-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battlefield 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/battlefield2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Thrilling online gameplay that's revolutionary at times.
 Built-in voice support is the next best thing to Xbox Live.
 The new squad and commander functions elevate the gameplay.
 Beautiful graphics and insane sound effects immerse you.
 The best military action game yet made.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Steep hardware requirements, long load times.
 No way to keep track of buddies.
 Clumsy server browser.
 No cooperative gameplay mode.
 Rebinding controls can be frustrating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 20, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 9.0, 68 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 25,651 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Digital Illusions
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Jun 21, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite the fact that it's a sequel, Battlefield 2 is a thrilling action game that immerses you 
 in the chaos of combat like never before. 

  There will be doubters and naysayers who will claim that Battlefield 2 is just an incremental upgrade 
 from its famous predecessors, or that it only offers a marginal improvement over the popular Desert 
 Combat mod for Battlefield 1942. Ignore them, because they couldn't be more wrong. EA and Digital 
 Illusions' cutting-edge and highly awaited sequel is everything that it's supposed to be and more. 
 Battlefield 2 is a thrilling testament to how great PC gaming can be. It packs unmatched gameplay, 
 impressive visuals, and endless replayability in one exquisite package. And it's, by far, the most 
 fun that we've had with a PC game this year.  

          Battlefield 2 elevates the excitement and action from its illustrious predecessors by making 
 you feel like part of an actual elite military squad in battle.     

  Contrary to its name, Battlefield 2 is actually the third game in the Battlefield series, and, 
 on the surface, it sticks closely to the formula established in the previous two games. In it, 
 two teams of up to 32 players each battle it out for supremacy on huge virtual battlefields, taking 
 the fight to one another on foot, in a vehicle, on sea, and in the air. This time around, though, 
 you'll have the opportunity to take modern weapons and equipment into the fray, as the game is 
 based in a near-future, hypothetical conflict that pits the forces of the United States, China, 
 and the fictional Middle Eastern Coalition in mortal combat with one another.  

  Strangely enough, Battlefield 2 ships with just one gameplay mode, but the conquest mode is what 
 made Battlefield what is today. Conquest is essentially a sprawling, king-of-the-hill-style game 
 with multiple control points (doubling as spawn points) scattered on the map. Each team gets a 
 limited number of tickets, or spawns, to draw upon in the battle for control of these points. The 
 winner is the side that can either capture all the control points and eliminate the opposing team 
 entirely, or whittle down the opposing team's tickets to zero. It's a fairly simple formula, but 
 it sets the stage for the wild and memorable virtual battles that take place.  

  The beauty of Battlefield 2 is the fact that, like its predecessors, it has a totally unpredictable 
 nature to it. It's completely unscripted and chaotic, but in an awesome way. There are simply so 
 many insane, over-the-top moments that can happen in a single game that you quickly lose track. 
 In any given match, you can have a dozen desperate firefights, countless moments when a rocket 
 or bullet whizzes by your head, and the proud sense of accomplishment when you and your squad overcome 
 the odds and achieve your objective. You'll see feats of audacious daring as someone flies a helicopter 
 through a city's streets or runs up to plant explosives on an enemy tank that's mowing down your 
 colleagues. You'll experience the hellish shelling of artillery, see the desperate revival of wounded 
 colleagues, and be killed a dozen grisly ways. And yet, through it all, you'll find yourself coming 
 back for more.  

  What makes Battlefield 2 better than its predecessors, though, is that there's much more of an 
 attempt to instill some method to this madness. Battlefield 2 is full of excellent new features 
 designed to make coordinating your efforts a lot easier. First up is the new voice-over IP system, 
 which means that real-time voice capability is built into every single copy of the game. There 
 simply is no excuse not to get a headset and start talking with your buddies, because even though 
 Battlefield 2 does offer an improved keyboard-based communications system, nothing beats the power 
 of being able to instantly and effortlessly communicate with your teammates. The voice system in 
 Battlefield 2 is simple to set up and use, and you no longer have to fiddle around with conflicting 
 third-party solutions.  

  More critically, it's the voice-chat system in Battlefield 2 that's important. Rather than have 
 64 players swamp a single channel with nonstop chatter and taunts, the voice system is instead 
 integrated heavily into the concept of a commander and squads, which are both new features in the 
 game. In earlier Battlefield games, you simply ran around as part of an unorganized mob, with little 
 coordination between players. Battlefield 2 solves this by letting you organize into squads that 
 come under the leadership of a single commander. In other words, a team of 32 players could split 
 up to potentially form five or six squads consisting of five to six players each, with one player 
 coordinating all the efforts as a commander. This fundamentally changes the nature of the game 
 from having a bunch of lone wolves running around to having coordinated combat teams working together 
 to get the job done.  

  Here's how it works. Armed with a real-time, top-down view of the battlefield, along with a number 
 of powerful abilities, the commander can keep an eye on the big picture. The commander can scan 
 the battlefield for enemy forces, deploy spy drones on the map that transmit data to all the members 
 of the team, air-drop supply crates that rearm and heal adjacent units, and drop powerful artillery 
 barrages onto enemy positions. The commander also issues orders to squad leaders, who have the 
 job of carrying the orders out. The squad is much more than a handful of players, thanks to the 
 potent squad abilities. Since you can spawn on your squad leader (so long as he is alive) , the 
 ability to create a sort of roving, self-supporting combat team is possible, especially if a team 
 has a medic or two to keep the squad on its feet. The voice-chat system automatically filters all 
 communication, so if you're in a squad, you can only talk with your fellow squad members. Squad 
 leaders can talk to their squad on one channel and use another channel to communicate with the 
 commander. And the commander can only talk to squad leaders. Thus, orders have a way of trickling 
 down the chain of command, while requests go up the chain from the squad leader to the commander 
 (like they do in real-life militaries) .  

          One of the great new features is the ability to keep a permanent character who gains rank 
 and medals over time. Rank gives you priority to be commander, while medals are simply cool to 
 collect.     

  When this system is clicking, it makes Battlefield 2 simply a transcendent experience unlike anything 
 we've experienced before. While other games have incorporated concepts such as squads and commanders, 
 none have combined them in such a brilliantly designed and executed way. The ability to only chat 
 with your squadmates can create a sort of instant personal camaraderie, even when the sound of 
 bullets, explosions, and artillery surrounds you. At times, you'll find yourself yelling for a 
 medic, telling a buddy to cover you while you sprint across an open patch, or quickly organizing 
 an impromptu assault on an enemy. It's so easy and tempting to fall into role-playing mode when 
 playing this game. We found moments when, as squad leader, we requested permission from the commander 
 to go after an enemy target. Or, when we were attacking an enemy control point, we screamed, "Go, 
 go, go," and the squad rushed in just moments after an artillery barrage softened the objective, 
 the dust from the explosions still thick in the air. The sensation that you're actually fighting 
 as a unit is simply immersive and gripping. In fact, the only thing missing is the ability to keep 
 some kind of friends or buddies list. This is something that you'll desperately want once you've 
 played with a great squad and want to play alongside them in future battles.     

  It's fair to note, however, that your online experience with Battlefield 2 is completely dependent 
 on the nature of your fellow players. And yes, it can be frustrating if you find yourself on a 
 team that doesn't organize into squads or doesn't work together. This frustration is doubled if 
 you find yourself facing a team that is organized and coordinated. With the powerful team tools 
 in the game, it's quite easy for a completely outnumbered but coordinated team to defeat a far 
 larger and unorganized force. The game does come with tools designed to get you familiar with the 
 controls, but you still rely on the willingness of your teammates to work together. If anything, 
 we wish for some kind of option that requires you to join a squad when you enter a game, and if 
 you fail to do this you'll be kicked off, since players who play outside the command and squad 
 system remain outside the loop. (The game could use a better auto-balancing system, as well, as 
 far too many matches become lopsided affairs because one team has twice as many players as the 
 other.)  

          Though you don't get to run around a lot as the commander, you can still inflict a lot 
 of damage upon the enemy by reporting enemy movements and raining artillery down on their heads. 
     

  Of course, all it takes are a handful of anarchic team killers to throw a wrench into your experience, 
 as well. In that case, you can try to vote someone off a server if he or she proves annoying enough, 
 or the server can boot players who team-kill too often. In addition, Battlefield 2 introduces the 
 concept of persistent identity. When you log onto Battlefield 2 for the first time, you'll create 
 a unique account that will follow you throughout your online adventures, keeping track of your 
 rank, your statistics, and much more. The better you play, the higher in rank you will rise, and 
 you can eventually unlock alternate weapons. A higher rank also means that you will be given higher 
 priority to assume the commander role in a match, so hopefully this will let the serious players 
 gain control of such a potent position.  

  We should note that Battlefield 2 keeps track of an astonishing number of statistics, such as the 
 number of kills you make with each weapon, your favorite kit, the map you play the most on, and 
 more. You can also collect dozens of different types of medals by doing certain tasks. Medics are 
 rewarded for reviving fallen soldiers, engineers are rewarded for repairing vehicles, and so on. 
 Collecting these medals proves to be a reward in and of itself. However, as much as we like this 
 system, we must admit that the game's main menu/server browser, where you access your personal 
 statistics, feels needlessly confusing at times. The server browser itself is slow and clunky, 
 which makes it annoying at times when you're trying to find a game. Since this is the third Battlefield 
 game, you'd expect that the designers would have figured out how to create a decent server browser 
 by now. Meanwhile, trying to rebind the many different keyboard settings can be like pulling teeth 
 at times, as you have to sort through different pages to unbind a key before you can bind it to 
 another command.  

  If you're not feeling like playing with fellow humans, the good news is that the much-maligned 
 bots from Battlefields 1942 and Vietnam are history. In those games, the computer-controlled bots 
 were just a hair better than brain-dead, but not by much (they literally ran in circles most of 
 the time) . The new bots in Battlefield 2 are relative Einsteins compared to the old ones, and while 
 they still make a few stupid errors every now and then, they can be downright ruthless and cunning. 
 We've seen bots do things that we wish human players would do. In one case, a bot in a tank actually 
 waited for infantry support before entering the crowded confines of an enemy village. In another, 
 the bots threw grenades onto the rooftop we were sniping from to flush us out. These bots will 
 also go after objectives with a vengeance. It's ironic that DICE nixed the cooperative gameplay 
 mode featured in earlier Battlefield games just when it finally developed decent bots. To be fair, 
 the bots can get confused, and we suspect that some maps may be too complex for their pathfinding, 
 as they tend to do better on maps with fewer natural choke points, such as bridges and rivers. 

  Battlefield 2 ships with 12 levels, and while that seems like a small number, the fact that each 
 level comes in three different sizes adds some variety. The nature of the game can change dramatically 
 depending on the size of the map and the number of players involved. Small, 16-player games on 
 the smallest map offer a Counter-Strike-like atmosphere, with a limited number of control points 
 and a few vehicles. The 32- and 64-player maps are downright huge in comparison, and they offer 
 plenty of room to maneuver around. The level design itself has evolved quite a bit from earlier 
 games, as the designers have eliminated the huge distances that separated control points. These 
 new levels are an interesting mix of different settings, including cities, mountains, valleys, 
 and swamps. They're also packed with all sorts of specific, distinct areas, such as villages, hotels, 
 construction areas, oil refineries, and more.  

          Yes, attack helicopters can ruin your day, but instead of whining about it, you should 
 find antiaircraft defenses, or jump in a helicopter or fighter, and shoot them down.     

  There are seven different kits, or basically character class types, to play as in Battlefield 2, 
 and these kits are essentially identical across all three nations. There aren't the weird variations 
 that occurred in Battlefield Vietnam, where the US engineer kit would get completely different 
 weapon types from the North Vietnamese engineer kit. And for the most part, the kits are fairly 
 well balanced. There's no superkit (like the M-60/LAW combination in Vietnam) this time around. 
 And while there will be advocates for and against certain kits, the balance on a whole is excellent 
 right out of the gate for Battlefield 2. For example, the support kit seems a bit overpowering 
 at first, since it gets a light machine gun capable of firing long bursts from huge magazines, 
 but it is tempered by the fact that it's only suitable at short and medium ranges. Try to engage 
 anyone from a long distance, and they'll simply drop down and snipe you with carefully aimed shots. 
 The sniper kit, usually the most overpowering weapon in these kinds of games, no longer features 
 a one-shot, one-kill capability. However, this relegates snipers to their proper (and accurate) 
 role of supporting the infantry and reporting the location of enemy units and vehicles.  

  There's a definite rock-paper-scissors nature to the different kits. The special forces kit is 
 ideal for planting plastic explosive charges and destroying enemy infrastructure, from bridge crossings 
 to radar stations that allow enemy commanders to conduct satellite scans of the battlefield. In 
 fact, for balancing purposes, it's the only kit able to really do so effectively. Blow up enemy 
 artillery, and the enemy commander can't drop artillery barrages on your team's head until the 
 guns are repaired. The engineer kit can repair such damage and patch up vehicles, and so engineers 
 are worth their weight in gold. Meanwhile, the engineer and medic kits are even more powerful than 
 ever by being able to project an area-of-affect radius around them if they're riding in a vehicle, 
 which is a big incentive for players to take up support roles in a game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1269 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 14, 2009 11:23 am PT
Review:  First off the game is very very good' dont get me wrong. If not one of the best online shooters 
 out there even in todays market the game still holds up. But spite all of that the game i belive 
 the game has its issues that ruin it for me. But they really don't ruin what the game is and that 
 is a great online shooter whats fun to play.
  
  The first thing i hate about any game is the appearence of snipers. To me they ruin the game they 
 they make being a infantry class a pain in the butt and on large open maps be ready to be killed 
 in less than 3 minutes by one of these guys.
  
  Aircraft this doesn't include helicopters by the way. Aircraft are overpowered once again you spawn 
 at a Control point and 2 seconds later you find yourself dead. which is a shame because trying 
 to get into one of these is a pain to begin with since most games people just camp at the planes 
 to get into it.
  
  Aircraft on most maps make driving a vechicle a pain. Because at some point you'll get yourself 
 a new Jeep or a tank to drive only to find your self dead once again by the aircraft and there 
 heat seeking missiles of doom.
  
  Thankfully the game has Anti-air defence's inplace but once again going on these is basicly a death-trap 
 because snipers love to shoot you if your on them. 
  
  And if that isn't bad spawning and then getting run over by your own teammates is just as annoying. 
 The game features a class mechanc with several classes to play as. Medics can heal, Anti tank class 
 has a rocket launcher and so forth so theres a counter to everything but it really doesnt help. 
 The graphics are good and if you have a good pc nowadays then you should be able to play the game 
 maxed out and it does look good even by todays standards.
  
  The game is a good effot and a very very solid Multiplayer game but i think the game would be better 
 off without snipers and aircraft. Since they make most of the otherstuff like Air transports just 
 plane cannon fodder.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spy_magnum
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2009 7:34 am PT
Review:  One of the most amazing games ever created.
  Many options in the battlefield such as a very nice variety of weapons and vehicles  
 and even boats) .
  The multiplayer section is the best. In a single game 64 players are able to play together. Also 
 the variety of the maps is very good while you are able to choose the same map in 3 different sizes 
 depending on the players (16,32 and 64) . You may choose depending on the maps the Chinese or the 
 MEC force and the US.
  Furthermore many expansion packs are created for this game such as Battlefield 2: Euro Force , 
 Battlefield 2: Special Forces and and Battlefield 2: Armored Fury.
  This is the ultimate game for a person who likes multiplayer and first person shooter games.
 
  The only I really promise is that you will never get bored playing this game.
  If you are a "first person shooter game" lover you have to play this game!
  BF2 4 ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fengo7890
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 5:14 am PT
Review:  Ok let me start it of with the good news. 1 This game has not the best the best but good graphics. 
 2 This game has some sweet weapons and plus you can unlock better guns like my fave the P90 and 
 the 50. caliber sniper rifle.
  3 The vehicles in the game are good but not the best, i recommend the dune buggy. 4 The ability 
 to be commander is cool because of the suite satellite view and the spawning vehicles button. 5 
 The game has amazing multi player
  like serioulsy, but it doesnt let me on anymore because "Corrupt Packet Flow." 6 The maps are pretty 
 good.
  
  Time for the bad news. 1 What the heck is up with the blood you shoot someone and dust comes out 
 of them. 2 There is no campaign whatsoever. 
  3 there are minimal teams to play as. 
  
  That it for the bad news. Dont forget to download mods from Gamestop. com
  
  And remember its 
 worth buying.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonyllama69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 11:52 am PT
Review:  This game is still played by countless no. s of people all over the world, who i think would LOVE 
 A BATTLEFIELD 4!! Imagine that! counterstrike's ability to use bots, the always battlefield "using 
 vehicles", the ranking style's of call of duty?! IMAGINE!!
  
  that i would buy in a heart beat!! IMAGINE!! all these developers, come together o create the worlds 
 first super game!! a R2 000 game that would blow minds every one who's anyone would buy it!! it 
 would bring together every fps player in the world! IMAGINE all those servers!! Well point made 
 i love Battlefield 2!! I WANT no NEED a battlefield 4!!
  
  Regards TO ALL MY GAMERS FROM S. A.
  
  The only problem i have with the game is, unlike counterstrike 
 no bot's can be added? on such huge maps... if you and one bud are playing this game, you play 
 for hours because you'll never find one another! these servers can take up till 64 players thats 
 a huge map! I want bots, and the abillity to play more than 4 maps over and over!! i would like 
 the ammount of maps to be the added ammount of counterstrike, call of duty and battlefields two 
 or maybe three maps!! ya great online there are maps, but none for us even after the game's release 
 : June 21st 2005!! i would like more updates and maps!! Thank You!
  
  RegardsJonathan Green 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OttoNL
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 15, 2009 8:16 am PT
Review:  Fun game, for it's time, great game, nice physics, many options, but too unbalanced and too many 
 retards online.
  First of all, try to find a server where people actually try and do some teamwork, maybe some clan 
 servers, but there they won't help you because they only help their friends. Then try to survive 
 for a minute on a 64 server that has 5 choppers and 2 planes all on the same houseblock, the block 
 where you happen to spawn. And then there is the movement, i don't know what or who made it, but 
 he probably had no legs because it feels like i'm cruising in my wheelchair, I walk like 2 miles 
 an hour, realistic but it's never been any good in a war game, I can't strafe smoothly, oh yeah 
 and before I forget, what the hell is up with the aiming in this game. In BF 42 you would aim at 
 something and you would hit it, okay that might not be realistic but this is just crap.
  If I get the sniper rifle, have been laying perfectly still for a minute, and have my crosshair 
 exctly in the center of an enemy that is only 25 meters away, i expect to hit it. Okay, you might 
 miss once, but three times while aiming perfectly?
  Nope, immediately returned it to the store, playing with bots is more fun because they miss aswell.
 
  Don't think im some noob that has never played wargames before, i play many games and i have a 
 above average aim, but it won't hit ****.
  The game itself gets a 6, but the people that play it bring it down to a 4.
  
  Enemy Territory 
 Quake Wars feels a bit like this game, but all flaws i mentioned here are fixed, no inbalances, 
 good players that actually do some teamwork, you actually hit stuff and the movement feels great 
 like in all Quake games, i'll just keep playing on Quake engines... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pk86
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Tired of WW games? Then you should try this one. On battlefield 2 you have access to all kind of 
 modern weaponary that is used nowadays in war.
  The graphics are really good, not stuning, but good enough. 
  The AI is a little bit stupid. 
 Most of the times the vehicles they use pass over you (the bots still say "Sorry" at least) . The 
 aerial units won't wait for you either you call them while they haven't turned on the engines.
 
  The gameplay control is really confy. The weapons are very well designed and balanced.
  If you really want to have the full exitment of this game, you have to play the multiplayer modes. 
 Massives maps with up to 68 players bring you an experience never seen before with technology of 
 this scale.
  The ranks brings you a more reallistic sense of battle. If you have the fortune of being the commander 
 you can set UAV sattelites and even call for artillery so as your captains will be able to ask 
 for.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevinmaxtor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 7:16 pm PT
Review:  BF2, is the game to play, ever since 2005 when DICE and EA gave us this this glory of a game, hundreds 
 and thousands of people have been pouring countless hours into this game =) . It's just a work of 
 art, a step up from 1942, but not over doing it, ranking system and unlocks keep you motivated 
 in the game, The game play is just first class, and everything about it makes every other BF game 
 out there lame, this game, I would say would be right up there with COD4 and Halo 3 on it's multilayer, 
 there is just so much to explore in the game, the weapons, vehicles, and maps, none feel over powered 
 and there's countless mods to bring the game to a new level and bring more value out of it, this 
 game encourages teamwork, so go play counter-strike if you want all the kills to yourself. If your 
 still looking for that killer online player app, Battle Field 2 is the game to get for your PC. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kro_429
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Some might argue that BF2142 is better, however, with some questionable vehicles and security device 
 issues I believe that Battlefield 2 still stands as the best in the series. Battlefield has always 
 stood as a major benchmark in the online gaming industry and with 128 man servers and some of the 
 best vehicle combat around there is no question why.
  
  Even years after its release Battlefield 2 has adequate looking graphics. Your surroundings don't 
 necessarily come to life like in CoD4, but the vehicles and player models are always outstanding 
 to look at. The sound is fantastic and the music reminds you of the good old days on BF1942.
  
  The gameplay is good, although there are some issues. While BF was the first to create such 
 a fantastic ranking system, it definitely lacks originality and overall 'coolness' in the unlockable 
 weapons. The badges and medals are a nice addition and the enormous length of time it takes to 
 get promoted adds an actual feeling of power to being a general. Classes are somewhat limited and 
 don't add much diversity to the game. Hit detection is fairly good, although the sniper class tends 
 to feel underpowered in many maps. The squads and commander role are a nice addition, however more 
 often than not it's just a way for one player to get free artillery strikes and supply drops.
 
  
  Overall, Battlefield 2 is a classic. It expands on an excellent formula created in the first and 
 while it won't immerse you like many other games, it'll provide many solid hours of fun. Plus, 
 flying helicopters absolutely rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpstar12345
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  QUITE POSSIBLY THE BEST MULTIPLAYER EXPERIENCE EVER. 
  If you've never played this game's deep, exciting, and engaing multiplayer experience... you really 
 don't know what you've missed.
  
  This game was by far the best game of it's time. It's now 2009 and I still have not experienced 
 the magic that is BF2. Realizing how special of a game it is, I had to do probably the all so late 
 review on it. 
  
  Grahics: 10 for it's time
  Gameplay: 10+
  Fun Factor: 10+
  Depth: 10+
  Multiplayer 10+
  Replay Value 10+
  TRUE VALUE:
  750+ hours / $50 ~ $.06 per 
 entertaiment hour!!!! Can't beat that :)
  
  
  There is nothing that I can say that can truely express how amazing this game really was. Before 
 this game was released, I was playing MOH Spearhead religiously for at least 3 hours a night and 
 more on the weekends... Speahead was an amazing game in it's own right and I played it for about 
 1 year or more straight, none stop... 
  
  Then BF2 came out... Everyone that I asked to try this game quit Spearhead COLD TURKEY!!! Now that's 
 saying something. It wasn't a vacation from Spearhead (like GTA4 and MGS4 was a vacation from COD4) , 
 it was a permanent break up!!!
  
  COD4 is great in its own right but the multiplayer experience is not nearly as deep as BF2.
  
 
  It's a shame that EA purchased DICE and closed down some of it's offices in CANADA. I think they 
 lost a lot of great programmers, designers, testers, etc...
  
  I was so excited when Bad Company came out but it was truely a let down. I predicted that the game 
 would be in the bargain bin at GameStop within 3 or 4 months and yep!!!! So true... 
  
  Battlefield 3 is likely going to come out late this year or early next year but my expections for 
 BF3 will be low because I believe that EA is going to mess it.... AGAIN...
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cub1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 11:14 am PT
Review:  I bought this game when it first appeared, liked it, but over the years other simular games took 
 my attention, and i ended up trading it in. Searching the internet for Fallout 3 mods, i was suprised 
 at how many mods are availble for Battlefield 2. So i bought another 2 copies, so i could play 
 with my son over a lan and we have downloaded around 6 mods for it which improve the game considerably. 
 Check out the Battlefield tab on Fileplanets homepage, there are plenty of multiplayer and singleplayer 
 mods on that site. Allied Intent Extended, Forgotten Hope 2 to name but two.
  The best mod out there at present is theProject Realitymod, which forces you to join squads 
 and encourages teamwork, so much so that real soldiers use it for training.
  Check BF2 out - Its now worth it. Pete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazymonkey79
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 14, 2009 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 Is one of the worst games ive ever played. it is very very boring. the graphics suck. 
 The only good thing about this game is multiplayer. This game has no single player at all if you 
 go on single player its exactly like multiplayer exept way less maps and playing with a bunch of 
 AIs instead of people. IT is realy boring because you have to hunt down people instead of there 
 just being a huge battle. Multiplayer is gay because the server will randomly boot you for no reason. it 
 takes like 30 seconds for you to respawn and sometimes a medic can save you but people never be 
 medics and AIs will never come. you choose a class and you get 1 weapon and a pistol and some support 
 crap thats useless. There is only one game mode and its like capture the flag. Most of the time 
 any enimies will take all the vehicles and just attack you in a tank or some other vehicle. If 
 you want one of the worst games of all time buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhl_guy11
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  Well I played this in university over the Lan. War games are always fun for this because you can 
 take sides, play together and find your way of playing. It is quite nice for large multiplier games. 
 I have 5.1 audio which is a lot of fun when set up correctly, and the graphics are good enough 
 so they can run on any system, but still fulfill many. The different classes you can play as is 
 nice, everyone you play with seems to find their touch in one class or another. the levels on multiplayer 
 have a large range. From small levels to big levels they seem to have them all. I enjoy good first 
 person shooters and that is pretty much what this game is. I would recommend this game and this 
 series. I have spent alot of time playing them, and really can not wait for the next title in the 
 series to come out with the higher graphics and updated perks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_trazz
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Bf2 
  has a totally unpredictable nature to it. It's completely unscripted and chaotic, but in an awesome 
 way. There are simply so many insane, over-the-top moments that can happen in a single game that 
 you quickly lose track. In any given match, you can have a dozen desperate firefights, countless 
 moments when a rocket or bullet whizzes by your head, and the proud sense of accomplishment when 
 you and your squad overcome the odds and achieve your objective. You'll see feats of audacious 
 daring as someone flies a helicopter through a city's streets or runs up to plant explosives on 
 an enemy tank that's mowing down your colleagues. You'll experience the hellish shelling of artillery, 
 see the desperate revival of wounded colleagues, and be killed a dozen grisly ways. And yet, through 
 it all, you'll find yourself coming back for more, own or be owned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rovelius
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 24, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Over a year ago, my friend gave me his copy of BattleField 2. Back then, his computer couldn't 
 handle it. Well, I'm glad to say today that I'm ready to give it back to him. After countless hours 
 of raw frustration, I'm ready to write a review - or is it more of a rant?
  
  First of all, you may run into many problems when trying to simply install the game and get it 
 running fine. You'll have to start by installing vanilla BF2 off your CDs, which takes way too 
 much time compared to similar games (for example, installing Counter-Strike Source from 4 CDs takes 
 only 7~8 minutes) . Once this is done, you'll have to apply various patches, depending on which 
 expansions you have. And let me tell you this : this game's patches are some of the worst I saw 
 yet. If, like me, you only have BattleField 2 (no expansion whatsoever) , you'll have only one patch 
 to do. The accursed 1.41 patch (at the time of writing this, though I doubt any more patch will 
 ever get released) . 
  
  Upon execution of the .exe file, it would either crash my PC or simply close itself. Successfully 
 patching this game took me a whole 3 FREAKING DAYS. And I'm not talking about simply posting a 
 ''omg help me plz im such a noob and don't know *** about PCs plzzzzzz heeeeelp'' topic on any 
 kind of forum. I'm talking about using the Registry Editor in conjunction with Safe Mode. I had 
 to disable my antivirus, firewall, re-install the game off the CDs 7 times in My Documents (to 
 avoid any kind of admin problems) and restart my PC countless times. Thankfully, after many headaches 
 and cussing, I was finally able to find a working combination of settings. We're not supposed to 
 go through all of this only to apply a patch, though, this is ridiculous. Also, good luck if you 
 have expansions. You'll have to apply 4 to 5 patches like this in a seemingly random order and 
 chances are high you'll encounter similar problems, judging from the countless help topics on the 
 BattleField 2 forums.
  
  Once all of this was said and done, I booted up the game, expecting to finally enjoy one of the 
 highest rated FPS in history. How very wrong.
  
  It took two days for EA's server to create and let me log in my account. Secondly, game crashes 
 were very frequent. The graphics were HEAVILY messed up. Huge black circles all over the ground, 
 dynamic shadows from models were too big (Once, I was in a jet at Oman and I saw a huge tank's 
 shadow covering almost the whole map) , textures would also be applied on the wrong models (I saw 
 an officer's medal being drawn on buildings in Karkand) ... I later discovered it was related to 
 a driver conflict with my graphic card - however, this conflict was happenning because of BattleField 
 2, and not my GPU. I had to download a fix from NVIDIA in order to patch this.
  
  There's another problem which apparently is even more common than crash to desktops and weird visuals 
 - getting kicked out from servers because of Punkbuster, the game's anti-cheating software. I never 
 got kicked out of a server, not even once. My friends, however, keep getting kicked for no reason 
 (even if they updated the hell out of Punkbuster and disable every kind of firewall and security 
 app) . I really can't say anything more than report this additional problem though, as it never 
 happenned to me.
  
  After the game itself would FINALLY run without any kind of glitch, I started enjoying the actual 
 game. And I hapenned to be part of the few players who - nobody still knows why this happens - 
 is having serious problems with this game's hit boxes. Here are some examples of what I've encountered 
 so far :
  
  -10 headshots with ANY kind of sniper would never kill anything
  -Trying to knife someone was hopeless
  -Any kind of bullets shot by me would simply never reach 
 its target, even if they were tanks
  -Same goes for rockets with the Anti-Tank kit
  -Almost each time I tried zooming with a assault rifle/sniper, the camera would start going crazy 
 in every directions
  -And MUCH, MUCH, MUCH more
  
  I'll also have to add these additional lines from GS user ''mark30001'''s review of the very same 
 game where he says shooting enemies only make dust come out. That's basically what happens everytimes 
 I try to kill anyone. He also points how annoying shooting on bunnyhopping and dolphin diving players 
 is... and that's kinda true, too. It does hurt the game's realism a bit, would you see the U. S. 
 Army training their soldiers in jumping around like idiots in real life? Ah well, it's just a game.
 
  
  BattleField 2 would totally rock if it wasn't for all of these problems, though. The core gameplay 
 is one of the most complex and thrilling I saw in any FPS to date. You really get the feeling of 
 being on an intense battlefield - hence the name - thanks to the Commander's assets, vehicular 
 carnage, insane teamwork, stat tracking and fast-paced action. The graphics help a lot, too - textures 
 are very crisp, particle effects are very well moderated (no exaggerated explosions) , everything 
 has Dynamic Lights, fog is perfect, there's a lot of very well-drawn shadow and the animations 
 are simply the best I saw yet. The only problem concerning graphics is about the clipping distance... 
 you won't notice on foot, but if, for example, you're in a jet, you won't have to fly very high 
 to see how close is the clipping. Continue flying straight up and you'll soon be stuck out of bounds 
 with a rather disorienting skybox.
  
  The sound effects, when turned on High, furthermore expands that feeling of being on a real battlefield. 
 Hear a grenade blow up next to you and all sounds will go away or get distorted. You'll hear pretty 
 much every directions where sounds come from, too, like grenades, gunshots, artillery strikes or 
 a tank slowly passing by. You'll also hear the artillery strikes swooshing down from the sky and 
 blowing up, reducing everything to ashes, no matter where you are on the map. Sound is a very high 
 factor of atmosphere in BattleField 2.
  
  Really, it's such a shame that I couldn't fully enjoy this amazing game. I guess I was just very, 
 very unlucky with this one.
  
  BOTTOM LINE
  
  Pros :
  -Incredible graphics, sounds and gameplay completely recreates the feeling of being on a battlefield 
 where every single nook and crannies can hide another enemy.
  -Loads of different weapons make for a varied experience every times you play with a different 
 Kit.
  -Vehicles with EXCELLENT control.
  -Onboard VoiceChat support through microphone makes Squads insanely fun with friends - plan the 
 capture of a base, alert enemy formations approaching, anything you want.
  -Very advanced stat tracking makes you coming back for more.
  
  Cons :
  -EA support stinks 
 as it always did : after so many patches, they still weren't able to fix most problems who've been 
 around since vanilla.
  -Buying this game is more of a gamble : you'll have to be lucky to have it working 100% the way 
 it's meant to be.
  -Because of the huge number of people also having problems with the hit boxes, a lot of players 
 decide to simply use only grenades - just be prepared to have them getting off all over a map when 
 you choose an Infantry server (no vehicles) , something which gets rather annoying after a while.
 
  
  I have no choice but to give this game a 4/10 because of all the problems I ran into when trying 
 to simply PLAY it.
  If I hadn't run into so many issues, however, I'd probably give it twice more than what I am giving 
 it right now. Gotta love EA, eh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saurum
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 was amazing. Why don't buy Battlefield 2? It's modern, new guns, new scenarios, 
 etc. First impressions are great: the aiming system is way better than BF 1942, great graphics, 
 wow amzing game. BF 1942 had a epic campaign mode, wich i spent several weeks on to finish. I expected 
 BF 2 to had a similar mode. It don't have. Damn, i miss campaign a lot. Ok, but online mode really 
 rocks. If you have fast inetrnet an pacience, give a try. The best online FPS i've played so far! 
 Also, the new communication system it's much better than BF1942. The possibility of making and 
 joinning squads also are good features.
  
  Pros and Cons
  + Guns
  + Multiplayer (online) mode
  + Graphics
  + Communication System ( Q and T key)
  + Squad System
 
  - - - Singleplayer Sucks
  - Long Rounds ( takes you a long time to finish rounds...)
  
  Worth: Playing? Yes Buying? Yes
  Approved! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark30001
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 29, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  What happens when you shoot someone with a gun? Dust comes out. Well that's the case with this 
 game. The hit detection sucks badly in this game, you can shoot someone in the head, and they will 
 still walk away alive, WTF, when I shoot someone in the head with a rifle, i expect them to die 
 2 times, not walk away as if nothing ever happend. People love to hog jets and gather points with 
 them, so they can brag about their rank and false skill. Flying a jet is horrible and impossible 
 if you dont have a joystick, why make it fun for people who own a joystick? Why not make it fun 
 for everyone and allow everyone to have a chance to fly the jet, if jets are going to be the main 
 point of the game. Artillery can get annoying sometimes, as can claymore, which magically cannot 
 be blow up with a grenade, or a tank for that matter. Once again they implenmented a broken hit 
 detection which means you can shoot someone point blank and they still wont die unless you shoot 
 them a certain way, thats like making a rts game with a broken cursor. Everyone online bunnyhops 
 and dophin dives, because they're afraid that if they stand and aim like they would do in reallife, 
 they're gona get owned. I dont find it fun trying to aim at a hopping soilder thats able to jump 
 like 4 feet off the ground. Engine is buggy, login is buggy, server selection is buggy, long loads, 
 just horrible. I also have to mention how if you shoot a rocket at someone ususally the rocket 
 goes through the person LOL, which is stupid. People are not the only thing rockets go through, 
 sometimes when aiming at a speeding car coming your way, a rocket you shoot at it will go through 
 it. Its impossible for someone to know if someone is hacking, due to the way everyone moves and 
 shoots. Everything is so stiff, all movements. There are also many more things wrong with this 
 game im not even going to mention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perth2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  I own BF2 Deluxe Edition (with Special Forces MOD) and BFV of the Battlefield series. Came to these 
 games late (after COD, MOH, Rainbow Six, Brother in Arms and Delta Force/Joint Operations) . 
  
  Generally, I do prefer single player story driven FPS (like those mentioned above) . BF2 is 
 essentially a take and/or defend bases (flags) game and can get rather tedious ... though it feelds 
 good when you succeed. A definite plus is you can play for either side/faction, something COD and 
 MOH do not let you do.
  
  BF2 has loads of MODS and MAPS available, including here at Gamespot. I thoroughly recommend the 
 recent release of "Eve of Destruction" (EoD) , which covers various engagements (real and imagined) 
 in the various Indo-China/Vietnam wars. It is superior in feel to BFV in its variety of scenarios, 
 if not the mood setting music which BFV has in spades. BTW, I have recently purchased "Men of Valor" 
 which seems to be one of the "best" Vietnam games ... albeit the demo seemed close to MOH.
  
  Another MOD worth looking at is "Nations at War" (NAW) which follows the basic premise of the 
 basic BF2 whereby NATO (US and its allies) takes on what GW Bush would call the "Axis of Evil" 
 (Islamists, North Koreans, Taliban, etc plus China) .
  
  Graphics-wise BF2 is closer to Delta Force/Joint Operations than COD or Rainbow Six. The "EoD" 
 MOD renders the junglesof Vietnam very well.
  
  Gameplay is OK ... but the large number of air, land and see transport available make re-assigning 
 control buttons (closer to the more intuitive Delta Force style defaults I prefer) difficult. 
 
  
  Would still prefer an infantry driven "storyline" though understand this is primarily designed 
 a multiplayer game with the ability to drive/pilot and skipper a vast array of machines.
  
  OVERALL: Still getting into BF2 (and BFV) and its various MODS ... so my rating and thoughts are 
 preliminary. But to be honest it IS growing on me!
  
  Since the above have played several hours of NAW and EoD and have moved rating up from 8.0 to 8.5 
 on par with Delta Force/Joint Operations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajwall4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  I just wanted to enter this review to point out that there has been no improvement over Battlefield 
 2 in the multiplayer tactical shooter genre. Other games, including Bad Company, have improved 
 in some areas, but Battlefield 2 is still the best. I really like Bad Company, and I enjoy the 
 graphics and destructible environments, but it lacks strategy and it nerfs some of the player skills. 
 For instance in BF2, you have to manually spot incoming enemy forces and in Bad Company, it just 
 does it for you. If you see an enemy, it reports it to everyone else. In BC you can't choose what 
 squad to join, but in BF2, you have total control over your squad and picking objectives. You and 
 five friends can enter a game of up to 64 players and feel as though you have a major impact on 
 the overall battle, and you can take pride in your effectiveness through multiple benchmarks. It's 
 really a lot of fun, and I await a game that combines the destructible environments and graphical 
 improvements of Bad Company with the serious tactical/team play sandbox of Battlefield 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medman00
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Still playin this game! So fun. Although this is a 2006 game and the graffics are so so (and sometimes 
 you get really weird glitches) , this game still is so great just for the need to kill that other 
 guy that keeps shooting you in the head! Too bad though that Dice had to make 2142 and ruin the 
 whole thing, its just not as fun as bf2.... maybe because the maps are so big and you have to use 
 vehicles. Where in Bf2 theres mainly just city streets and no need to fly a plane everywhere. Anyway 
 great game and suggest getting this game now if you dont have it. Although one downside is that 
 there always over 600 servers online and only about 40 have people playing them (which half of them 
 are Strike at Karkand) ... so thats pretty darn irritating. In the end this isnt one of those games 
 you buy, beat, stop playing, beat again, and then forget about. Its just endlessly fun (at least 
 to me) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben_Sim
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  Like what i wrote in the title, this game is absolutely incredible. Considering that it is sequel 
 to all the previous battlefield series. This game ROCKS BIG-TIME!!. The graphic is just part of 
 it, the physics of all the animation/explosion and the audio expect is great. Combining all these 
 factors, you get good graphics, realistic physics and great sound effect. 
  
  Graphic, Sound and Physics. This factors are essential to make a great game. Other titles, may have 
 overlooked at sounds or physics. But from this game, you could feel the hard work of the game developer, 
 perfecting in every aspect.
  
  I like the part of the game of not making it too graphical/gruesome which allow wide variety of 
 age groups to play this awesome game.
  
  This game has set a very very high benchmark for other game developers making Tactical FPS. Even 
 EA themselves, are doubtful of making another battlefield (maybe due to such perfection of the 
 game) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty_12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  battle field 2 is a first person shooter that takes you to various places in the wold to fight 
 the bad guys.
  but it lacks a single player storymode shure you can click single player select a dificulty and 
 a map and shoot all the bots you want but thats not very fun
  
  now onto multyplayer ok so in multiplayer you run around/drive around and shoot people the bad 
 thing is theres tanks now since is is conquest you have to capture a flag witch means it flashed 
 on the map when its bieng capped thar means the people in the tankidy tanks shoot one bullet and 
 your all dead 
  
  also unless your a really high level and have all the good weapons youdont stand a chance un less 
 there healths low beacuse it takes about 2 mags to kill somebody and when u finally do there probably 
 a medic waiting 2 revive him i give this game an 8.5 beacuse it is a good game in most aspects 
 espesially the infantry only servers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: millerman_jr
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  I like this game but personally I think that there could be more single-player maps. The single-player 
 game play needs to be looked at in various areas. For Example, when you are leading a squad they 
 tend to not listen to your orders, or acknowledge them then stand around doing nothing. Still, 
 multiplayer is SO fun, receiving other people's comments just after you blew their APC is always 
 a laugh. The options of 16, 32 and 64 player maps is good even though the sizes of the maps grow 
 you can still get the close up carnage that every FPS lover enjoys. If you own a computer and consider 
 yourself to be a FPS nut, then buy this game!!!! :) I like this game but personally I think that 
 there could be more single-player maps. The single-player game play needs to be looked at in various 
 areas. For Example, when you are leading a squad they tend to not listen to your orders, or acknowledge 
 them then stand around doing nothing. I think that more AI players should be able to play, expanding 
 the game play into more levels of fun. Although the AI have their flaws, you can never ever tire 
 of watching the enemy walk straight into your cleverly (if not obviously) placed C4 trap. Also, 
 multiplayer is bundles of fun, receiving other people's comments just after you blew their APC 
 is always a laugh. The options of 16, 32 and 64 player maps is good even though the sizes of the 
 maps grow you can still get the close up carnage that every FPS lover enjoys. The expansion packs 
 open up new maps and vehicles to enhance the Battlefield experience.
  If you own a computer and consider yourself to be a FPS nut, then buy this game!!!! :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: homsta
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Anybody who has ever played an online game before like the Unreal Tournament series or W. O. W. will 
 know how fun they are not only because of the graphics and gameplay but also because the ability 
 to play against other people around the world, and this game is no different. In fact this is one 
 of the best games ever because of all the things possible in the game. With the ability to have 
 as many as 64 real people around the world fighting together or against each other on the same 
 map can be quite exciting as you and your team fight others with bullets litterally coming from 
 every direction. Of course if you don't have online capabilities the game is still fun on single 
 player mode, but to fully enjoy this game i recommend playing online. The graphics are amazing 
 and the only drawback is there isn't really any blood when you shoot someone, and also this game 
 only works with Nvidia graphics series 6 and up. What also makes this game amazing is the different 
 ways you can around fighting everyone, whether it be by land, sea, or air. Being able to get into 
 a tank mow down your enemies is quite satisfying knowing that you have just P Oed someone around 
 in the world. All in all this game is quite fun and is recommended to anybody who enjoys online 
 games and a great FPS all in one, just make sure you have a good graphics card first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  The core Battlefield game is still the same: it's a first-person shooter with land, sea, and air 
 vehicles where two teams compete over key points on the map. The action is fast-paced, and while 
 realistic weapons and locations are featured, fun always takes precedence over simulation.
  
  Here's what's new: Battlefield 2 features an all-new graphics engine allowing for huge maps 
 riddled with detail at every level. This time around the emphasis isn't on WWII or Vietnam but 
 on modern warfare, with all the insane hardware you'd see on a contemporary battlefield. (There 
 are three factions: the U. S., the fictional "Middle East Coalition," and the People's Liberation 
 Army of China.) BF2 also brings to the table a complete integrated stats package, tracking your 
 individual profile persistently online. Teamplay is kicked up a notch, with integrated tools to 
 divide players into squads with their own missions, and a scoring system that provides big rewards 
 for players who support teammates with medical aid, ammo, or repairs. 
  
  The maps in Battlefield 2 are huge, depicting detailed environments in potential hotspots around 
 the world (divided between the Middle East and China.) There are 12 maps in total, but each one 
 comes in three sizes, suitable for 16, 32, or 64 players. Gameplay can be radically different in 
 each (especially in the small 16-player versions) , so the 12 maps feel like a lot more. For example: 
 the 16-player version of the FuShe Pass map (see our overview of all the maps) has three bases 
 in question, with furious fighting over a base in the middle of a river. The 32-player version 
 has the same location, but it opens up the action to fight along both coasts of the river valley. 
 And if you fire up the 64-player version, the entirety of the valley and its network of bridges 
 is up for grabs, with both teams striking out from enormous airbases. 
  
  Unlike Battlefield 1942, the maps can get quite complicated. Roads will wind up steep ridges, or 
 networks of rivers will be criss-crossed by bridges and fords. As a result, it's not always a straight 
 shot to get to the flag: you'll need to spend some time learning the ins and outs and quirks of 
 each location. But once you do get to learn the maps, there's a particular brilliance in the design. 
 Most maps have natural chokepoints to defend or particular strategies that the terrain encourages. 
 Some maps are all about ground forces, some involve infantry skirmishes in tight city streets, 
 and some benefit from lots of air power -- there's both strategy and variety in the locations. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwnp
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  i love this game                                        
               
 writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We 
 encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later on, 
 but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you 
 to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  Scoring: When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words 
 minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit 
 it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We 
 encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, 
 then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  Scoring: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alarausibun
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  first of all when you enter in the game you see a well built introduction movie where for each 
 unit there is one more powerfull than the first one.... anyway there is no such a god unit or the 
 best ever seen... i have a friend who plays only on helicopters, he is damn good but i like take 
 him down with an abrams M1  :) anyway the bad thing about BF2 is: long loading times, lack of singleplayer 
 where you battle in various missions, it could be done but... i don't know.. anyway, i dislike the 
 way soldiers are falling whe they are killed our crtitically wounded-they look like crash test 
 dummies, that's not how a human body falls down, the soldiers in world in conflict fall better :D 
 anyway, in my circle of friends we gave up counter strike, battlefield 2 is the master!
  overall good game, realistic gun sounds, impresive sound, low resource consumer and... worth playin`
 
  enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aires457
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  BattleField 2 for The PC was outstandingly fun. The online multiplayer got kind of chaotic and 
 not the good kind of chaotic (like being with two girls at once) the bad kind of chaotic (like 
 being lost in a crowd of rapers) . The singleplayer was fun but got bit repetitive. Now playing 
 with someone on LAN was the best part of the game. I love playing battlefield with my brother against 
 NPCs because we can talk to each other in the same room and we can experiment and try cool stunts 
 like when my brother was flying a helicopter and I was in the passenger seat and h=he flew close 
 enough to a guys and I shot a missile in his face at point blank. Or when we were fighting each 
 other one on one and I ran him over with a jet plane 0.0. I would only recommend getting this game 
 if you have a brother or sister or dad to play it with on LAN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fima1fim
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  i never stop play'n this game (only when need to sleep, go scool etc.) at any server theres alot 
 of fun you can team speak with members tell them tactics/strategys and stuff!
  Fantastic multiplayer means you can be a sniper picking off the enemies or be a assault man mowing 
 down enemies with a light machine gun and still have as much fun.
  
  The violence level is quite tame as no blood is shown.
  (unless you download a mod from the internet)
 
  The graphics are not state-of-the-art but gameplay makes up for these very small flaws.
  The most fantastic thing is the new squad system which means you can join a squad and work together 
 to kill enemies.
  
  The campagin mode from Battlefield 1942 has been removed but you can have singleplayer instant 
 action, which is just as fun.
  
  All in all, this game is a masterpiece.
  EA should be very proud of this game and its features.
  Still 3 and a half years after its release, 
 I can still not access servers because they are full!
  Well done Battlefield 2, You were promoted!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: barfthecaveman
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  First off Bf2 is and forever will be one of my favourit games. 
  
  This was the sequel to the forever popular first person shooter known as BattleField 1942 and it 
 was a instant classic when it was first released. 
  
  Bf2 was (and still is) a revolutionary game that took the battlefield universe into the modern era 
 fighting intense single and multiplayer battles. 
  
  I particularly like this game for its realism and fun gameplay online and on singleplayer my only 
 problem was that for anyone new to the game after about a year or so after its release would be 
 in a tough spot online becuase they would have to catch up with all the pros and unlock all the 
 weapons and badges.
  
  Still if you like the battlefield series than I personally recommend that you download the demo 
 or just buy the game because, this game is gonna blow your expectations out of the water.
  
  Hope to see you online somtime :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bumbayay
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  This is the greatest online game to have ever come out in the history of all online gaming in my 
 opinion. Once you work your way around the Punkbuster issue that many people encounter, this game 
 is a blast. When getting into a game of 64 players, this game can become very intense when you 
 have many bullets zooming past your head, and a jet swoops down to drop bombs on you. The buzzing 
 of a helicopter will make you want to find cover because you never know how many passengers it 
 may be carrying, and loaded with heavy weapons. The control are very easy to use, and the graphics 
 are great. The sound quality is top notch and gives you those intense feelings that I had just 
 mentioned. Great multiplayer online game, and I recommend it to those online, first person shooter 
 lovers (no story mode) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bart567
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 has too many pros and only one con.
  The single con is that when you unlock a weapon, you cannot test it out in singleplayer.
  The 
 Pros are amazing.
  Fantastic multiplayer means you can be a sniper picking off the enemies or be a assault man mowing 
 down enemies with a light machine gun and still have as much fun.
  
  The violence level is quite tame as no blood is shown.
  (unless you download a mod from the internet)
 
  The graphics are not state-of-the-art but gameplay makes up for these very small flaws.
  The most fantastic thing is the new squad system which means you can join a squad and work together 
 to kill enemies.
  
  The campagin mode from Battlefield 1942 has been removed but you can have singleplayer instant 
 action, which is just as fun.
  
  All in all, this game is a masterpiece.
  EA should be very proud of this game and its features.
  Still 3 and a half years after its release, 
 I can still not access servers because they are full!
  Well done Battlefield 2, You were promoted!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcavoybn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. If you were just going to buy the game right now, and just wanted to look 
 at the gamespot ratings to see whether or not you should buy it, stop reading now and just leave 
 and buy it. However, if yo are one of those people who are trying to decide whether or not to buy 
 this one or some james bond p*ssy bullsh*t, (pardon my french : ) then this review should snap you 
 into the correct place, which is where you play BF2.
  
  To start off I'll tell you all the cool things about this game. For starters you don't need the 
 latest nVidia 8800 gts graphics card to run, and enjoy the game.
  
  2. The commander, and squad system is the best thing out there when it comes to Multiplayer gaming, 
 and it really does help you win the match.
  
  3. It is the first MMOFPS. Some matches on servers hold up to 64 players! Lag? Unless your computer 
 is streaming video to thousands of users worldwide, lagging won't be too much of an issue.
  
  4. You can go without multiplayer, without missing out on too much. The bots are smart, sometimes 
 to the point that they are annoying.
  
  However:
  
  1. When you first get the game you can only play the 16 player maps. This is a big disappointment. 
 However you can download the 32 and 64 player maps, and if you edit some simple python script, 
 you can run 64 bots.
  
  I'm not going to say it again. Go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CodeBlack3
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  This game is a great addition to the FPS genre. It's gameplay is like most others in the series. 
 Simply you will spawn at a base (there is only one at the start for some courses) and try to capture 
 all the bases or reduce your opponents ticket count to 0. Some courses, such as Strike at Karkand, 
 have a base that cannot be captured (or lost, depending on which team you're using) . If you get 
 killed, you'll simply lose a "ticket" for your team. There are seven different kits- Spec Ops, 
 Sniper, Assault, Engineer, Support, Medic, and Anti-Tank. Each kit is good for different situations.
 
  
  The graphics and sound are definitely not lacking. The graphics were very upgraded from the previous 
 version, 1942, with things such as character detail, cracks and chips in cement, excellent lighting, 
 etc. The sound is also very realistic, with many phrases (probably between 100-200 with just the 
 Americans) , things such as starting up motors and brass shells from bullets hitting the ground, 
 and great music (though there are only like 5 songs) .
  
  The difficulty is probably not for someone who's new the the FPS games, though the easy difficulty 
 might be a good start, with the fact that the AI practically can't hit you from 2 feet away sometimes. 
 Veteran will prove to be tougher and Expert is, without a doubt, not for beginners. If you've never 
 played an FPS game before do not start at that level as the AI is very quick, accurate, and rapid 
 in their fire. 
  
  Overall, the game is very good. The only complaints I have is that loading a map can sometimes 
 take from 15-30min. And also, the game tends to run a bit choppy at the start of a map, though 
 this might be because my computer isn't the top of the gaming comps. I would definitely suggest 
 buying this game, and for those of you who don't like blood or cussing, there is NONE! In online 
 play you might experience some swear words (though I've never played online, my brother has) , but 
 there are family-friendly servers that you could play on that will ban anyone who swears. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWFAttitudefan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I am a Battlefield fanatic, so I bought Battlefield 2 and fell in love with it instantly, this 
 game is so much fun! Lemme break it down for ya!
  
  GRAPHICS 10/10
  
  Amazing graphics, the game looks so realistic (if you have a PC that can play it on highest graphics 
 settings that is.) even on medium graphics, this game is still nice looking.
  
  SOUND 10/10
  
  This game sounds like a real warfield, The guns all sound real, the jets make 
 realistic whoosh sounds as they zoom above you and the helicopters just make this game feel like 
 real life.
  
  GAMEPLAY 10/10
  
  This game has smooth gameplay, but can be a little challenging to learn at first, but once you 
 learn the ropes, this game is sooooo much fun!
  
  ONLINE 8.5/10
  
  Online in this game is fun, with unlockable weapons and real Army ranks, however if you don't have 
 a good internet service, sometimes even if you do, this game can lag pretty bad online at times, 
 but if you can look past that, then you can enjoy this game.
  
  FEATURES 5/10
  
  This game lacks alot of features, besides the unlockable weapons and ranks, this game only has 
 8 maps (unless you have the expansion packs) and 2 gametypes, however, you probably won't notice 
 the lack of features when you're pwning 63 other people online with your sniper rifle. ;-)
  
  Overall I give Battlefield 2 a 9.5, this game is simply amazing, super-fun to play, it's my 
 favorite game and I know it will be your favorite game too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomaldino
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  I first bought this game in the summer of 2007, when i got a decent enough computer :D. This game 
 is clearly focused on online gameplay as the single player mode is merely 8v8 battles on the size 
 16 maps, but it is good enough and can be challenging on a high difficulty. The multiplayer is 
 good, but the server selection menu can be laggy. The graphics are good, the ragdolls need a bit 
 of improvement and the physics are good. The multiplayer and some singleplayer battles include 
 modern front-line technology, like Cobra Helicpoters, F15's, J10's and Black Hawks. There is also 
 hot stuff on the ground, like M12 tanks and HUMVEE's. The squads are a nice feature that enable 
 playres to take it to the enemy with organisation. The commander is a good feature, using intelligince 
 toys such as the scan and uav. Supply and vehicle drops can help out ground troops in sticky spots, 
 and the artillery can be effective backup in the form of taking out most infantry and most vehicles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falkien06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  If you wanna experience awesome online this game is it! This game is overall fun when playing with 
 friends in squads or with people you don't know. Squad gameplay is great preparing assaults and 
 getting commands from the commander himself. The commander also plays a big part in exposing and 
 setting up an advantage for his/her team. The online has up to 64 players. The vehicles are very 
 fun and need practice to control especially the heli. The game requires you to play to unlock new 
 weapons and ranking yourself for having chance to be commander. This game is really worth the value 
 and though the graphics are bad it is still very effective and doesn't effect the game or gameplay 
 in any way. The game has no singleplayer story mode besides setting a game to play against bots 
 with peculiar names. This game is overall one of the best pc games I have ever played. This is 
 an instant classic and I hope that the sequels are just as good and better!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StermerCody
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 2:50 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 has finally arrived on the pc. People has been waiting for this game since the demo 
 came out people kept playing it till the suprise. 
  
  If you dont know what battlefield is. Its a First Person shooter that involves in a huge war conflict 
 with objectives. The past games support up to 64 players in one server. Millions of people keep 
 playing these games cause they are so great. 
  
  Battlefield 2 has the same elements as past games. The game just got a huge upgrade in the gameplay 
 and graphics. Battlefield 2 is amazing to look at. The trees are 3D objects and the ground scaping 
 is just amazing to look at. You will honestly take about a hour just look at this engine. 
  
  The gameplay in BF 2 has its ups and downs when it comes to all battlefields. The developers 
 at DICE have been crunching codes so the weapon are balanced so people can have fun just spraying 
 bullets at each other. There are also a huge arsonal of vechials that you can use. There are planes, 
 heli's, tanks, apc's, and jeeps. The worst about the tank its a a death cannon. The tanks are so 
 over powered that will probley make you mad and you may not want you to play. This doesn't mean 
 that Battlefield 2 is a bad game. This is the best military game ever made. It feels like in the 
 military fight WWIII. 
  
  This game is a huge system hog to come to gamesplay. Most likely you will need a comupter that 
 is a year old or you might over due it. I would recommend this game if you are looking for a great 
 FPS.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bnwchbammer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  The game is seriously the best way to experience online gameplay. With team based gameplay that 
 can really be fun with friends or total strangers. Squad gameplay is a great way to organize combat, 
 and commander abilities such as UAV and artillery can make a huge difference if used correctly. 
 With a huge variety of maps with up to 64 players. The vehicles are extremely fun to use, and everything 
 but jets are easy to use. Jets are extremely fun as well, but they are harder than piloting a choper, 
 or driving a tank or car. The weapons are extremely fun to use, and the unlock system is really 
 good. The game is a perfect balance of strategy and run and gun. Here's the break down.
  
  Graphics - 9 Being an old game, I'm not about to give it anything lower. They aren't at all bad, 
 and help you feel like you are in a real war.
  
  Gameplay - 10 The online expereince of this cannot be beat. With tons of forums and clans dedicated 
 to this game, the experience is amazing.
  
  Sound - 9 With all of the sound effects in the game it can get hectic sometimes. If you're on teamspeak 
 as a dedicated hardcore gamer, you may not be able to hear everything at once. With that being 
 said, it's still an enjoyable environment, as well as map load songs being enjoyable to listen 
 to.
  
  Pros - The best online experience offered on the PC. Amazing game.
  
  Cons- No single player campaign. If you don't have online connection, which I'm assuming you do 
 since this is an online review, well don't get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaptain_insano
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  look, i've had this game for 3 motha fuk! ng years now. 3 years ok? and i still play this game like 
 i just got it. this game is a benchmark in gaming society, just about every shooter made now compares 
 itself to BF2. every game developer probly looks and takes the best things from the BF series and 
 adds it to their games. so for all you dil weeds who have been giving this game crap, i am so sorry 
 that your computer can't handle this amazing piece of software, but that doesn't mean that u give 
 it crap saying that it sux. notice how on xfire that it is still one of the most played games. 
 i'm dissapointed in all u f@gs. this game is still #1!!! sure EA likes to nickel and dime you, 
 but who cares? they are releasing good quality games. so deal with it, and enjoy the game. i reccomend 
 it. 10/10. ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: join993
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  This game is just amazing!! Another game in the Battlefield series and with its amazing online 
 play this game will be classical when it comes to FPS. Since Digital Illusions is Swedish and soo 
 am I, I would like to say that they made it ^_^ not EA.. EA are simply the publishers for you people 
 out there that think "another great game made by EA"... well I just wanted to say that before i 
 begin! :)
  
  The graphics to this game is AMAZING!! for when it was release it was great, nowdays though it's 
 not near as good as it was when it was release but it still will always be there for gamers to 
 look back to... It will always be there when some gamer is bored and need something to do. But!! 
 The requierments for the game are by most standards (not by a real gamer standards) this har fat 
 requierments. for someone that only has a family computer or something this might, it MIGHT be 
 to big reqiuerments for the game.. though most people that have a personal computer today will 
 be able to run it.. 
  
  Now to the online play... I always say that don't whine on the game on the early stages if it a 
 mostly online played game.. There will be many patches and updates, so nowdays the game is very 
 stable and you wont be having to many bugs with it. But just a reminder if you dont have a internet 
 connection that is pretty fast this is no game for you, only playing this game singleplayer is 
 a waste of money and time since singleplayer is no fun on this game. Not at all... So for the gameplay 
 online... Well, If you dont find a server with balanced difficulty you will be more or less screwed, 
 since on many server you find yourself against people of the highest rank and whata hell... how 
 do anyone think that a first time online player will be able to stand against one that has played 
 that last 10 months!? they should have some kind of matching system so that you will meet people 
 with the same ammount of experience. Also you get ranks (Which could be compared to levels by some) 
 you have a bar on your BFHQ that you fill through killing the enemy, reparing UAV/Radar/artillery... 
 You also get points for "defending the flag" which is just to kill a enemy that has just started 
 to take over your teams flag.. Also you can get points/assists for taking/heelping people to take 
 the flags of your opponent... Also when you advance in ranks, i think its every second rank, you 
 will get to chose a new weapon that you can bring to the battlefield! :D
  
  overall this game is great and with all the mods there is to it you will find yourself bound to 
 your computer for hours... All the planes, helis, cars and tanks there is to drive you will never 
 really get bored by this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  =preview=
  
  the good things if u lay on war chaos, make u fly on to battlefield 2, which different with others 
 series. and u will fight like a elite team in a chaos war.
  
  =The Good=
  
    Gameplay graphics Gameplay Graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meyer1100
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Exciting multiplayer experience that is fun to keep playing and playing. Ranks, medals, badges, 
 ribbons, are all fun things to unlock and make your character better. Fun game to play wherever 
 you go. Online Multiplayer is fun to so how bad you can own all the other players. You can either 
 be a medic, sniper, support, special forces, or anti-tank. There are tons of maps you can try out 
 to make your Battlefield 2 gaming experience even better! Battlefield 2 will keep you busy will 
 all the servers the multiplayer player have created. Battlefield 2 is a good long-term game with 
 low PC requirements that you will have to pull yourself away from the action! Be the squad leader 
 or Commander of your troops and lead them into battle! Call for a medic when you are injured and 
 he'll be there in a jiffy. Be a sniper and hide on a hill behind a bush and snipe out all your 
 enemies before they know what hit them! AMAZING GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheeseGuardian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  I've had this game for about 2 1/2 years, but my first review of this game was terrible, so I'm 
 doing it again:
  
  If this game had been published by someone other than EA, it would've been great. However, EA, 
 being the money-hungry bastards they are, did publish this game, which resulted in it being shipped 
 far earlier than the developer (DICE) probably would have liked.
  
  First, I'll talk about the gameplay itself, and how Battlefield 2 succeeds as a multiplayer game. 
 Later I'll talk about the technical aspects of the game.
  
  This game successfully blends infantry and vehicle combat, and allows you to fight battles any 
 way you want. For instance, you can jump in a tank to mow down enemy infantry and light vehicles, 
 or you can grab a sniper rifle, find a well-camouflaged spot, and take enemies down one-by-one. 
 Or you can jump in a helicopter with your squad and rain fire down on enemy infantry. Heck, you 
 can even fly a fighter jet to take out enemy tanks and helicopters, or engage in crazy dogfights 
 with enemy planes. The list of possibilities goes on and on.
  
  You can fight with 64 players in one game. That's quite a few, and the battles are awesome, but 
 the connection quality sometimes suffers as a result. Upon joining a game, you will be prompted 
 to choose an infantry class. There are seven distinct classes to choose from (SpecOps, Sniper, 
 Assault, Support, Engineer, Medic, and Anti-tank) , and each one has different weapons and specialties. 
 The game features a ranking system based on how many points you've achieved in multiplayer, and 
 as you progress through the ranks, you will be given unlock points to use on new weapons, making 
 the game rewarding to long-term players.
  
  The squad system is an excellent concept, and is implemented well, although many players will choose 
 not to join a squad. You can access the squads screen at any time, and join any one you feel like. 
 Each squad has a squad leader, who acts as a mobile spawn point, and it's usually important to 
 keep him alive. The squads are coordinated (Hopefully) by the team commander. Any player can apply 
 for the commander position at the beginning of the round, but only the applicant with the highest 
 rank is given the job. Many times, the commander may choose not to give orders to the squads, but 
 he is still important, due to his ability to call in artillery strikes, UAV scans, supply drops, 
 and other goodies players may require during a battle.
  
  The game has a rock/paper/scissors-esque feel to it. For instance, helicopters usually beat tanks, 
 tanks usually beat infantry, and a well coordinated group of infantry can take out a helicopter. 
 But you never feel trapped by your role. Helicopter pilots know that a well-aimed round from a 
 tank cannon could take them out if they aren't careful, infantry know that a skilled helicopter 
 gunner could wipe them out of they don't take him down fast enough, and tank drivers know to be 
 on the lookout for anti-tank rockets, as it only takes 2 or 3 to put the tank out of commission. 
 It'ts like rock/paper/scissors, with a twist. Like, "What if the rock is sharp, and cuts through 
 the paper?", or "What if the scissors are really tough, and can cut through the rock?". It's this 
 amazing, unique gameplay style that attracts players. But only if the players are willing to keep 
 playing, despite the game's flaws.
  
  Had DICE had more time to playtest and fix the game's technical problems, this game would have 
 been excellent, far surpassing any multiplayer-based shooter already on the market. However, as 
 I said above, it was published by Electronic Arts. So, of course, as with many other EA titles, 
 you'll probably notice just how much advertising and DRM has been crammed into the game. Unskippable 
 intro ads, long load times, poor weapon design, and a terrible netcode ruin what would otherwise 
 be an excellent game. I believe DICE would have perfected this game if they had more time to work 
 on it.
  
  The official gamespot review provides a fairly accurate depiction of the gameplay, graphics and 
 sound. However, I am astounded that the reviewer had the nerve to say this game is technically 
 stable, as it is one of the least stable retail games I have ever played. Even now, 3 years after 
 the game was released, CTDs are still as common as they were when the game was first released, 
 game servers will frequently crash (which doesn't make server owners very happy) , there are still 
 some vehicle imbalances (although it is rumored they will be corrected soon) , and the netcode has 
 yet to be improved from its original state. The poor netcode is what makes me most angry. EA had 
 3 years to improve it, but did absolutely nothing. Player hitboxes lag behind the player models, 
 so you are sometimes required to lead your target BACKWARDS, based on his/her latency. This really 
 frustrated me, as I had to learn a whole new style of sniping to take down my enemy. Along with 
 the hitboxes, the hit-detection system also lags behind, so even if your target is visibly hit 
 by a bullet, there is a chance they will not take any damage. This also frustrated me, as it gave 
 high-latency players an advantage over players with better connections.
  
  On top of these issues, the ballistics model is extremely poor. Weapons will spread at an unrealistic 
 rate, requiring players to carefully aim one shot at a time. It is as if nobody at DICE bothered 
 to think about how weapons actually behave when fired. This, coupled with the hit-detection problems, 
 may result in a broken keyboard, as a result of banging your head on it out of frustration.
  
  Here's my overall rating of the game, based on Gamespot's review system:
  
  Gameplay: 8
 
  The battles are amazing, Infantry versus vehicle combat is fun and balanced, and ultimately the 
 better-coordinated team will come out on top. However, a lot of technical issues, some gameplay 
 imbalances, and a poor ballistics model ruin what would otherwise be a flawless game.
  
  Graphics: 8
  The graphics aren't the best you'll ever see, but they aren't the worst, either. 
 My only complaint is the steep system requirements (considering the quality) . Some people have 
 complained about long load times. I have found that this game's load times are proportional to 
 your graphical settings. Since I play on low/medium, I never feel as though the loading sequence 
 takes too long.
  
  Sound: 9
  The sound is very good; explosions are appropriately loud, planes roar overhead, and artillery 
 echoes in the distance. Although some of the voice-overs can get annoying, the sound does a good 
 job of complimenting the action.
  
  Value: 7
  Considering I payed $50 (US) for this game, I feel like EA ripped me off. It was obvious the game 
 was shipped only half-completed and improperly tested, as a patch was required less than 2 weeks 
 after its release. But considering you can pick this game up for about $15, and many of the major 
 issues have been ironed out, it's well worth the money.
  
  Tilt: 8
  This game succeeds as a multiplayer game, but falls short as a first-person shooter. I still play 
 this game, and it still has a large online playerbase. I would recommend this game to anyone who 
 has a system able to run it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xalenite
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Battlefield 2 lets you engage in one of the most frantic games ever created. While it may only 
 come with one mode, Conquest, its that mode alone that makes the Battlefield series so great. Sure, 
 running around taking spawn points may seem boring on paper but when intergrated with the feautres 
 of the game, its truly epic. The added features of Squads and Commanders make this game even more 
 realistic AND funner. Each kit has a unique role in the battle and vehicles are quite balanced. 
 When all of these systems "click" it provides a thrill ride you won't experience in any other game. 
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  While it might have been a system hog 3 years ago, this game can be played maxed out on great resolutions 
 in recent hardware. Despite its age, the graphics are still great. The details on everything, including 
 the character models, are quite impressive. One impressive map everybody needs to try out is "Strike 
 at Karkand". The style is truly impressive and feels like a real warzone. 
  
  Sound:
  
  Simply put this game is LOUD. But it's a good loud because the sound effects of the guns and vehicles 
 are astonishing. You will run for cover the moment you hear that tank ROAR on the other corner. 
 The sound of supressing fire feels really authentic also. The most frightening sound in the game 
 must be the sounds of an artillery strike. Its.. SCARY.
  
  Value:
  
  With a price tag of only $10 this game is just a damn steal. I bought it back when it was $30 and 
 I still feel like I got my money's worth. No other game will make you feel like your in an actual 
 battle. Despite its age, there are still many servers running. There's a REASON people still play. 
 This game is simply amazing. 
  
  Note:
  
  Do NOT buy this game for the single-player, or lack thereof. Unless you ejoy shooting boring AI 
 bots. Although, since it's only $10, it may provide quick fun and a taste of what to expect when 
 you duke it out online. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenom316
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is one of those types of games, an FPS gamer uses as a benchmark, a game that just 
 brings FPS fun to the next level. I bought this game a while ago after hearing my friends talk 
 about it and expected it to be like Counterstrike but damn i was surprised!
  
  Tons of maps and rooms to chose from, rooms from 30 people to 64 people on big, fun maps.
  
 
  You then pick your spawn point and weapon to use. You start off with around 6 choises, machine 
 guns, sniper, rocket launcher, support, shotgun..
  
  After getting alot of kills and points, you rank up and get new fun guns.
  
  And say if you 
 go on a killing rampage, you get awarded metals for it, there fun to get but the expert ones can 
 be extremely hard, they have lots of the,
  
  You get spawned right into battle and action with teammates and start killing!!
  
  They have 
 tons of different weapons and vehicles when you start out. I spawned at the base and you can get 
 into a Tank, Land Vehicle or Aircraft. We had Six people in the plane in which you can shoot like 
 crazy, fly realy fun and shoot miseles and bombs! The map is big so theres always places to go 
 and kill.
  
  The gameplay is just so phenomenally smooth and fun, tons of awesome vehicles and guns!!
  
 
  Altogether its an amazing FPS shooter with guns and vehicles. Smooth gameplay, Great graphics 
 and Amazing achievements and ranks that will make you want to keep killing!
  
  Bottom Line = If You Like Guns Or FPS, Play It !!
  
  
  My rating scale depends on the platform 
 and genre its on. Since PC has much more awesome games on it, i mark much harder on it so a 80% 
 on PC would mean its great compared to the hundreds of other awesome PC games of that genre, and 
 might be better than a 98% of consoles. A great game is a great game, on the system. I like to 
 keepy my reviews short and sweet, so i wont bore you and get to the point. If theres an official 
 review out on Giant Bomb, you should definately read it because they are the best reviewers in 
 the worlds! =D
  
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  Graphics 10/10
  Fun 10/10
  Replay 10/10
  Single+Multiplayer 10/10
  
  
  Overall = 49/50 = 98% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKL06
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is truly an amazing game. It does justice to the rest of the series behind it and 
 gives a fresh and modern perspective of the battlefield that we have all been waiting for. Even 
 if you have not played previous Battlefield games, this one is still worth playing. With superb 
 game play, incorporation of new tactics, graphics, vehicles, and maps Battlefield 2 has made itself 
 a place in history as one of the best video games out there. Conquest mode has been redefined with 
 new modern technology replacing propeller planes with jets and helicopters and modern tanks and 
 weaponry. Maps are also very well done ranging from urban close quarters fighting to large open 
 hills and grasslands. EA has also introduced a brilliant new squad based team play, allowing you 
 to command and create squads. There are new and modern weapons as well, such as the M4 or AK-101. 
 All in all Battlefield 2 will have you playing until the early hours of the morning with its exceptional 
 multi-player and fast paced action. This game will be the most fun you've ever had playing a first 
 person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Dispite there being no real SP aspect to the game that still shouldent put you off of it. It's 
 really one of these games that require you to have skill and actually play online for once, I like 
 the idea that you can play a SP game VS bots and you get nothing for it. We will get to that soon 
 though dont worry.
  
  There are many great and sadly many bad things about this game, Bad include numerous bugs and crashs 
 that you may encounter during your period online although I have never really fell victum to these.
 
  
  There really is no story to the game. Just its war... and thats all you need to know and to be 
 quite honest with you, that suits me just fine.
  
  The weapons in this game are very good and so are the many vehicles that you will be able to comandeer 
 and kill people with. 
  The game uses the classic "Ticket" function, holding more points on the map drains your enemys 
 tickets faster, killing them also drops there tickets.
  
  Normally I wouldnt go for a game like this as people online now days are a pain and ruin it for 
 everyone, but this is a game that just needs to be played for hours and hours. Its just really 
 good.
  
  the numerous bugs and crashes you may encounter are the only things stopping this from getting 
 a solid 10 but thats ok. Right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dodo97
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Game is perfect, it have alot of options and it even has multiplayer. The graphic is brilliant very 
 nice and very good. I saw that the rank of this game is 175 and the rank of this game at PC is 58, I 
 think that rank of this game needs to be 9 and the rank of this game at PC needs to be at 5.
  
  
  
  Game is for 9.5 becuse I am saying again the game is perfect. Too bad that it isn't 
 at PS2 but thats not importmant. Well it's much better than Battlefield 1942 and it's better than 
 America's Army. But America's Army is good too. Anyway this game dosen't have mods like GTA San Andreas 
 or Star Wars Jedi Academy, and becuse of that for Battlefield is for 9.5, but that is not matter 
 for some peoples but for me it is.
  
  
  I bet that the EA Games got alot of money but not just becuse of this game. EA Games has got alot 
 of games, and Rockstar games got alot of games. Well thats all what did I wanted to say.
  
  
  _______
  Dodo97 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SasRoll0
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  You buy this game for multiplayer and multiplayer only it hasnt got a the feel on singleplayer 
 as it is running around with real people. Teamwork is the key in this game and winning battles. 
 It had a all new weapon unlock system that kept you wanting to play and play more and more. Rankings 
 take a look time to get to the top and with the tanks, jets ,helicopters in the game also it makes 
 this game one of the best FPS ever created IMO and its easy to get into hard to master. With the 
 adittion of expantion packs this is a truly awsome series of games to buy. A must buy for any FPS 
 out there.!!!
  
  Graphics-9/10 (in the day) Now days 6/10
  
  
  Gameplay- 10/10
  
  
  Sound-8/10
  
  Multiplayer-10/10
  
  
  This game still has a huge community to this 
 day people coming back from 2142 and reinstalling this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: INFAMOUSHAVOC
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 was a game i was hearing mad things about when i first download the demo it took 
 me a good week to understand the game play and everything but when i figure everything out i was 
 devastating on the battlefield and creating squad that were there to put up a fight or be on a 
 squad and be a dedicated member to my squad leader assist him in every way. basically i was playing 
 the game the way it was suppose to be played. i was totally addicted to this game the game play 
 10/10 is fun when your in a good squad the play the game he kick some real butt if you got some 
 good players on your side don't always be. graphic 10/10 nice smoke effects nice gun details nice 
 water there is one stage the strike on kirkland which really work your graphic card.
  I never seen a game that balance ever game type in one when i say that it sort of like capture 
 the flag territories and big team death match. explain when you kill a person and capture flag 
 you get points for all that not just one plus if you don't kill a person. the only reason i reject 
 it a perfect 10 is because there are times in the game where you got people who don't wanna play 
 so it could be uneven on one side. there also is very long load time but when you get it start 
 be prepared for a good half hour of war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avals
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Well, consider this is a game of late 2005.. I'll start with my opinion when I first feel in 2006-
 
  
  A nice, decent shooter game that allow a great battle to be played and classes to choose from, 
 an old kind battlefield type needn't say more..
  
  Personally I just trya say that, if your team is crapped up, you'll get crapped up too..
  
 
  It's very painful to be on a losing side.. the other side kept on artillerying your position, enemy 
 aircrafts kept striking on your position, enemy copters destroyin every tanks or vechicles your 
 side have, enemy tanks and APCs attack from the ground, with loads greandes explode around you...
 
  
  You can't EVEN stand a chance NOT to die within 25 seconds with killed nothing..
  
  THE worst come with satellite mapping... enemy know all of your location and YOU, a single infantry, 
 will never stand a chance to escap from your death..
  
  Even if you escape from aircrafts, copters, arty, infantry, armour, friendly noob fire, tens and 
 tens of grendes that throw from nowhere..
  
  You will still be picked on while escapin by snipers..
  
  "Ahhrrrr", "AHrrrrrr", "Medic!", 
 "Comrades down!"
  
  I heard too much..
  
  It isn't my skill that is bad..
  
  It is my team and commander that is bad..
  
  And that led to, indirectly, screwing up your 
 scores and expierences..
  
  In the winning team, I usually get around 3:1 kill ratio but on losing team, I get 1:6 killing 
 ratio..
  
  That's surely too painful..
  
  Grahpic is okay but not great..
  Sound are fine..
  Gameplay are fine, (as long as your team is winning)
  
  Oh and, one more 
 cons about this game is that it do not offer any singeplayer (Well, if you call 16 in 6 maps a singeplayer) , 
 yea I know that battlefield series don't focus on singleplayer but, at least still give us some 
 standard challenges there like battlefield vietnam/1942! (Where you could set bots to 64 and ratio-impossible 
 and you could enjoy killing spree, kill around 150s somethings and die only 4-6..)
  
  But now singleplayer here? Sad.. end too fast with too limted action..
  
  And, the multiplayer 
 loading account load TOO long... I have to wait for 5 minutes for each time I log in, or try to 
 find a server and join a game..
  
  That kill my patiences...
  
  Presentation-7/10
  Graphic-8/10 (In 2006 opinion)
  Gameplay (singeplayer) -1/10
  Gameplay (multiplayer-winning team) -9/10
 
  Gameplay (multiplayer-losing team) -4/10
  Sound-9/10
  Value-8/10
  Enjoyablity (where you can enjoy killing spree) -6/10
  Reality-7/10
  
  Overrall I give this 
 game a 8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aplayaz2000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Well first off I'll be completely honest with you, its a good not great game. The good meaning 
 $9.99, squads and voice chat, more features like planes and helicopters, and the graphics.
  
  You see I am very picky about games like I usually pick on many things. Somethings do get annoying 
 after like expert plane drivers, they ruin a lot of the fun. There will be times where you might 
 dislike the balance issue. Another thing I don't like is there is no campaign or a decent single 
 player game at all. Come on EA you could of at least thrown in a mini game or something.
  
  It's a decent shooting game for 2006, a lot of people don't even know there is a game where you 
 can drive helicopters and planes which others can hop on. Before you buy you might want a PC with 
 over 2.4GHZ and a decent video card. Online play will be hell if your getting horrid FPS but then 
 again its only $9.99. Check it out, Battlefield 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satorn
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  I ONCE HEARD a game developer refer to Battlefield 1942 as "lightning in a bottle." Released at 
 a time when first-person shooters were all either over-the-top science fiction or ultra-realistic 
 weapon simulations, the original Battlefield struck a balance between realism and fun that's been 
 virtually unmatched. Infantry, tanks, jeeps, planes, and even ships fought online for virtual supremacy 
 in a world where heavy weapons were used and discarded like facial tissues and parachutes could 
 be opened and closed multiple times on the way down. Nobody complained that the Messerschmitt turning 
 radius wasn't accurately modeled: It was fun to fly and fun to blow up. Whether on a LAN party 
 or online, Battlefield 1942 was an instant addiction that had gamers playing all night and talking 
 about their exploits with friends all through the next day.
  
  Battlefield: Vietnam was a competent enough follow-up, but it didn't feel like enough of an upgrade 
 -- it had plenty of rough edges and never caught fire the way the original game did. Now EA and 
 DICE are back, looking to refresh the franchise with a full-on sequel -- Battlefield 2 -- that 
 improves on the original game in almost every way. Although we have our nitpicks, this is the next 
 must-have for PC gamers.
  
  The action never lets up in Battlefield 2.
  
  Bigger is Better
  
  The core Battlefield game is still the same: it's a first-person shooter 
 with land, sea, and air vehicles where two teams compete over key points on the map. The action 
 is fast-paced, and while realistic weapons and locations are featured, fun always takes precedence 
 over simulation.
  
  Here's what's new: Battlefield 2 features an all-new graphics engine allowing for huge maps riddled 
 with detail at every level. This time around the emphasis isn't on WWII or Vietnam but on modern 
 warfare, with all the insane hardware you'd see on a contemporary battlefield. (There are three 
 factions: the U. S., the fictional "Middle East Coalition," and the People's Liberation Army of 
 China.) BF2 also brings to the table a complete integrated stats package, tracking your individual 
 profile persistently online. Teamplay is kicked up a notch, with integrated tools to divide players 
 into squads with their own missions, and a scoring system that provides big rewards for players 
 who support teammates with medical aid, ammo, or repairs.
  
  The maps in Battlefield 2 are huge, depicting detailed environments in potential hotspots around 
 the world (divided between the Middle East and China.) There are 12 maps in total, but each one 
 comes in three sizes, suitable for 16, 32, or 64 players. Gameplay can be radically different in 
 each (especially in the small 16-player versions) , so the 12 maps feel like a lot more. For example: 
 the 16-player version of the FuShe Pass map (see our overview of all the maps) has three bases 
 in question, with furious fighting over a base in the middle of a river. The 32-player version 
 has the same location, but it opens up the action to fight along both coasts of the river valley. 
 And if you fire up the 64-player version, the entirety of the valley and its network of bridges 
 is up for grabs, with both teams striking out from enormous airbases.
  
  Unlike Battlefield 1942, the maps can get quite complicated. Roads will wind up steep ridges, or 
 networks of rivers will be criss-crossed by bridges and fords. As a result, it's not always a straight 
 shot to get to the flag: you'll need to spend some time learning the ins and outs and quirks of 
 each location. But once you do get to learn the maps, there's a particular brilliance in the design. 
 Most maps have natural chokepoints to defend or particular strategies that the terrain encourages. 
 Some maps are all about ground forces, some involve infantry skirmishes in tight city streets, 
 and some benefit from lots of air power -- there's both strategy and variety in the locations.
 
  
  From our play experience, most of the 16-player maps are nicely balanced, even if the starting 
 positions on the individual levels aren't always even, especially on some of the larger levels. 
 For instance, on several maps the U. S. team starts with only their home base and must try to take 
 the entire map from the other team. This sounds like it would be hard for the U. S. players, but 
 in fact the U. S. base is immune from conquest whereas the main enemy base is vulnerable to being 
 taken over. What typically happens here is that the U. S. team attacks and eventually conquers the 
 main enemy base, then monopolizes all that available heavy equipment to squash the other team into 
 the middle of the map. If the opposing team is smart enough to leave some defenders behind, that 
 just means they're outnumbered on the main battlefield. A handful of the maps are lopsided like 
 this, and the truth is Battlefield 2 isn't always "fair." But these asymmetrical battles are interesting 
 in their own way -- the battles still end up being fun, since teams can dig themselves out of nearly 
 any position.
  
  Battlefield 2 is pretty demanding from a technical standpoint, insisting on hardcore hardware (more 
 on that shortly) , but the game puts it to good use. What's stunning is the level of detail no matter 
 where you are on the battlefield. If you're soaring high above in a chopper, you'll see a complex 
 network of valleys and bridges and city streets. As you stand on the front lines you can see every 
 detail of an individual vehicle, every little antenna and tread. Real-time shadows creep across 
 the landscape as vehicles move along. And if you stand next to a fellow player, you'll see a soldier 
 rendered with all of his equipment intact. Battlefield 2 brings the battle to life on every level.
 
  
  The Next Level of Teamplay
  
  While someone watching over your shoulder might mistake Battlefield 2 as more-of-the-same with 
 updated graphics and modern weapons, there are a number of tweaks that really encourage teamplay, 
 with a significant impact on the type of play you'll see online. One change is in the way that 
 maps are scored: you can earn points for healing teammates or repairing their vehicles, just as 
 you would for killing an enemy. Secondary classes like Medics, Engineers, or Support can now rack 
 up the points by helping their team. More importantly, if one of these character classes is in 
 a vehicle, that entire vehicle radiates that benefit to a nearby area. For example, if a Medic 
 is driving an APC, wounded characters can be healed simply by standing near the vehicle. Similarly, 
 Engineers can fix nearby vehicles while safely ensconced in a tank or APC, and Support characters 
 can drive along passing out ammunition like candy at a parade. As a result, these characters are 
 more useful than ever, and they're rewarded accordingly in the final score tally.
  
  And scores matter now, because Battlefield 2 tracks you as a player persistently over time. You'll 
 create an account, log in (almost as if you were playing an MMORPG) , and as you play you'll earn 
 medals and ribbons. As your accumulated score rises, you'll rise in rank: Private, Private First 
 Class, Captain, General, etc. Dozens of medals are awarded for particular in-game behaviors, so 
 just about any specialized activity that helps your team can earn you kudos: being a great squad 
 leader, an excellent tank driver, a helpful medic, etc. On paper, it sounds merely interesting; 
 in practice, it makes the game twice as addictive. During our testing I found the incentive to 
 play "just one more round" was twice as strong, especially when I was "just a match away from that 
 promotion!" It also provides even further rewards for doing well in specialized classes. The stats 
 system is seamlessly integrated into the game and makes a big impact.
  also sets out to give large teams a new level of online organization with built-in tools for creating 
 squads (groups of up to six soldiers) and a commander: one player on each team who gives commands 
 to the squads and can call in artillery strikes or satellite surveillance.) The ideas here aren't 
 completely new (as Tribes 2 fans or Global Operations players will recall) , but what really makes 
 these ideas work so well in Battlefield 2 is how elegantly they're implemented. It is very easy 
 to create a squad and give orders to your team up and down the map, and equally easy for a commander 
 to keep track of multiple squads. It's not an overly complex system. As a result, it's much more 
 likely to see use on crowded Internet servers as the game gains momentum. In our experience, having 
 a commander was absolutely crucial to winning the battle, and great squad leaders could really 
 make an impact on the map. Nice touches such as allowing players to spawn within the same vehicles 
 as their squad leader allow young Erwin Rommels out there to make a name for themselves on the 
 front lines.
  
  Many maps have natural chokepoints. Often, bridges (like this one) can be blown.
  
  Death from 
 Above... And Below...
  
  So, the new graphics look great, and the new teamplay functions really make this a next-generation 
 game. But at its heart this is still a Battlefield title, so the real action is in the interplay 
 between the infantry and vehicles across the map. Here the game shines as well.
  
  The different vehicles have a nice feel to them and great balance. Light vehicles zoom from map 
 point to map point, leaning hard into the corners and sailing over ramps. Heavy armor rumbles along, 
 bearing down with stunning firepower. Jets and helicopters soar overhead. Although the weapons 
 are modeled on real-life hardware, the game has a reality of its own: Jets are fast, but slow enough 
 to interact with all of the other elements on the battlefield. Similarly, homing missiles are powerful 
 but not to the extent that you punch a button and grab a sandwich while your target is destroyed 
 -- vehicles will detect missile locks and can use countermeasures. As with Battlefield 1942, the 
 emphasis is on fun over realism, and the game delivers. Fans of the Desert Combat mod should feel 
 right at home with the modern vehicles.
  
  Unlike Battlefield Vietnam, where one American soldier class could carry both a heavy machine gun 
 and a rocket launcher, Battlefield 2 has a much better balance between the different classes. Infantry 
 gets to carry around some pretty sweet weapons regardless of class (even the Engineer has a pretty 
 lethal shotgun for close-range action) . Targeting feels more solid than in previous Battlefield 
 games, so infantry combat is a little more satisfying.
  
  The one possible exception is the Sniper. Although the maps have tons of great sniper nests, and 
 the zoom on the sniper rifle is powerful, it doesn't seem to hit when it should. We've got guys 
 here at GameSpy HQ who are masters of the headshot, but even in their capable hands the sniper 
 rifle just didn't have the oomph that it should. But then again, considering how often some online 
 games degenerate into snipe-fests (Joint Ops, anyone?) maybe this isn't such a bad thing after 
 all.
  
  Little additions to the gameplay add nicely to the arcade-y feel of Battlefield. For example, infantry 
 can now sprint short distances, so that you can dash across a dangerous street or rush for a vehicle. 
 It's offset by the fact that you can't fire or strafe while sprinting, which is a nice addition. 
 Similarly, when using a parachute you can use your strafe keys to lean left and right, giving you 
 a slight ability to steer. It's difficult to land where you want, but a lot of fun to try. They're 
 subtle changes, but the keep the feel of the game and they're a lot of fun.
  
  Our biggest beef with the gameplay is one we complained about in our Battlefield: Vietnam review. 
 There's no connectivity between the capture points, so players can parachute way behind enemy lines 
 to capture a base across the map from the fighting. This wrecks the ebb and flow of the battle: 
 instead of having a defined front line, you have to constantly race from rear base to rear base 
 putting out fires. On the other hand, it is a lot of fun to parachute behind enemy lines to take 
 a rear point, and it's probably better for performance that battles are breaking out all over the 
 map. It's debatable if this is a good feature of the game or not, but be aware that love it or 
 hate it, it hasn't changed any since the original Battlefield 1942.
  
  Lastly, gameplay is significantly impacted by the "commander" player, who can call in artillery 
 strikes or send up unmanned radar drones to telegraph enemy movements to his team. This is itself 
 is great, but it adds a whole new element to the game because these abilities are tied in with 
 locations on the map. A commander can't fire artillery if his artillery guns have been demolished, 
 and he can't fire up a satellite drone if someone blew up his satellite trailer. One map strategy, 
 then, is to send some special forces teams to the main enemy base to blow up these key installations. 
 Engineers are needed to fix them, giving these support classes even more to do. This whole element 
 of the game works tremendously.
  
  Trouble on the Front
  
  Every Battlefield game to date has been plagued with issues on launch, and while BF2 is definitely 
 the most solid release so far, there are still a number of minor problems. All players are able 
 to reserve a unique nickname for themselves, but creating an account and tying it to an email address 
 can be a frustrating process. The keyboard controls are a real pain to set up, and once you've 
 got everything the way you like it, your control profile isn't saved with your game profile so 
 you have to reset them every time you sit down at a new computer.
  
  For anyone interested in it, the single-player game is as weak as ever, and we can only scratch 
 our head over claims that the bots had been "rewritten from the ground up." It's not that we expect 
 people to buy this game for single-player action, but the options are ridiculously limited, and 
 the bots just as useless. You can only play the 16-player versions of the maps with bots, so you 
 can't practice the bigger levels. You can play as commander and give the bots orders, but they 
 can never get it together to obey. And, despite their uselessness, it's a shame that you can't 
 pre-populate a server with a handful of bots to help jump-start a game. (We're expecting this to 
 be one of the first mods out of the gate.)
  
  But the biggest complaint that we have with the game is the steep hardware requirements. You'll 
 need a beefy video card: the minimum is a GeForce FX 5700 or a Radeon 8500. If you don't have the 
 proper card, or the proper driver, the game dumps you unceremoniously to desktop without as much 
 as an error message. We've got machines here at GameSpy with GeForce Ti 4600s that are capable 
 of running Half-Life 2 or DOOM 3 with solid framerates, but Battlefield 2 won't even run on these 
 systems. It seems that a huge audience could find themselves shut out of this game, which is a 
 shame; if you've been looking for a good excuse to pick up a new video card, this might be it.
 
  
  The Final Word
  
  While the steep technical requirements might be an issue for some, what ultimately matters is the 
 game itself and how it plays, and Battlefield 2 sets a new high watermark for online play. Once 
 you strap into an F/A-18 and rocket over the landscape, once you're crouched next to a tank trying 
 valiantly to repair it while bullets ping off of the armor inches above your head, once you defend 
 a waypoint and ask for new orders from your commander over the radio, all of those nitpicks about 
 map balance or sniper power fade. Battlefield 2 is a multiplayer experience that'll suck you in 
 and keep you there for months to come. It's time to get your war on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trontheamazing
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  Battlefield is in my opinion the best first person shooter of all time, as well as one of the only 
 online video games that I regularly play. Intro- It's hard to think of a life pre-BF2... well, not 
 really, basically the exact same only less complaining about "jet f*gs". BF2 for those of you not 
 in the know, is a sequel to BF1942 and it's many expansions. One of the greatest appeals of this 
 title, for me at least, is that it takes place in the current day. While fighting in Oman may seem 
 a little odd considering we're at war with a country near that location, at least there aren't 
 any damn lasers. Ethical questions aside, Dice has managed to give us a game that is fun, consistant, 
 and enjoyable. 
  
  Story- I don't think there is one. It's crap, this game is basically online only, unless you have 
 more than five friends in which case you can LAN it up. Odds are if you play this game, or are 
 reading my reviews that you don't fall under that category. 
  
  Online- This is where the game really earns it's stripes. Before we get into the game, know that 
 you have a rank, that increases with each victory, flag capture, kill, revive, or in the case of 
 the unbalanced engineer, you get a point after repairing a bridge with a wrench and healing 37 
 cars back to a condition greater than when they were produced. This adds incentive to the player, 
 as instead of feeling like you're wasting 3 hours a night playing a game you feel like you're wasting 
 3 hours a night to earn a rank. I'm already a higher rank than my father who is in the national 
 guards - Get on your knees and get deez pop! The only complaints I have with the online games are 
 the lag, which is bound to happen. Also, maps with jets or helicopters quickly turn into constant 
 deaths at the hands of some goon who can fly a jet. This gets old so I'm pretty much limited to 
 the more urban maps. I've noted that it's not only I who is jaded, as virtually every server is 
 infantry only, meaning no vehicles. While I think that's kinda cool, vehicles are part of BF2 and 
 without them they turn into sniper-fests. 
  
  Visuals- You may want to sit down for this one, but... BF2 has glitches. Yes, I know, shock. There 
 are a couple. First is the body gets stuck halfway in the ground... I'll let it slide if that didn't 
 mean that if you're prone in a room your feet go through the wall, which means people can shoot 
 your feet and kill you. Hmmm. There is also the problem of being revived without your gun with 
 your arms out looking like a ravenous zombie, which, I think was unintentional, but it's purely 
 a visual problem so it's not that big of a deal. Otherwise the graphics are pretty good for an 
 "older" game.
  
  Gameplay- BF2 is basically Call Of Duty 4 but less arcadey, yeah I said it. Reloads are slower, 
 which makes it important for you to know how many shots you've fired. Headshots are generally one 
 shot one kill (cue Dying Fetus) , especially with sniper rifles. I find the damage to be consistant, 
 and everything more or less balanced. I've played this game for almost 400 hours and I still play 
 it without that much frustration, so that says something. 
  
  Replay value- Again, I've played this a lot and don't see a reason why I wouldn't play it, until 
 BF3 comes out or I grow a vagina and buy BF2142... Mech Warriors?! Ugh. Regardless, I recommend 
 this, as it's a solid FPS, that combines the right amount of ridiculous action with a smidgen of 
 actual strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatmy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 Hooah!
  
  10  1 = single mission sucks. Many consumers felt cheated and shocked when having game because 
 it is designed for multiplayer mode rather than single player mode. And the game never tells consumer 
 properly and the tell was made by the retailer labelling to inform their intention buying customer.
 
  
  10  1 = unrealistic assault and defend warfare. Here u go with these some of the great example. 
 Arty strike as u like as far as bombardment at carrier deck. Lol. Carrier air defend system sucks 
 as missiles can hit own deck and allowing a great location for bombing run. Stupid flag capturing 
 which is allowing enemies to be known. Hi, come get some, I am here already. UAV  can't be taken 
 down with A2A capabilities? Silly SAT Track  no SAT in the world can track a vast area at one 
 time go. SAM sites and weapons are DUMP at hitting target! All sniper rifles have zooming function 
 but not in BF2. Soldier running is silly because no running is limited when facing danger. We will 
 run as fast as we could even it is slow in running. Machine gun and APC gun temperatures are ridiculer 
 easily hot especially with 2000's technology todate. TOW or Mounted MG is exposed to enemies firing. 
 Retarded mag reloading. Firing range is out of standard specification range. Best of All, Aircraft 
 Carrier No2 is INVINISBLE and it cannot be destroyed by any kind of force. Haha.
  
  10  1 = Unrealistic ranking system, medals and awards and scores point.
  
  10  1 = Clumsy 
 multiplayer mode. Many cheats happened on RANKED Server which turn off many decent and ordinary 
 player. Aimbot, spawnbot. Lol. Proud to say I have never cheat on a single play in multiplayer 
 mode yet. Hehehe.
  
  10 + 2.5 = Best effort and excellent jobs were put in to create this game. Commander feature is 
 a excellent piece of work but lack of displinary feature to control soldiers, say refusal of obey 
 or HOLD FAST soldier. Mutiny is fun but not realistic cos everyone can mutiny as they like. Court 
 Martial should include in this game.
  
  Therefore 10  1  1  1  1 + 2.5 = 8.5 That's my favourite BF2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VsemPizdetz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Battefield 2 nearly a year now and it is still grasping for every aspect. However, 
 I do not like the fact the body must sustain so many bullets before completely terminating (dying) . 
 I absolutely hate that the only way a sniper can achieve a one shot kill... is in the head. Why 
 not the body? I also hate that the bullets in BF2 can barely reach the distance of 200m where in 
 real life, a standard assault rifle can reach distances of 400m. A sniper rifle can reach 1km in 
 standard where in BF2... nearly 300m. The pistol does barely any damage too. The fog in the Arab 
 territories is ridiculous causing the line of sight unrealisticly near. And the map selection is 
 too limited meaning it is either the Desert cities in the Middle East or some Summer environment 
 near or in China. There is no snow maps or actual city maps. The vehicles are too limited and the 
 Russian arsenal for MEC was underestimated. The SVD is completely and utterly unrealistic causing 
 barely any damage for its category. Also, the promotion requirements are too unrealistic as well 
 and not much benefiting. I also must agree that when taking out a tank or aircraft, how much hits 
 you take to take it out with Anti Air guns or Rocket launchers, is hilarious. 
  
  But this game is the best I ever played. I can go on with critisicm however this game doesn't deserve 
 it. Must get for anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the battlefield series. And this game isn't at all disappointing to 
 it. If anything its a step upwards. If you've ever played a battlefield game before. You should 
 know this game isn't much different from that. But there are many added features which make it 
 even more awesome. You can now earn medals depending on how good you do witha certain weapon or 
 if you win a gold medal during a fight. The game also has a new Squad feature, Which allows you 
 to have more of a strategy in the game, not to mention it allows the mic feature to activate. You 
 can also view other people states and compare them to your own. AS a added bonus, You can unlock 
 weapons to be used in Multi-player ( Which should be the thing you do the most) Without Multi-player 
 this game really isn't meant to be played.
  
  The graphics have improved a lot and the Sound is impeccable.
  
  This game is perfect for FPS 
 fans. And if you're new to the series or FPS type games. This wont disappoint you.
  
  If you found this review to be useful, Please recommend it. Thanks for reading.
  
  Gameplay: 
 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound/Music: 8
  Replay Value: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mullen15
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 20, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  Just to start out I orginally gave this game a 10. But I ran into minor problems and decided to 
 boot it down to a 9.5 Well lately all I have got is problems. Either is my ping is to high (but 
 it wasn't a month ago) . So its not my internet because I have alot of online game which my ping 
 averages about 55. Or its punkbuster giving me some lame @ss error message.
  
  I still can't get the booster packs to work either. I was on the phone with EA trying to get them 
 but all they showed me how to do is slam my head off the keyboard.
  
  Still I think the gameplay is awesome but all these issues and bugs can drive a man to drink. I 
 have almosthave more hours put in trouble shooting.
  Then shooting at terriosts. 
  
  I think its time to delete this from my hard disk and move on with my life. Then hope that Battlefield 
 3 isn't a disseased infested piece of crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLordRagnarok
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a very solid shooter. That's it in a nutshell. The gameplay is very nice, allowing 
 you to pick from the classes Special Forces, Sniper, Assault, Support, Engineer, Medic or Anti-Tank 
 within the factions of USMC (United States Military Corps) , China's PLA (People's Liberation Army 
 and the MEC (Middle Eastern Coalition) . There are many vehicles that can be controlled, from dune 
 buggies and boats to tanks and jet fighters. The only bad thing I can think of with the gameplay 
 is that there is only one game mode-Get flags at the flagpoles. While there are variations of this, 
 it is basically the same idea. The multiplayer is also a very good part of the game. You can go 
 into battle with up to 64 different players, and there are extra maps for download in multiplayer. 
 Online also offers the use of a microphone for talking with allies. Overall, Battlefield 2 is a 
 great FPS and if you don't have it, at least try it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: souljaboy_101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  battleflied 2 is a online shooter base in modern times , it buts you in the foot steps of a us 
 marin , the midle eastrn armys and of the chines people's army , and the game has just 3 steps 
 assult conquer and death , there are over 12 maps , 2 booster pack and 1 expansion site , that 
 is the tootal of 8 armys and over 21 maps , this game is like a modern star wars battlefont that 
 means there are classes of troops like assult , spec-ops , sniper, anti tank, medic, support , 
 there are 1 weapons unlock for each class . this is a good game , i highly recomend.
  
  ...................  ..  .... . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . ........ .... ....... 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...... ...... 
 . .. 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 00 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 00 0 00 0 0 0 00 00 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 
 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doubledoi
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  o where do i begin in telling you how good this game is. First off, the graphics aren't too shabby 
 on this game. sure they aren; t as good as cod4, but there are alot mor features which makes this 
 game much better then call of duty 4. First, there is hardly any lag. In bf2 i hardly ever expierienced 
 any lag at all. This made it a much funner expierience then call of duty (in which i lagged in) . 
 Another cool thing is that you can pick ur spawn point. This helps because in cod4 you spawn randomoly 
 and could spawn right next to an enemy. This factor makes the gameplay of the game a whole lot 
 better then in cod4. this also makes it more realistic, because in real war you come from your 
 base into battle, not appear randomly next to an enemy. Another cool feature which i lofe about 
 this game is that YOU have a choice of which weapons to get on ur unlocks (when u get promoted) . 
 in cod4 you dont choose your unlocks they are assigned as you progress. bf2 has alot more freedom. 
 Finally, the ranking system keeps you interested and having fun. They make it alot tougher to get 
 promoted on this game, which could be a good or bad thing depending on the user. You could be playing 
 cod4 for less then a year and already get to the highest lvl possible. Why would you play after 
 that? In bf2 i had the game for over a year and am only a master seargant (which is in between the 
 highest and lowest ranks) . plus as you progress the levels get harder. all in all, the choice of 
 weapons, the spawn points, lag free and ranking system make this game a much better game then cod4.
 
  
  foeva keepin it real,
  
  da phh (playa hata hatas)
  
  p. s. da phh is my gang and dont be hatin on it lest u wanna wind up in a hospital wit a docta ova 
 you sayin u got capped!!!! p out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkster91
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  If you like first person shooter, modern warfare and multiplayer games, then BF2 is just for you!
 
  
  From deserts to jungles to Middle Eastern wartorn cities, BF2 has a huge variety of maps. You can 
 play as the Russians, British SAS, Americans, or Chinese or Middle Eastern Coalition (I think, 
 you'll have to check on that one :P)
  
  Theres a great variety of weapons to choose from. The vehicles are fun to drive, and if you're 
 in a tank, you can absolutely pawn everyone!
  
  Although some people say that vehicles in BF2 are overpowered, I think they're just right and vehicles 
 should be more powerful such as tanks as they are in real life.
  
  However, if you should feel frustrated from constantly getting bombarded by shell fire from tanks, 
 you can choose to play in infantry only servers and there are plenty of those.
  
  The only problems i can think of with BF2 are the long loading times for each map, the server browser 
 is slightly buggy and still hasn't been fixed. It USED to require pretty high system requirements, 
 but you can quite easily get relatively cheap PC components to be able to play this game on at 
 least medium graphics settings and it looks just fine, you don't need to max out all settings as 
 it doesn't make a huge difference but low settings does look a bit crap imo.
  
  There are 7 different classes for each of the 4 armies, more than enough variety. My favourite 
 is medic, becoz i love healing people and running around with a defibrillator and shocking people 
 back to life a. k. a. reviving them.
  
  There are still a huge number of people who play BF2. There are over 700 populated servers on average 
 any given moment, so you can easily find a server playing your favorite map.
  
  Oh and plus there's a nice awarding system where you can get ranks and upgrade to get other weapons 
 and unlock them. Gives you more reason to play and have fun completing achievements and something 
 to shoot for.
  To summarize, a great multiplayer shooter. Although graphics are a bit outdated now, it still looks 
 good. And this game is definitely worth its cheap price now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greyzhaze
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  A classic capture-the-node-and-hold-it formula mixed with a variety of MODERN DAY vehicles and 
 equipment really make you feel involved in the battle.
  
  The AI this time around actually listen to orders, provided you have some patience working the 
 system if you are new to the series. With that said, the learning curve is 30 minutes. Vehicles 
 behave and handle as you would expect them to. Load up the infantry and rush to the front or bunker 
 up at the flag and hold the position is what its about. You combine this with a basic form of RTS 
 via your map view and dedicate squads to assault or defend, launch an artillery strike on an enemy 
 position while dropping supplies to repair vehicles for the assault.
  
  Vehicles include your buggies, humvees, tanks, aa tanks, jets and the all-mighty helicopters. The 
 helicopters are the hardest to work, taking at least 1 hour to get used to, thereafter, they become 
 the angel of death on the battlefield. Mastering the chopper is a mighty feet in its own right.
 
  
  As before, you have specialised troops, from the medic, engineer, sniper, support to spec ops, 
 each with their own weapons and abilities. Strategy actually plays a role and a formula can work 
 only so many times if playing with AI. Thats right, the AI is improved.
  
  All in all, my fingers are focused on W, A, S, D and I need to get back to it. GREAT GAME.
  
  
 SUPPORT THE CREATORS AND BUY THE ORIGINAL PLEASE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcusnjunk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  There's so many thing that is good about this game, I almost don't know where to start. The first 
 is that this game has focused on team play, and it does it extremly well. It has well balanced 
 game play in every way.
  For you that complaines about that the weapons are a little underpowered, I say it's supposed to 
 be like that! If the weapons were overpowered it would mean that if you were beeing shot at, you 
 would die earlier. I think they made the best choice.
  The maps are very well done. It seems they have focused to make the environment realistic. Works 
 perfect for me. Yes, I know people have complained about that the landscapes are not that dramatic.
 
  
  The sound effects are the best I've heard in a game. There are so many different effects that you 
 don't think of.
  
  Graphics are awesome! Very well done engine. The best I've seen. Details rocks! If you compare 
 this and other games this crushes them like nothing. I have tested newer games like Quake Wars 
 for an example. BF2 wins uber easy.
  Just look at the rag dolls. wow.
  
  Everything in this game oozes quality, with the last patch. It didn't before I say...
  I've spent 
 about 3,000 hours untill this date playing this! Never bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is one of the greatest online games ever, and it still is. The Battlefield series 
 is amazing and BF2 is the best of the best. The objective of the game is to capture as many of 
 the flag points as possible for your army while stopping the opposing army do the same thing.
 
  
  BF2 is a modern-warfare shooter. So the weapons in the game are all weapons used today and all 
 vehicles are also one's used today. Ah, vehicles. BF2, like the over games in the series features 
 loads of vehicles for each army. Tanks, jeeps, helicopters, jets, boats, APCs... lots of variety. 
 The weapons are all different for each army too, and the armies are: USA, China and MEC (the Middle 
 East Colation) . All of these armies are balanced so you cant really complain which army you are 
 on.
  
  The maps are huge on 64 player battles- they look very realistic and are packed full of buildings 
 to enter, towers to climb, hills, mountains, forests... they vary depending on what map. All the 
 maps are different. One thing you may notice is the graphics. BF2 is graphically stunning if your 
 PC is powerful enough. This game looks amazing, seriously. Textures, lighting, effects, it's all 
 good and it's all there.
  
  Sound is one great thing about the game too. Each army talks whatever language the country they 
 are from speaks and the sound effects themselves (gun shots, explosions, helicopters flying around 
 etc) are fantastic too. The whole game is one immence experience as you'll experience jets and 
 helicopters flying ahead, troops fighting on land, snipers in the hills, tank battles and even 
 naval battles.
  
  The main new feature to Battlefield 2 is the Commander mode. Here, you can tell your team where 
 to attack, call in artillery and generally boss people about. You get voted for this rank so you 
 need to be a decent player generally, that's when offline mode comes in.
  
  Offline mode is recommended as a practice for online or being commander etc. This is however, my 
 only real complaint about the game. In previous BF games you could have up to 64 bots playing in 
 a battle, now, you can only have 16 and this also means the map size has been reduced. The AI is 
 much better than before though. Another down point is the online obsession with helicopters- often 
 you get killed by someone in a helicopter as soon as you respawn.
  
  Overall, this is the best multiplayer shooter I own and have ever played. I even prefer it to Counter-Strike 
 Source! This is a must for any online gamer, especially if you like shooters.
  
  Pros:
  +Immersive online experience
  +Amazing combat
  +Loads of different vehicles
  +3 very different 
 armies
  +Stunning graphics and sound
  +Improved single-player AI
  
  Cons:
  -Really long load times even on a good PC
  -You can only have 16 player battles offline
  -Getting 
 killed by a helicopter every 5 seconds is not fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enesjusufi
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  Highly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly 
 Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly 
 Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly 
 Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly 
 Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly 
 Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly 
 Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly 
 Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly 
 Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly 
 Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly 
 Addictive Highly Addictive
  Highly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly 
 Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly 
 Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly 
 Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly 
 Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly 
 Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly 
 Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly 
 Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly 
 Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly 
 Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly Addictive Highly AddictiveHighly 
 Addictive Highly Addictive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scooder
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This is EAs cream of the crop, the uber win.
  
  Battlfield 3 lets you do whatever you can imagine a soldier do in order to take that flag and kill 
 those guys by it! guns, tanks, choppers, jets, artillery, its all at your disposal.
  
  The game has 3 levels of unlocks for each gun, meaning alot of replay value.
  
  no one game 
 is the same! strike at karkand can be a new experience every time!
  
  nice squad feature, with voice com, and the commander will give your squads orders.
  
  theres 
 only a few minor complaints.
  
  1. there are some tiny bugs. like gun sounds on other guys will continue even if theyve stopped 
 shooting, and sometimes the gasmask will float over peoples heads.
  
  2. it takes a really, REALLY REALLY long time to rank up once you hit the seargents. seriously, 
 it can take you literally 5 months to upgrade from gunnery seargent even if you play on a regular 
 basis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGT4EVA
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  This is defiantly one of the best games ever made and defiantly one of the best online multiplayers 
 i cant stop playing and wont stop playing, i recommend this game to anyone who is an extreme pc 
 gamer. when you first start playing you can see that its gonna be a good game, then once you get 
 used to the controls you get to be better and want to play more and more and more until you literly 
 die of starvation, but really this is such a fun game, i can go hours on end and it wont even feel 
 like i have been playing that long, and for only 10 bucks! how could you go wrong!? just make sure 
 you have a pretty decent graphic card or gameplay will be a little choppy, but still fun as always, 
 and if you have a pretty fast comp you can get into games in under a minute just like me, which 
 means more gameplay
  
  
  
  
  
  WUT ARE YOU WAITING FOR!?!?!!?? GO GET IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomasp94
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  Where to begin... I have been playing this game since it came out, and it is one of, if not the 
 best muliplayer FPS to date. There are so many Pros to this game it's hard to find a place to start. 
 The graphics are great, and yet, they are not very taxing on the system. The Sound effects are 
 pretty average at best. But the game play is where this game excels.
  
  There is a massive number of maps and servers to play on and any given time. The maps are huge, 
 up to 64 players on one map. You don't really have a set objective, it all depends on how you want 
 to play. Of course the main goal of each game is to take and hold all your enemy's flags, or to 
 inflict more casualties on their team, then they do onto you. There are no missions or campaigns 
 in BF2, so if you are not into online playing then you might as well pass on this game. The single 
 player game is pathetic. You only get to play against mindless bots on the smallest of maps sizes, 
 16 players.
  
  You will be able to play as a number of different kits, including, Special Forces, Assault, Medic, 
 Anti-Tank, Engineer, and Sniper. All the kits have unique features that you will use to contribute 
 to your team. For instance, as a medic, you will be able to revive and heal players on your team. 
 As an engineer you will be able to fix vehicles and put down mines. 
  
  One of the best features of this game is that you are rewarded for your work. Not only are you 
 playing and having fun with up to 63 other live people, but for every kill you make, every person 
 you heal, you will receive points toward your global score. These points will allow you to unlock 
 new and more powerful weapons, they will advance you through a military rank system, and you will 
 get badges and medals for special achievements. If you want to take command of your entire team, 
 the higher you are in rank, the better chance you will have of winning a commander election.
  
  There are many different way to play in BF2. You can go off on your own as a 'lone wolf' and 
 never talk to anyone and do what and go where you wish. Or you can create or join a squad and work 
 as a small team with in your team. When you are in a squad you have the ability to spawn where 
 ever your squad leaders is, making it easy to keep together. The squad leader can receive orders 
 from the commander and can also give separate orders to his squad members. 
  
  The action in BF2 is non stop, this is helped by the way you re-enter the game after dying. In 
 mission style games, you will start back where you last saved, or all the way back at the beginning 
 of the game. In BF2, after you die, you will have to option of spawning at any of your teams flags, 
 or if you are in a squad, you will be able to spawn on your squad leaders location. You have about 
 15 seconds between your death and your new spawn. In this time you will have the opportunity to 
 select a spawn location, and the ability to change your kit. So you don't have to go through the 
 whole game as the same thing. 
  
  Battlefield 2 does have some downfalls though. It's creator EA Games has horrible support. And 
 the last patch for the game was released years ago. This game is notoriously picky about hardware, 
 though at this point and time it should be less of a problem than it was when the game first released. 
 When the game first released the game only worked on select video cards. And even if you met the 
 system requirements, some times the game still just would not work. But with the release of the 
 last patch in 2006 the game is pretty well fixed. You will still see a glitch here and there, but 
 the major problem from years ago have been fixed for the most part. 
  
  If you are into the FPS series of game you must pick this up. You can get it for $10 at Wal-Mart. 
 Or for about $30 you can get the main game and all 3 expansion packs. I would recommend getting 
 the set for $30. You get more maps and more rewards. See you on the Battlefield! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErkiB
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Great maps and great online gameplay like no other. I like the overall game and the things you can 
 do .great shooting game but could have been better. some tweaks im not gonna mention but overall 
 I think this is a great game but the new expansion doesnt do this game justice just for minor tweaks... the 
 lag isnt horrible but happens sometimes. sound is cool with the good combination of great controls 
 and exciting territories.
  
  Top 5 Ratings:
  Graphics:8/10
  Sound:8/10
  Maps:9/10
  Gameplay:8.5/10
  Fun:7.5/10
  
  Cool games are often done by copying some other game and it 
 is usually the case but this game has come up from the dirt and has been a big hit in every store 
 so far as I know.
  
  I just know that this game is plain and simple but does take some time to learn how to drive all 
 of the machines and all guns have different rates so its alot of fun to learn those things with 
 greta pleasrue of having a fun war and a great game system that will make you really happy you 
 bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunder350
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  It honestly is impossible for me to not recommend this game to anyone. The gameplay is tight and 
 fun that will provide anyone with hours and hours of enjoyment. You can easily play for a few hours 
 or minutes and come away with a smile on your face. Even if your team comes out losing, you'll 
 still be bragging on how you slapped some C4 on an enemy helicopter or some other amazing moment.
 
  
  The only flaws that I've found in the game are the auto-balance rules where sometimes a squad leader 
 or commander is automatically switched without warning and the Online Game Browser. The game browser 
 does what it is supposed to do, but it could have been so much better, it shows wrong ping information, 
 and doesn't show correctly the stats of the server. A buddy lists would have been really nice. 
 And there are the occasional glitches you run into, but nothing that stops the game from working.
 
  
  Other than that this game can be summed up in one word... Awesome. If you don't have a headset 
 with a microphone I suggest getting one. There is no better feeling than communicating with your 
 squad and working together to outwit the enemy. The graphics are still impressive, even tho outdated. 
 This game will give you more bang for your buck than most other games on the market. Even with 
 the bugs in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floridajoe03
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  Intro: Battlefield 2 has been one of those long awaited games. After the huge sucess for Battlefield 
 1942 the Gaming World has been hanging on for a sequal, and finally it is here. Many people love 
 it, but I personally was quite disappointed in it. I will write this review non-biased though as 
 not everyone is interested in single player.
  
  Graphics 8/10:
  As you would expect the graphics are beautiful and flawless. The only problem is some of scenery 
 seems a little lacking or empt in some places. Soldiers stay true to there form and are easily 
 distinguishable between the teams. Also whichever kit you play, its is easy to tell you a part 
 so you won't have any mix ups. Scenery has been improved from 1942, having more variety and making 
 it more interesting than just some plain walls.
  
  Gameplay 
  Single Player Gameplay 2/10:
  Multiplayer Gameplay 8/10:
  The games engine has not been changed 
 from the basics that were so loved in BF1942, all the basics are there, good movement, vehicle 
 driving and shooting. Almost everything has been improved too. No longer will you crash an aeroplane 
 or helicopter into a wall, well not as much anyway, the flight system has been vastly improved 
 and controlling an aircraft is much easier with a mouse and keyboard. You also have your own original 
 kits; Assullt (Close range weapons, smoke grenades) , Sniper, Anti-Tank, Medic, Engineer. There are 
 also some new kits such as the special forces. Weaponary has improved and is more accurate to fire 
 and less frustrating, however it is harder to get a pinpoint shot on your target as many weapons 
 are without a targeting reticule.
  Ground vehicles are also improved. They drive a lot more easily and weapons on them make a lot 
 more sense in their positoning. However moving in between driving a vehicle and using a weapon 
 is not nearly as simple as in BF1942, if you are new to the series though, I doubt you will find 
 it a problem. You still have your classic game mode which is mostly conquest, in which you must 
 drain your opponents tickets by killing them and controlling the majority of flags on the map.
 
  Now, my major problem with this game; the lack of a single player mode. You still have instant 
 battle where you can take on some bots on some maps for practice, but there is no longer a campaign 
 mode, everything is multiplayer over the net. So, you could go verse some bots by yourself, but 
 there is nothing to accomplish at all in single player.
  In multiplayer you get to play across the net against other humans. You get stats to updatye and 
 tou can also win wards through doing various things on a ranked server, such as highest score in 
 the team, best teamwork etc. However, if your computer fits the minimum requirements or only has 
 512RAM, then you may as well forget mutliplayer, you will get a lot of lag, even over broadband 
 or ADSL. Also, many servers will kick you if your ping is too high which can be frustrating.
  
  Sound 8/10:
  Typical battlefield. No background music at all, just sound effects from gusbn, 
 movement etc. All well done though. Come on EA, just some soft background music would be nice!
 
  
  Replay Value 7/10:
  Seen you get to play online and try to win awards there is virually on end, so much value to the 
 game. However, eventually you will probably win all the awards and then the game becomes a bit 
 pointless, unless you start a new profile, which will keep you interested. Obviously one-playr 
 has little value at all as it is really only for practice.
  
  Conclusion 7.5/10:
  Battlefield 2 is a great game, don't get me wrong, but its lack of single player was a huge disppointment 
 for me and playing online could only interest me for so long. But if you don't have a high spe4ed 
 net connection, or only fit the minmum requirements, or were a big fan of campaign mode in BF1942, 
 then seriously don't consider buying this game. If you don't care about single-palyer then go buy 
 it, if your only interested in multiplayer, you can't really go wrong with BF2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gurgel2
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  No brainless COD4 chaos - as much teamplay as anyone ever accomplished to cramp in there. Best 
 damn FPS EVER.
  
  No brainless COD4 chaos - as much teamplay as anyone ever accomplished to cramp in there. Best 
 damn FPS EVER.
  
  No brainless COD4 chaos - as much teamplay as anyone ever accomplished to cramp in there. Best 
 damn FPS EVER.
  
  No brainless COD4 chaos - as much teamplay as anyone ever accomplished to cramp in there. Best 
 damn FPS EVER.
  
  No brainless COD4 chaos - as much teamplay as anyone ever accomplished to cramp in there. Best 
 damn FPS EVER.
  
  No brainless COD4 chaos - as much teamplay as anyone ever accomplished to cramp in there. Best 
 damn FPS EVER.
  
  No brainless COD4 chaos - as much teamplay as anyone ever accomplished to cramp in there. Best 
 damn FPS EVER.
  
  No brainless COD4 chaos - as much teamplay as anyone ever accomplished to cramp in there. Best 
 damn FPS EVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trombonedude13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is what every war game should be like. With the exception of the pathetic 1 player mode, 
 the multiplayer system in this game was years ahead of its time. Before i played this game, the 
 most hours i had ever put into a game was probably around 100 and that's a final fantasy game. 
 I put more than 300 in BF2 alone. Towards the end of my playing this, i had multiple friends who 
 would come over, and everyone get their headsets on and squad up, and would just play for hours. 
 We even dedicated certain days of the week as "Battlefield 2 night". If you haven't played this 
 game yet, your missing a life-changing event. After you experiene BF, you'll compare every other 
 war game EVER to this one. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay system in this game is just stunning. You can do anything from running around 
 on foot with an AK-47 to flying F-16's and dropping bombs, to cruisin' around in a boat with a 
 machine gun on it. Hook up with a few friends, give em' all tanks, and you can definitely have 
 some fun. Dying you say? Not a problem. You just respawn back at designated spawning points. The 
 game doesn't make you wait around for 30 mins until everyone dies off like on CS. Blah on that. 
 This game is all around awesome. You can even get it for 20 bucks now, and there's nothing that 
 can beat that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tvov
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I still can't get enough of this game, after years of playing it. The online experience, with a 
 good squad (using VOIP ingame voice communication) , can be breathtaking. To me, this is a VERY 
 different game than BF42 and its' Desert Combat mod. Some people may consider it a little difficult 
 to figure out the controls, but they are similar to most other PC fps games. There are a lot of 
 little things to learn about the game -- where to hit armored vehicles, how accuracy increases 
 with aiming, how to use explosives, how anti-aircraft missles work, etc. I think this just increases 
 the attraction of the game -- the more you play, the more you learn. 
  
  There are a large variety of vehicles to use -- land, air, and water. A lot of maps are available, 
 and the different sizes available for each map changes the gameplay. 
  
  Graphics are great, even with settings on "low", which you may have to do with anything less than 
 a top of the line gaming computer for smooth gameplay. If you can use the higher graphics settings, 
 the graphics become fantastic. 
  
  It is hard to describe how good this game really is!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deltawing777
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  this game is challenging in more ways then one. online u battle in highly populated rooms and find 
 alot of cheaters but the overall fast pace battles are great. not one person can go through this 
 game without sitting there for less than 3 hours. i would aslo recommend battlefield 1942 although 
 i lacks the detail and is less fast paced the overall game play is as follows. fun to play and 
 very addictive. both games are ones u get on during the weekends and play with friends meet new 
 ones and have rivalries. they are games u sit down to with a minifridge full of beer and a bucket 
 to piss in. these games are ones that u cant sit down to and just walk away u get drawn in so quickly 
 before u know it 5-6 hours have past. the game has highly improved as far as controls flying controls 
 and respons time. the weapons are also modern. the game also allows a person to move in rank unlock 
 many new weapons and win medals. the game also allows u to see over all kills with what weapons 
 vehicles and equipment group. the sniper rifles reaction time improved from bf1942 where u would 
 squeeze a round off and there would be a delay. over all its worth playing i highly recommend anyone 
 who plays i highly recommend for those who enjoy fast paced first person war shootersgames online 
 to buy this one u wont be dissappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I played Battlefield 2, days with no end in no sight. I would play for at least 39 days straight 
 before taking a break. I stopped playing the game with the rank first Sergeant and a navy cross, 
 3 expert badges, 13 veteran badges, and all normal badges. I had all the weapons except 2, the 
 scar and l96a1. I would mostly play karland 24/7, Kubra Dam 24/7 and Sharqi Peninsula maps allot. 
 Like everybody else like me we would be a medic allot to get points faster. Everyone played multiplayer 
 Battlefield 2 all the time because single player had no point in playing it. It didn't even have 
 a scenario to play through and beat to see some credits. Ea should have at least made something 
 better for single player or instead making a useless single player option added more multiplayer 
 maps. The loading times during maps changes or joining a server were long for some people when 
 the game first came out because back then we had less than 256 Megs of ram instead of today of 
 2 gigs or more of ram. Battlefield 2 graphic setting's were always on medium and some people don't 
 really see true graphical detail at these settings, when on high setting's you more details like 
 shadows, garbage, lights and lines, dents and shapes in roads. Battlefield 2 can be a long game 
 if you're trying to be a general you have to be nuts to play it every day for a year or more. Punk 
 buster on some servers became very bad option to have on it kicks you from a server every couple 
 of min s if you're not really lagging or have a high ping. 
  
  Overall Battlefield 2 may be highly addictive but you may get stressed from playing it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Private_Adam
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 29, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  (This review is based on current version 1.41)
  
  Battlefield 2 is an first person shooter on a computer thats allows you to play as United States 
 Marine Corps (USMC) , People's Liberation Army of China (PLA) , and Middle Eastern Coalition (MEC) . 
 
  
  The ranking system in battlefield 2 is great. It allows you to keep track of how many kills you 
 got, how many hours you have spend playing battlefield 2, and there is many other things that you 
 can keep track of. You can received awards, like medals, badges, and ribbons. If you meet the requirements 
 for an reward, then you will get the award while playing the game. You can also gain ranks by killing 
 enemies, helping your team getting flags, and using teamwork.
  
  You can become a squad leader, squad member or even commander. If you choose to become a squad 
 leader then you can give orders to your squad members. If you choose to become a squad member then 
 you can just follow your squad leaders orders. Also if you choose to become a commander then you 
 can give orders to squad leaders, drop supplies, drop a transport vehicle, and fire artillery.
 
  
  Most of the vehicles are balanced. The only vehicle I would say is unbalanced is the People's Liberation 
 Army of China (PLA) J-10 Fighter. If you are flying against J-10 Fighter then it's difficult to 
 shot it down, but it's possible. Other vehicles like tanks, transport vehicles, and helicopters 
 are balanced. 
  
  The weapons are balanced in the game. You can also unlock new weapons by just playing the game. 
 You can unlock up to seven new weapons. Once you get promoted you will be able to receive a new 
 weapon.
  
  Most of the maps are fun, big and enjoyable maps to play on. If you like those kind of games then 
 you should give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthLamchop
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 was one of the greatest shooters that i played on the PC. I thought the graphics 
 were kinda bad, and the way to issue commands was really hard to get used to. Battlefield 2 changed 
 all of that, the graphics are really great, nice explosions, nice weapon details, and you issue 
 commands by pressing the Q button on the keyboard making this a lot easier. BF2 is a lot better 
 that 1942 in my opinion, because of all the great changes, and FINALLY moving on from the past 
 (1942) and coming to the modern battlefield. This is better than BF2 Vietnam Redux, and it's also 
 better than 2142. The sound in this gme is also great, and the many vieichiles and weapons make 
 this game really stand out.
  I love flying around the airplanes, or rigging the enemy's cars up with C4, or sniping the helicopter 
 gunners right out of the chopper. This game is truly one of my favorite all time FPS games to date. 
 The online mode is pretty awesome also, you can search for specific filters (no vehicles, or certain 
 maps) . This game also includes a great ranking system, you slowy rank up classes, and can get better 
 weapon unlocks which add some great replay value to this game. It is really addicting, I still 
 play this game and I plan to for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gedz
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is quite simply... awesome!! The game is just so innovative. The first time I played 
 this game, I knew it was something special. OK... so the loading time is excessively long. But come 
 on, after the game had loaded, I forgot about the time wasted waiting. The game was so mind-blowing; 
 the action was so intense I do not quite know where to start this review. 
  
  Well, I guess I will start with the graphics. One word comes to mind... beautiful. You may not think 
 they are as good as some other games out, but the graphics matched with the sound and the game 
 play, and for me this was the perfect package. 
  
  The sound, well, they are as good as any game I have played. I guarantee if you play this game 
 with the sound at max, you will wet yourself. The sounds of this game are quite simply stunning. 
 The creators of this game really captured the sounds very well. The guns sound extremely realistic 
 and the voices made me feel like I was really in this battle.
  
  Now onto the game play. The game play is awesome. I felt so comfortable playing this game. It was 
 like no other first person shooter I have played. The action was amazing, but with the ability 
 to communicate with teammates made even better. To call for a medic and the ability to request 
 for more ammo just added to the great feel this game gave me. Also, the ability to be squad leader 
 and even a commander added another dimension to this game for me. With this, you have the ability 
 to order your troops to attack or defend etc. It was great. You can also call in for supplies, 
 even an artillery strike. This took my breath away.
  
  The vehicles available in this game added even more excitement, from the basic humvee and APC, 
 to high power tanks, attack helicopters and fighter planes. This really gave me an adrenaline rush. 
 But be warned, piloting helicopters and planes takes quite the bit of practice as I found out!!
 
  Single-player is fun, with a fair number of maps and literally endless possibilities in your strategy 
 (no set mission objectives) , this mode is very enjoyable. However, the computer AI can be quite 
 stupid. In one instance, AI soldiers are running circles around each other trying to stab each 
 other. Something I doubt you would see in a real battlefield. This kind of ruined the feel of the 
 game for me.
  
  Battlefield 2 is really for multiplayer action. With all the benefits mentioned above, multiplayer 
 games add even more fun. To battle someone who is intelligent and can think for themselves makes 
 this game even more challenging and exciting.
  
  All in all, there is not another first person shooter out on the market today that I would recommend 
 more than Battlefield 2. If you have not played this game yet, you do not know what you are missing. 
 Quite simply an awesome piece of work.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buflonob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game, beatable only via its few flaws.
  
  When someone (i. e. a company) releases a better one it will be a definite 10!
  
  The mother 
 game Battlefield 1942 was a game I knew was special after a minute of playing the demo and damn 
 was I right!
  
  The problem with making the game so accurate in some cases unfortunately makes it uneven in certain 
 areas, especially when certain skills are uneven on teams (Anti-Air being very bad, and jets being 
 too easy to re-arm repair etc)
  
  Attempts to make competitors have been tried but lost due to larger learning curve as weapons are 
 futuristic and therefore illogical before experience. Although some are still good. Some are good 
 but limited to just on-foot battles where Battlefield is many vehicle and foot play also.
  
  Cant wait for Battlefield: Bad Company, its gonna be cool.
  
  Come on EA lets make sure 
 its as balanced as BF1942, looks as good as 2142 and Runs as well as Tetris!!! - NO BUGS, MORE 
 TESTING BEFORE RELEASE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zadakz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  a very very very good game! i really think EA and DICE has made some good work there! love it! 
 the teams are well balanced and all weapons is good except the SMG which has absolutely no power. 
 on the downside there are very big differences between each fractions vehicles (mostly chopper 
 and jet) e. g. the chinese j-10 jet is remarkably faster than the USMC's F-35B! that makes the F-35B 
 pilots flying targets!
  
  OH and BTW its a big shame that most of the maps only are play-able in MP. EA/DICE should make 
 ALL maps in ALL sizes available in SP too. You dont have to read the rest. its just fillings.
 
  
  Man what else can i say. reviews has to be 800 characters long! i think Gamespot should reduce 
 the size a bit. 500 characters is good. very good.
  still not up on the 800 characters needed. sorry guys.
  
  SHOOP DA WOOP
  IMMA CHARGIN MAH 
 LAZER!!!11!!!
  IMMA FIRIN MAH LAZER!!!11!!!
  WOOP I SWALLOWED MAH LAZER!!!11!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukiat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Well in first time, i play this game and i finish it in my brother's house, i was in my house, 
 in the school, in everywhere, thinking ni my next mission, i was impatient for play that game again. 
 In the first time it haves a superb bgraphics, a very good lkan mode, with the comands of team 
 and the graduates of general and soldier, i dont remember it so well, but i can see a stars... 
 (xP)
  
  Gameplay: in the first it's also complicated play this, but then you are fascinate with that and 
 you can't stop of playing, with some errors, too, in first place we can find a poor drive of vehicles, 
 but with a very cool design.
  
  Graphics: thats something fair of the game, is too shallow, with some bad and square things... 
 but another thing to remark it's the design, with a enginner, a sniper, a soldier, and another 
 more, it needs a real work of design, and the wish, thruth.
  
  Sound: its very cool the voices on the radion and the effects on the plain and in the helicopter, 
 This game is Rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: higglefliggle
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  Game plays great on my laptop and will not disappoint you as long as you meet the hardware requirements. 
 As there is no campaign/single player story mode, you can do skirmishes with the AI and that will 
 work out differently each time giving the game ifinite replayability. The online, however, is the 
 real shining gem of this game. If you can find a server with low enough ping this game will be 
 really fun. With integrated PunkBuster software, those little s***s who try to cheat get caught 
 and it helps to keep the game fun. I love being able to play as a Marine, most games stick you 
 as some Army draftee, which sucks. This game offers a variety of different classes you can choose 
 from and an incentive to play the game online in ranked servers so you can unlock more weapons 
 and pwn. Play it. 
  Semper Fi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackhawk96
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  I think this is a great game with great maps good weapons and wonderful physics and a great online 
 experience. I have played it a lot and I am speaking for everyone when I say EA games have outdone 
 themselves in this franchise but Battlefield 2142 isn't that good and 1942 was better than this 
 one but it is still fun as hell. I am usually playing it as Special Forces and when I can flying 
 the sweet jets and I think there is not many people who can beat me I usually just fly around real 
 low hitting people I see, literally, I also like to maneuver through tight squeezes like the opening 
 under the dam where water goes through if there was any. I have played it alot but not really all 
 that much online or I would have a better ranked guy but I do have a lot of medals. If or when 
 they make another one they need to make it more like the first one because that one was awesome. 
 I would write a review about that one two but I'm lazy and dont like to write. But anyone that 
 loves computer shooters especially with vehicles and airplanes has to play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 87013
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a fast paced game were there is a lot of action. The graphics of this game are 
 amazing. Sometimes you' ll just have to stop near a vehicle and see all the detail, it' s really 
 nice. 
  
  The only thing that really annoyed me, is, that with a high caliber rifle (mainly refering to the 
 sniper rifles and .50 cal mounted machine guns) you won' t get a kill with one hit, you generally 
 need 2 or more hits. But on the other hand it' s just a game and I think the only reason they did 
 this is to make it more fun.
  
  At first you really get pissed when playing on multiplayer since you' re kind of new to the game 
 and so you' ll die a lot, but when you get the hang of it and become a pro that' s when the fun 
 starts ; ) . 
  
  So if you' re looking for a good first person multiplayer game, then Battlefield 2 would be it. 
 It' s a lot of fun and will always keep you on the edge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikalikali
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is just plain perfect! It has awesome game play, great audio, fun, (but slightly 
 too easy) single-player and the best online multi-player I have ever played. There are some slight 
 lagging problems during online play wth some slower computer but if you have a fast computer with 
 good internet, get this game! With some great weapons, perfect scenery and realistic gun shots, 
 what more cound you ask for? This game is among my top 3 games and possibly at the top of them. 
 I got the Battlefield 2: Complete Collection with BF2, BF2: Special Forces, BF2: Euro Force and 
 BF2: Armored Fury and I havn't even installed the other three. I have been way to addicted with 
 this one! So all up, I say again, this is the perfect game and I think that it is only right that 
 everyone have one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesolateGrave
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for a game that has some of the best multiplayer action out there along with great 
 graphics, Battlefield 2 is your game. However, people looking to play this game on single-player 
 may as well just leave it alone. Battlefield 2 is overall a great game. It has amazing graphics 
 and stunning effects. The sound is also nice, and it can draw you in to the game. However, all 
 these details are costly to your computer. If you have an integrated graphics card, you may as 
 well just leave this game alone until you update. Older computers will not be able to handle Battlefield 
 2. This game IS playable on 512mb of RAM, but you will suffer from terribly slow loading times, 
 and quite a few lag spikes. For optimal performance with all the great visual features on, you 
 will need 1.5 to 2gb of RAM and a fairly new video card. However, this game doesn't need much CPU 
 power, so if your's is decent, you'll be alright. Aside from performance issues with older computers, 
 this game looks great.
  
  Battlefield 2 has fantastic online gameplay. It is very challenging and will take a lot of practice, 
 but it's definitely worth it. As you play through the game, you will unlock multiplayer rewards, 
 some of which include new weapons, medals, and more. These all benefit to the stand-alone great 
 multi-player action this game has to offer.
  
  Although the multi-player is great, as I said before, the single-player leaves a lot to desire. 
 There is basically no campaign, and it lacks much depth. However, you can play a few maps by yourself 
 on single-player and still have a good time. The AI has definitely improved from 1942 and challenges 
 many players, but is not as team-based as many would hope. If you want a great multi-player game, 
 then get this one! Don't buy this game just for single-player. Otherwise, it's a fantastic game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Well BF2 brought some new things the others couldnt to the table. Unlockable weapons and more enemys 
 and different vechicles. The sniper rifles absalutly suck in this game, the M95 which has a 2 mile 
 kill radius takes two shots to the head to kill an opponet and EA never fixed this in any of there 
 patches. And the USMC does not use the M24 SWS, the use the DMR and the M40a3. Also the Mp5 sucks 
 I can hit guy out farther with the Beretta 92FS. and seen as how this game came out in 2005 the 
 pistols should be Kimber Desert Warriors, since the MEUs started adopting them in late 2001. But 
 it more than makes up for this with great AI and maps to play on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: INSANEGRUNT
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  BF2 is the best multi-player FPS out there. The squad feature with built in VOIP is awsome. It 
 really helps keep the game going in a more tacticle direction. EA takes the ranking system very 
 serious and punishment for hackers is severe. Anyone caught hacking or padding will have thier 
 accont wiped clean. So you run into very few! Many new FPS fall short on realism. BF2 with it's 
 selectable kits for Spec-Ops, Medic, Engineer, Sniper, Assault, and Support offers a realism you 
 just cant find any where else. For the most realistic combat experience short of being there BF2 
 will get the blood pumping. experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mc_do_og_le
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 if one of those rare games that will always be fun no matter how long you've played 
 it. It is completely more than balanced enough for anyone to love it and player it. And with the 
 new booster pack the fun has been extended to ensure that you will never get bored. The new weapons 
 and upgrades makes you want to try them all. That goes for vehicles too there is an abundance vehicles 
 for you to mess with. And the team work is so well operated that you'll never be left hanging no 
 matter what situation. The AI is so well made that you will never feel that its too easy and the 
 multiplayer is even better more maps and a whole lot of fun. Every thing is created realistically 
 so you won't feel like things are a little too crazy. And if you still think that this game is 
 your kind of game then you don't know games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lockard34
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This has to be by far the best first person shooter ever the vehicle are great and the sounds and 
 feel of the game is just mind blowing. Gameplay is excellent the shooting and the running and driving 
 all great. Sounds and content the sounds to this is almost like you are the shooter i could be 
 sitting here playing the game and 3 hours goes by and i dident even realize it the graphics like 
 the trees and the water the water is awesome looks so real and the trees move when a plane goes 
 above them eveything interaces just great and finally the online play i have to say is complety 
 insane the people online and friendly and not moneys and alot of competitive players and kool moments 
 wear rockets fly past you or a awesme dogfight in the air with your jet stuff liek that all goes 
 down in the online play this by far this i would recommend to any one even if you dont like first 
 person shooter just give it a chance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViperMelbourne
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a fantastic game that everyone should at least try. Unlike many other shooters 
 which bore me within minutes, Battlefield games just keep me immersed for hours on end. There's 
 such a wide variety of different things to do to be successful and that alone gives this a big 
 edge over its rivals. If you are new to this game, download the demo and play that, the demo is 
 almost like the full game anyway except you only get to play one map.
  
  I could go on about the specifics and fine points of the game but it's better you play it and find 
 out yourself, thats half the fun. Make no mistake though, there are a lot of different roles you 
 can play in this game and master which addes to the extreme depth and value for money.
  
  This game really is deserving of a 10. It blows all other shooters out the water in my opinion, 
 even the newly released ones like Quake or Call Of Duty 4. 
  
  The other good thing about the Battlefield series is all of the games are easy to get into. The 
 controls are easy to learn.
  
  Buy it, own it, play it, love it. :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OQSlStalker
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 4:00 am PT
Review:  How surprising will it be if the winner of the "Battlefield killer" sweepstakes turns out to be... Battlefield 
 2? The more we hear about the modern-day update of Battlefield 1942, the cooler it sounds. D. I. C. E. 
 has made some significant additions to the original's team-based shooter gameplay, so that BF 2 
 stands to offer a much more complex and multi-layered game. For example, all players will now advance 
 in rank, beginning as lowly privates and climbing all the way up through the officer ranks as they 
 accumulate experience. (Character growth will be persistent, carrying over from game to game.) 
 Needless to say, the rises in grade bring special benefits, unlocking new weapons and gear. And 
 the developers are paying attention to those (like me) who enjoy playing with a ver narrow band 
 of the battlefield spectrum; in other words, if your whole goal in life is to run around the battlefield 
 as a medic healing wounded comrades, you'll receive all the same experience rewards as someone 
 who's running around blasting and bombing objectives. Perhaps the principal addition to gameplay 
 is precision-weapons technology. Special Forces classes will have access to laser designators that 
 dramatically improve the accuracy of allied pilots flying over head. Smart teams will learn "combined 
 arms" tactics of getting eyes (and lasers) on a target so that the flyboys can nail the enemy. 
 Similarly, fighter pilots will employ a new arsenal of advanced technology. Jets will have two 
 variations of missile: laser-guided and heat-seeking. Laser-guided missiles are for ground attacks, 
 and rely on Special Forces designators positioned on the ground. For aerial dogfighting, jets will 
 have heat-seeking missiles that can be fired and forgotten. (But enemy pilots will have a realistic 
 counter - by dropping flares, they can try to fool the heat-seeking missiles into taking off after 
 decoys.) The urban environments are convincing and far more detailed than any of the maps in BF 
 1942 or Battlefield Vietnam. While those maps relied on open terrain or claustrophobic jungle, 
 BF2 transports the warfare to intricate cities and built-up areas. As such, tactical acumen will 
 be at a higher premium now - you'll see the enemy later and at closer ranges than before; and while 
 airborne, you'll have to rely on ground forces to locate bad guys before you can take your shot. 
 In other words, you'll need to fight as a coherent team, which is why the role of the Commander 
 (who calls the shots from a sort of disembodied RTS-command screen) will be vital. From his RTS 
 (Real Time Strategy) vantage point, the Commander will be the only member of his team with a truly 
 integrated and holistic picture of the battle, making his ability to relay information critical 
 to success. We loved BF 1942 and BF Vietnam. But the added depth of BF 2 make us forget all about 
 its predecessors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baron_Kenobi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  This game has numerous features that work very well, in particular the command point system. However, 
 the game suffers from a few flaws.
  
  The first is a distinct lack of teamwork online. If you can find a server where everyone is willing 
 to work together, you can mesh really well and pull it off. However, if half of your team is impatient 
 and going Rambo style, then your sides tactics fall apart and get completely decimated. It was 
 my experience that very rarely did you find a server that had good players on it.
  
  Second, the offline component stunk. It only allowed you to play on the small 16 person maps, and 
 that got old fast. The AI wasn't too bad, and you could change the difficulty level, but you were 
 forced into small maps. Also, the points and upgrade system were sadly missing from the single 
 player portion.
  
  Otherwise, the kits were well designed, and I liked the map design. I felt that this was a promising 
 game, but ultimately fell short due to two crippling flaws. However, if you know where you can 
 find a large number of people who are willing to cooperate, and all play together, then I would 
 definitely recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettuceman44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is just one amazing multiplayer game. Even today there are many many people playing 
 it. Bf2 has one of the best mutliplayer modes ever, conquest. Each side has a certain amount of 
 tickets, and when those tickets run out you lose. You lose tickets by getting killed, or not holding 
 enough control points. So you fight for control points also. This allows the developer to make 
 the map anyway they want. It doesn't have to be balanced, or symmetrical. If one side has an advantage, 
 the other side can just have more starting tickets. This makes the maps varied and fun. There are 
 many classes kits and vehicles you can get and unlock. It keeps the value of the game high. Bf2 
 also looks nice and plays nice also. There is some problems, like some glitches and lag, but the 
 good stuff way overshadows the bad stuff. Battlefield 2 is one of the best multiplayer shooters 
 ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green940
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is probably one of the best EA games I've ever played.
  
  First of all the game is based on fictional wars in different places around the world. You have 
 the choice of being in either the Middle Eastern team, American team or the Chinese team. There 
 is no story to the game its just fictional wars going around in places where you get to choose 
 who you want to be.
  
  The main big awesome catch to the game is the brilliant multi-player online game. It is truly amazing. 
 The single player is just to give you a taste and prepare you of the real action waiting on online 
 play. On average you'll probably spend 3-6 hours on single play and once you think your good enough 
 you can enter the true battlefield.
  
  On online play the big difference is that you are playing against real people other than the pc 
 artificial intelligence. Servers can hold from 10 players to upto 64 players. Once your connected 
 online its just that you pick one team and fight for you territories and try to gain more. Each 
 team starts off with similar points and the first team to reach 0 loses.
  
  I HIGHLY recommend you to play single player before multi-player otherwise you'll find multiplayer 
 DEAD HARD. I would have rated single playe just right and multiplayer pretty hard if i was allowed 
 to give 2 types of difficulty levels.
  
  The only reason I didn't rate the game 10 was because of the server issues. The major problem is 
 if you have a high ping, you'll get kicked from most of the servers :- ( and have trouble finding 
 one with good ping. A good server online which I would recommend you to use is the one called 'robert 
 reed's server' it is a good one and most of the times there are many people online to play against. 
 
  
  Anothe major issue is the loading time. To load a single player game it takes quiet some time and 
 the multi-player takes a REALLY long time. Don't worry if it gets stuck on 64% it normally takes 
 long time on that number. Happens to just about everyone. Also this game requires a LOT of high 
 system requirements especially the graphic card but for this day of age (2007) it wont be that 
 big of a deal since its first release back on 2005.
  
  Overall I'd recommend this game to someone who loves addicting multiplayer online games and want 
 something fun which will last for a long time.  and etc.. are 
 just BRILLIANT.
  
  Thank you for reading my gamespot review on Battlefield 2.
  
  p. s If you want to buy another good game I'd say Crysis (just remember to check your system requirements 
 cause it asks for a REALLY high minumum system) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a game that despite a few drawbacks will keep you coming back and back for years 
 to come. First of all the idea of a Multiplayer only game does sounds a little half full to someone 
 like me who enjoys single player but luckily the online battles are more than enough to keep you 
 wanting more.
  
  The graphics are very nice and while they will of course become dated in the new generation of 
 gaming, they will still hold up long enough to take many hours of pleasure in the game just visually.
 
  
  The sound is top notch and when you here a bullet whizz by, it gives you that shot of adrenaline 
 that keeps you on your toes at all time. While am sure there is better in other games, it does 
 not take away that they did a good job with the sound.
  
  The gameplay is where Battlefield finds it biggest strength but also its biggest problems. The 
 gameplay is not particularly hard for a new player to get into but while the ability to unlock 
 weapons may give the game a longer life, it can at times make it harder to come up against a player 
 with a superior arsenal. Also I do feel the damage is a little weak on some weapons and can lead 
 to frustration though some of the unlocks do help with this. However the battles can be very enjoyable 
 but I feel the vechiles are too overpowered but with the right amount of practice you can find 
 a good balance in the game though the bunnyhopping ability and a rolling glitch can make send your 
 blood rushing at times.
  
  The game has massive replay value and has 2 booster packs and one expansion pack so you will be 
 kept busy for a long time before being bored. Even if you find other games to play, now and again 
 you will want to return to the Battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DualHazzarD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  If you like playing online FPS games, then this is the ultimate game to play online. Medals, Badges, 
 Ribbons, Ranks, Complete Stats. It has it all, and it somehow keeps track of every last bit of 
 information. The game is a little unstable, as for people with lower end computers the game will 
 auto boot itself out sometimes and you will be sitting there staring at your desktop, as thats 
 what happened to me with my old pc, and many others with older pc's now as well. But yet, the game 
 is incredible. The teamwork involved, graphics, weapons, vehicles, are all just excellent. Definetly 
 a game to pick up if you see it at a store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  I've played Battlefield right through from BF1942 to the BF2142 Demo, but have to say BF2 is best 
 of the lot.
  
  The thing about Battlefield it turns the theater of war into a sporting arena, so much I feel like 
 I'm playing basketball or football. You're probably wondering why the comparisons to basketball 
 and football...
  
  In the Battlefield games you have different rolls you can assume much like basketball positions, 
 but it turns into something so grand-scale it feels more like a football match.
  
  The basic positions in battlefield (across the board) are...
  
  Assault
  Scout
  AT
  Medic
 
  Engineer
  
  These positions can pretty much be used both offensively and defensively on the field, with a great 
 team of players in action there are a multitude of strategies that can be developed.
  
  1942 was good...
  Vietnam was better with aircraft being easier to fly...
  BF2 rocked!
  2142 
 may have been superior but it lacked that feel BF2 had...
  
  What makes BF2 the best in series?
  
  The strategical coordination you never had in 1942 and 
 Vietnam
  The look and feel of a "Real-World" battlefield.
  
  The expansion packs... meh...
  
  IMO Battlefield 2 is the best of the series and an excellent 
 game by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Bf2 is an amazing multiplayer game and is extremely addictive it has so much to it like vehicles 
 to infantry to air combat all on huge maps. It's sort of like a sandbox game but much more intense. 
 I've only played it at my friends house but I've played alot and I love it I can't play it at my 
 house because you need a good computer to run it on low graphic I'd say you'll need about 1-2 gigs 
 of RAM. Also the load times are kinda long even on a high end PC It has a lot of upgradeablity 
 to the characters you can unlock weapons and sidearms which are cool but there aren't many. It 
 is overall an awesome game and if you can run it you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  +Really fun and highly addictive shooter based on teamplay. Ranking system is really difficult 
 to achieve, but really fun.
  +Tons of huge maps and plenty of vehicles to fly/drive around.
  -Has some problems with server 
 lag, but rarely.
  -Lack of friend's list.
  
  The Battlefield series is a series I always thought would be fun, before it was called Battlefield. 
 A while back, when MMOs were first getting started, there was a very interesting idea for a game 
 called WWII Online. The game bombed, but I think the idea of it was terrific. Open battles; huge 
 maps; combining a FPS with driving and flying. Finally, I got the beta for Battlefield 1942. It 
 was everything I had hoped for, although it could have used a Ranking System for listing how well 
 you've done in your previous games. A few Battlefield's later, EA decided it was time to feature 
 a very well done rank system. I salute them for it.
  
  Battlefield 2 is a modern war shooter, based mainly between the United States, the British, Iraq, 
 and China. The point of the game is to capture territories for your team. The territories are represented 
 by flags. Kinda reminds you of how Europe captured America, right? The game has a count down timer 
 that counts down more if you have less territories, and less if you're winning. The team to have 
 the most timer points at the end wins the game. It's that simple, yet the game is so complicated 
 as far as choices. There's several choices you'll run into while playing. Are you going to be support 
 and just heal team mates or bring them ammo? Are you going to be the lone wolf and snipe your way 
 to your team's victory? Jet or helicopter? Assault or special forces? Commander or grunt?
  
  Each class is incredible in it's own sense. The medic gets points based on how many people 
 pick up health packs or how many people they revive during battle. The support team gets points 
 the same way, but by providing the ammo to members. Engineers get points for repairing vehicles 
 and laying mines. It's a long trail of what classes' cans and can'ts. What all classes can do is 
 shoot guns and get kills, which is overall essential to making sure the opposing team isn't getting 
 points. The vehicles are really fun to play around with. The helicopter can carry several units 
 across a long area, as long as they're not blasted from below by anti-aircraft support teams. Most 
 vehicles are used for transports, but there's some used mainly for assaults. Jets and tanks to 
 be exact. That's where the anti-vehicle class comes it extra handy.
  
  The graphics are really good with tons to explore in every map. The textures are well made, as 
 well as the geometry of the environments. Everything is a decent polygonal amount to give you a 
 more realistic battlefield. Some older computers may not be able to handle some of the settings 
 boosted up, but given it's on a PC, you can always just adjust those settings. The audio is really 
 well done, but the annoyances come from the many, many cries for help that are blurted out in audio 
 form. The only other annoyances come from the lack of a friend's list. Without Xfire, it's pretty 
 darn hard to find a friend's game.
  
  Overall, Battlefield 2 is a well made game with many features that are to be appreciated. With 
 a stat collecting function, it turns the series into an even more amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kunphyuzed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is one of the best FPSs on the market. With a ton of unlockable weapons and detailed 
 stats and leaderboards, this game will keep you immersed seemingly forever. When you buy this, 
 you should get a microphone or headset for your PC, because you can voice chat as soon as you get 
 in the game. You'll want to, because unlike some FPSs like Counter Strike, this game is all about 
 teamwork. Most maps are massive, and if you're by yourself, prepared to get owned by a tank, helicopter, 
 jet, car, APC, infantry, I could go on...
  You can choose one of several classes in three different armies, USA, Middle Eastern Coalition, 
 and China, and theres a bunch of maps. You can make Squads, where the leader issues orders and 
 is a portable spawn point. Spawn points here are bases, flags, which you stand near for a bit to 
 capture.
  A Commander is the head honcho of the army. If you're Commander you can issue supply drops (which 
 repair vehicles, heal people, and replenish ammo) , vehicle drops, issue orders to squads, put UAVs 
 to detect enemies, scan the entire map for enemies, and issue an artillery strike on an enemy.
 
  All of the classes have a balanced feel. Snipers, for example, don't have any auto weapons, as 
 you can guess, but they have a silenced pistol, for those stealthy encounters, and claymores, which 
 are basically trip mines. Special Forces, for another example, focus on infiltrating enemy bases 
 and sabotage. They have silenced pistols, again, C4 for destroying assets, (we'll get to that later) 
 and a weak yet accurate automatic gun. What I like about most weapons is that you can choose to 
 use two firing modes, like full auto, semi auto, or bust fire. That way, depending on the situation, 
 you don't have to go all out and waste ammo on a single enemy, or pepper multiple enemies in a 
 seemingly hopeless encounter.
  All the maps have a balanced feel, too. Most maps are huge, and their size also depends on the 
 max number of players, but are still kinda big. Wake Island 2007 starts out as USA with a base 
 on a aircraft carrier, and China starts out with 5 points on the island. USA can easily get the 
 few bases on the ends near the aircraft carrier and continue the onslaught there. China will most 
 likely defend against such and onslaught, and if the tables turn, like USA captures the Chinese 
 airfield, but China captures the bases on the tips of the island. Another map called Mastuur City, 
 one of my favorites, is, well, a city map, where you can choose vehicles, but you'll also do good 
 on foot. In this map if you go to one base to capture it, you might miss an enemy squad going to 
 the base you just left, making some interesting situations.
  Vehicles range from planes, helicopters, tanks, APCs, AA vehicles, and simple cars. There are many 
 variations of each, including separate ones for each army. For example, theres one car that holds 
 a driver and two mounted gunners and goes really fast. Another holds a driver, gunner, and two 
 infantrymen in the back, capable of using their weapons and tools in the car. It's a little more 
 armored than the other, but it moves slower. Sometimes, if you hit a weak spot on a vehicle, like 
 hit a Chinese tank with the USA M1A2s main gun in the treads, it'll be a one shot kill. (Or just 
 an incredibly lucky one!)
  Now I almost forgot, assets. Thats what the Commander controls. The three assets, UAV trailer, 
 the cable dish that scans for enemies, and artillery. It takes two of the C4 to take them out, 
 and I've heard of them being destroyed by vehicles but never tried it. If you destroy the enemy 
 assets, you get points, and help your team out too. You can repair them if you're an engineer, 
 and get points too. It can slow down the enemy, so it's definably worth the risk of sneaking in 
 to destroy it.
  Now the statistics in the game are very detailed. You can see what awards you received, details 
 on all the weapons, time spent playing, time spent as a certain class, time spent in a vehicle, 
 time spent on a map, time spent in a Squad, whatever. You can even compare it to anyone who has 
 ever played the game. It's awesome.
  Also, to communicate in-game, you can use a microphone to talk, type, or press "Q" to bring up 
 a menu for some quick phrases that your character will say. You can identify enemies and vehicles 
 they're in, request medical assistance and ammo, and say simple phrases like "thanks" or "sorry."
 
  The graphics are very great. If you don't have a relatively new PC, than it might run a little 
 slow. On my computer, the frame rate never jumps above 30, but I have a three year old computer. 
 There are individual pieces of grass and such, and detailed textures on everything. Character models 
 look nice, with a bunch of different ones. For example, Snipers will be decked out in grass for 
 camouflage, and Anti-Tank personnel will have a rocket launcher on their back. I like explosions, 
 some vehicles will explode twice, first when they're hit with a rocket or something, resulting 
 in a charred blob barely recognizable as what it is, and than explode in a million pieces after 
 fire enters the gas tank. Guns sound authentic, and it seems like theres different sounds for shots 
 fired close and far away. No music, except for the menu and loading.
  My complaints against this game... well on my setup it looks crappy compared to what it can be, 
 but I have a three year old computer, so yeah... Load times can get a bit boring, but there's some 
 cool music to get you pumped. This game is INCREDIBLY hard. You will die, and they will laugh at 
 you. I've played many many hours and I still suck. Helicopters and jets are hard to control with 
 just a mouse and keyboard, but with the hours you'll spend on this I think it's a good idea to 
 invest in a game pad or flight stick. Some servers have rules that just plain out suck. There could 
 be no swearing, (eh, don't blame them) or no attacking enemy home bases, which really pisses me 
 off because when I see someone doing that, and I tell a server administrator, they don't do anything, 
 but when I just happen to be in the neighborhood, I get my ass banned. Sometimes, people will team 
 kill you for a vehicle or just to be dicks. This may get you pissed, and soon a mini-war will commence 
 where when you die, you'll go back and team kill the same guy, and so forth, until one of you gets 
 banned. Some people will just act like total retards, such as a medic not giving you medical supplies, 
 or a person going off in an attack chopper without a gunner.
  Basically theres no reason NOT to get this game. It has good graphics, game play that will immerse 
 you, difficulty that forces you to use teamwork, an assortment of classes, vehicles, maps, and 
 weapons, and stat tracking that will keep you striving for the top. Problems are basically stuck 
 with loading times, hard to control planes and choppers, and players just acting stupid. Get this 
 game if you have a PC, like video games, and want something worth your time and money. There's 
 a package that comes with the game, the expansion, and two booster packs with new maps. Don't miss 
 out on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badkarma77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  It's been 2 and  years since its release and I'm still not tired of this game. Patches over the 
 years have fixed many problems. Some have added to the enjoyment of the game and some have removed 
 things that I thought were good ideas but it's still a lot of fun to play. That's obvious by the 
 thousands of people you can find playing every day. I think the only complaint I have and this 
 isn't EA's of Dice's fault is that it's too easy for undetectable hacks. Punkbuster doesn't work 
 and they haven't found a way yet to detect and kick/ban them off of the servers. Best game ever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimybrit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  I picked up my copy of this game a week ago and I love it!!!
  Here's my review:
  
  Graphics-8.7- The graphics in this game were real nice. Although explosions looked kind of crappy. 
 I really loved the ragdoll effects when you kill people.
  
  Gameplay-9.4- The gameplay was great! There are lots of maps to play on and many kits and weapons 
 to try. It runs well and the fun never ends.
  
  Controls-8.4- The controls were pretty complicated. But the including of changing controls make 
 it much easier...
  
  Multiplayer-9.8- The best part of this game is multiplayer. UP TO 64 PLAYERS!!!!! There are around 
 500 servers to try. From games for noobs to games for experts theres always a good game to try!
 
  
  Single Player-9.0- WTF!!!!!!! No single player campaign or story. It's just multiplayer with CPU 
 teammates and opponents. It's still fun though.
  
  Play Value-9.7- This game will probally last about 12 years or so. IT IS So GOOD. THERE ARE SO 
 MANY SERVERS TO TRY!!!!
  
  Overall-9.5- This game rocks!!!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rotten__eggs
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  graphics sound really amazing somethings could be fixed its a bit buggy online can be amazing but 
 confuzing at times online can be very hard if ur not atleast a little bit of a gamer. great game 
 but still running around capturing bases gets very boring since that seems to be the games main 
 point instead of just shooting people could have more than just 1 main gameplay online and single 
 player is so lame only instant action which is same as multiplayer but by urself! could be better 
 with a campaign or something cause it just gets boring plus you have to have an internet conection 
 just to play single player so u can log in! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarCowAlways
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Ever wanted to be a marine, without the danger? Ever wanted to fight the marines, without being 
 charged with treason? If you do, I'll hunt you down, but that's far from the point. Star Wars Battlefront 
 took a lot of cues from this game, but, believe it or not, this game is WAY deeper. Where to start...
 
  
  Man... so much to cover... First off, you can be an assault guy, medic, special ops guy, anti-tank 
 guy, engineer, support guy, or a sniper. I won't go into much more detail, but most will like assault, 
 special ops or support, for heavy infantry offense.
  
  Once you've chosen a "kit", as they're called, you can change sides or setup teams (i. e. CHARLIE 
 or BRAVO) . Teams are AWESOME. When a team leader, you are in direct contact with the commander, 
 who can, at your order, drop in vehicles, supplies, artillery strikes, UAVs (which are small radars 
 which show you enemies in the area of the UAV temporarily) , reinforcements and more. Your team 
 which you set up recieves your orders (move, attack [where the crosshair points, like all other 
 orders] , defend, destroy, repair, etc.) and usually answers them without contradiction.
  
  Vehicles are the huge infrantry killer in this game, along with artillery strikes. Vehicles in 
 this game aren't like those in Battlefront games, where you can just run around a little and never 
 get hit. These vehicles are TOUGH. They are as real as can be, which means it's going to take more 
 than on person to take down one, usually even if that person's you or a man with an RPG. Or both. 
 Vehicles usually take two or three hits from an RPG, though it really depends on the vehicle. When 
 you're outside a tank, they can follow you and blow you up pretty easily. The challenge for you 
 is to blow it up, while defending a base, while fighting other infantry, while avoiding the all-seeing 
 eye of the tank. To do this, you must tell either your team or commander to either come help you 
 or drop things, or even blow up the whole area with artillery. When inside a tank, you can't seem 
 to find any infantry other than anti-tank guys with a loaded RPG. Most vehicles can be dropped 
 with one good hit, though the tougher armored tanks and amphibeans take a hit or two more. Vehicles 
 are awesome on this game. They are very fun to drive, and have 2-5/6 positions in them, making 
 them perfect teamwork machines. They usually have 3 spots in them. All vehicles have turrets on 
 top, though some have restrictions in movement. There are many commands to use while in a tank, 
 or not, such as "go, go, go!" and "roger that", "get in", "bail out" "enemies spotted" and more. 
 Other vehicles are the helicopters and jets, along with the speedboat and more. Very fun, these 
 are, though rather hard for me personally to drive. They have brilliantly placed positions for 
 other people, or you, since you can instantly control any one position at a time. Tanks and jets, 
 of course, combine shooting and driving.
  
  The weapons in this game are real guns, which hit you instantly, unlike in Battlefront, so you 
 cannot avoid these shots in the air, but msut instead stop them from every firing off. Because 
 of this, it is much easier to die in this game.
  
  Artillery strikes. Man's greatest hinderance. As you may know, the main purpose of these battles 
 is to capture the enemy command posts, while defending yours. But here's the twist; the enemy has 
 artillery. So, while you stand there, at the enemy base, watching out for hostiles while capturing 
 the place, often all hell breaks loose, and explosions ring out all around you. Usually, you can 
 here the shots being fired into the air, sometimes, the first shot misses you and you have time 
 to run for cover, but most of the time you and your allies are killed instantly. Some can, for 
 the most part, avoid this by getting in a heavily armored tank, or running away and running back 
 when the strike is over. That's what I usually do. You can destroy the artillery guns, but this 
 requires very heavy explosives, like C4 (special ops kit) , and you must run behind enemy lines 
 for every enemy controlled base, since every base has two artillery guns. Your guys, fortunately, 
 have this ability too, however, they do not automatically use it. Instead, either you or some other 
 high-up has to point at the location desired and tell the commander to fire there. There are restrictions. 
 You must wait about a half a minute after the last artillery strike to order a new one, if you 
 want the commander to even consider it. Almost always, if you order a strike, it comes. The enemy 
 can destroy your artillery, too.
  
  With all of the options, multiplayer battles with microphone support, and the incredible depth 
 and realism of this game, it's an easy game to recommend to any first-person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMotherBrain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is still one of the best multiplayer experiences out there. Nothing can top it's 
 realistic approach to online shooters, impressive graphics, top-notch sound design, and great fun.
 
  
  The thing that draws me into Battlefield 2 the most has got to be the realism. The squad system 
 is ingenious, and there can be some very intense situations. The stat tracker/rank system is in-depth, 
 and very rewarding. You actually feel very proud of yourself when you earn some distinction, or 
 "level up". The motivation behind it is not only for bragging rights or respect, but for unlocking 
 weapons as well.
  
  Graphically, Battlefield 2 is amazing. The draw distance still blows my mind, and the animations 
 are equally good. The environments (while not the best) are still well made and do their job. I'm 
 glad that trees no longer look like something out of a pop-up book.
  
  The sound design really does add to the overall experience of the game. Bullets whizzing past warn 
 you of incoming fire, explosions alert you of danger, and the rumble of an enemy tank strikes fear 
 into your heart. The shell-shock effect of explosions is a nice touch, and definitely adds a little 
 something to the intensity of firefights.
  
  There is great fun to be had in this game, and it should not be over-looked. The coordinated assaults, 
 intense firefights, even being pinned down by enemy snipers makes you feel cool! 
  
  Battlefield 2 is a blast and, considering how cheap it is right now, you need to go buy it. The 
 community still seems like it's growing (at least 1000 servers running at a time) , and when you 
 get just the right server, you won't want to quit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11mwmarshall
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. I purchased this game before it was even out, I had a pre-order. I got this 
 game when it was $50 and it worked fine on my dell untill it crashed my computer several times, 
 I fixed this problem by throwing at the dell and getting a new PC about 1 1/2 years ago. Now I 
 have a great PC to run the game and I am now addicted to the game. I did see problems with the 
 game at first but as the patches came out the problems pretty muched vanished. I rate this game 
 10/10 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game upon reccomendation from a friend. then i reccomended it to another friend and 
 he bought it. nevermind. what matters is this game is crazy good. The best fps online game i have 
 ever bought. my only complaint is that they could have a bit more single player, but thats not 
 a huge deal. the multyplayer forces you to join squadrens and fight with them to win matches. sorry 
 if my review is a bit disjointed, i'm a bit, out of sorts, to say the least. it runs good on older 
 systmes, and looks good. weapon detail and sound is spot on. not much more to say that i can think 
 of, if you've played other battlefield games, youll like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyhorse_0411
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome game. I got it after i got 2142 and i can say that this is a better game. Obviously 
 the game is weighted towards online play with the complete lack of a single player game, but that 
 is fine because its more fun to play online, and with the classic battlefield ranking and advancement 
 system, the game is addictive to play and players will spend hours trying to get enough points 
 to unlock the better weapons.
  The game itself is great and very realistic. In online play, there are plenty of options of how 
 to play the game, with 7 kits and plenty of vehicles to choose from, i would highly recommend this 
 game.
  However, the game is not without problems. It would be a better game if there was a single player 
 campaign or some sort of training level to familiarise new players with the game.
  Another problem i think is that there are too many kits. I think that the developers need to find 
 a middle ground between BF2 and BF2142 in terms of the number of kits. Why do you need an engineer 
 and an anti-tank kit when you could have just one? And the medic kit is far superior to its competitor, 
 the assault kit.
  Apart from this, its a great online shooter and i highly recommend you buy this game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcEeMan69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 its just a fun game. The amount of weapons is not that good but the gameplay is just 
 great. Yes i love the Chinese and those MEC guys just using some Gureilla warfare with them. I 
 personally love the old Battlefeild and BF Vietnam but this is just a total masterpiece. I love 
 the multiplayer and single and i just think of this as a fun game. I really love to play co-op 
 and have the bot ratio to 80% and its pretty fun when ya outnumbered by 20 some guys. The only 
 thing i wish they could have is to be able to do that on singleplayer and have more selection of 
 weapons and different forces like a african militia or like instead of Euro Force like have it 
 as the british, french or even germans now that would be cool. But i also would like to have a 
 WW1 game just for fun just slaughtering guys but for this game just a total masterpiece!
  
  (i got BF2 installed and i usually go to Fileplanet. com to see mods well im not THAT good with 
 a pc but when ya download it how do ya play it send me message if ya know) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roblox84
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  As the title say's i come back to this game after i beat some new pc games. The only reason you 
 should get this game is for the multiplayer of course. Graphics and gameplay are aewsome and the 
 controls are very easy too learn. Make sure you get the newest patches because the game suffers 
 from some glitches and will disconnect from server randomly. Also since i swithced my comp. over 
 to vista i have not been able to play it because punk buster keeps on kicking me off. So make sure 
 you have xp if you wish to play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delro333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield to is just plain awsome. Pick it up and plug some headphones in and get ready for war. 
 The game itself is only good for online play with great rewards and ranking system. The maps are 
 a little bland but still really fun. There nothing better than joining a squad and working together 
 with headsets while you fly in and parachite behind enemy lines ready to infiltrate. The gameplay 
 is spectacular, takes some time to get good though, however this game is really addictive. The 
 graphics are great for its age and size. The only real drawback is the hassle of starting the game 
 and then loading a server, takes a bit of time, but is worth it. When playing this there are countless 
 moments you'll remember wether is sniping a guy in the head or bringing down an enemy attack chopper 
 its all great. For its price you will find yourself picking this up and coming back day after day 
 to play becuase nothing will be the same in the game there is so many vehicles to choose from and 
 working towards gun upgrades if timeconsuming but very rewarding. OVERALL EXCELLANT GAME ONLINE 
 PLAY IS AMAZING AND ADDICTIVE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desulated
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  The battlefield series games have always been great and now this is no exception. The battlefield 
 games have always been excellent series, starting out with battlefield 1942 and its 2 expansion 
 packs. That game became an online madness in the past, but now its a mere memory. But who says 
 a series must die that fast....
  
  That is why Battlefield 2 has been put into the series. Basically, its a simulation of modern combat 
 using modern-day weapons. It's the USMC against China or the MEC duking it out in every match (strangely 
 the USMC is present in all maps) Today, it's still a great multiplayer game. 
  
  However, with all great games comes some downs. The game's PC requirements are so high, unless 
 you have a killer PC with crazy internet connection, it's very unlikely you will ever enjoy this 
 game. The loading times will be long as hell and it will be impossible to even fly a jet properly.
 
  
  Patching this game is also a pain, since it akes forever to patch up. Also game crashes are very 
 common, especially in large player servers.
  
  If you have a computer that can run it, get out there and buy it! No FPS fan should ever miss out 
 on this masterpiece of modern-day FPS game. However, if you only have the average computer, you 
 might want to think twice, since it may disappoint you with lag and choppy graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sacred_Pie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  I love this game. On a good system it has great graphics and the load times arnt too bad. I have 
 the delux edition DVD that has a slight bug, it randomly shuts down, this can be a problem if it 
 happens during a good online game. I love the ranking system, theres actualy something to aim for 
 during online play, something that alot of games dont have. The graphics are great and the way 
 you dont have to go through pointless, boring toutorials is great.
  
  All in all a great game with a minor bug in my version but still fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrLaskowski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this is a phenominal game. You will get addicted to this game if you show some patience. The 
 biggest problem is when you play online you will get schooled by the people that have played for 
 a long amount of time. As the game goes on you become better and better because you unlock certain 
 weapons, plus you just learn a bit how to play. It does take some time though. I love playing all 
 kinds of different kits, and use all kinds of different weapons. It gives you a huge variety in 
 how you can play the game. Personally I have spent most of my time playing with an assualt rifle. 
 It varies on the map as well as where you are in the map.
  
  Most of the time the maps don't change very much, some are over used. There is a single player 
 version, but it is not nearly as fun as playing online.
  
  
  Oh yeah, and I bought it for 10 bucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pupadump
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  There is no doubt that battle field 2 is the best in the series, with its global rating system 
 and great mutiplayer it makes it a highly addictive game to play.
  
  This game is great for any one over the age of 10 and it isn't to hard to play either you just 
 choose the level of the ai and play, and the ai levels are alot diffrent and make a big difference 
 when playing.
  
  Battlefield 2 offers a variaty of planes, tanks and even helicopters. All of the vehichles work 
 perfectly and with no bugs or glitches
  so learning to fly or just to drive is a sinch.
  
  This is definentley a game worth playing and if just wanna try it out there is a great demo 
 which lets you play a map in singleplayer and multiplayer.
  Great game but i say it just misses perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theblackdouglas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  WOW! what can i say when battlefield 1942 came out it was a new idea with fighting in the skies 
 in jeeps, in tanks in apcs.......... it was different and very good............... but then battlefield 
 2 comes along and WOW they got it totally right with this one it's all out war a great game although 
 single player is good for practise this is a game strictly based on multiplayer mayhem.
  
  So if you've not got broadband forget 
  
  If you've got broadband 
 you've got to get this game or your simply missing out on the fun and the 
 
  
  Highly reccommended.
  
  (i never rate games 10/10 as nothing manmade is perfect) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McPwned
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 27, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  There is no game I've ever been so enamoured with, so in-love with, as Battlefield 2. I ate, drank, 
 and breathed it. Patches became topics for discussion amongst my PC-going friends. I was always 
 searching for that next rank, that next badge, that next unlock. It was what I thought about during 
 school; it was how I spent my nights. I followed my statistics religiously and constantly tried 
 to improve each and every stat. For 460 hours of my life I spent playing this game. Now, for the 
 most hardcore games, this might not seem like much, but for me, it's immense. I, in fact, played 
 this game so much that it became nothing short of a task - that I had to lead my team to victory, 
 that I had to have a positive kill/death ratio. I had also made a sort of unwritten code of honour 
 for myself; I would not use unfair tactics, weapons, or whore anything. I was, at this point, becoming 
 frustrated. I realised that I was no longer playing for fun, I was playing to be superior. Not 
 necessarily to have the highest points, but to have the most well-rounded stats - to be able to 
 look at another player's stats and say with resounding confidence, I am a better overall player 
 than this guy. I had become obsessed.
  
  I forced myself to stop playing, to distance myself from the clan I had become a part of, to stop 
 playing the game that I love. I had hated that I let the fun get away from me, that I had ruined 
 what I still consider to be the greatest online shooter ever made. That is the story of my obsession, 
 that is the review of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  The other Battlefields were okay but for me, Battlefield 2 brings life into the series. You get 
 to play three sides in this game, with a bunch od cool modern weapons.
  
  In Battlefield 2, you get into a bunch of intense Internet battles. There is a bunch of cool maps 
 and like around 60 people per server. The battles are intense and fun. if you get into a match 
 with a bunch of people, the battles get really intense. If you play a lot and do will in battles 
 you will unlock new weapons.
  
  The graphics in this game look really good and some things look real. There are a few things in 
 the graphics that look kind of bad but it is hard sometimes to notice them.
  
  The sound sounds really good like scream from your fellow soldiers and the weapons sound good.
 
  
  If you want a good multi player experience then you have to buy Battlefield 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyHR
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for a bit more than 1,5 years now and I still haven't had enough of 
 this tactical modern shooter. Sure there have been days i played it less than others, but i've 
 always considered BF2 to be the game I'll be playing at the end of the day. Many games have been 
 released after BF2 and many of them i have tryed but somehow i always come back. I always find 
 something Battlefield has and other games don't. Sometimes it's the type of gameplay that makes 
 BF2 better, sometimes it's the stats system and sometimes you just don't feel that something when 
 playing other games...
  
  I think this says enough about the quality of the game. Sure there are some bugs and things that 
 could have been done better, but what game has none?
  The developers seem to have reach the end point for release of patches and expansions, but the 
 game is and will be the best online FPS for days to come.
  
  If you haven't played this game yet (i hope you did) try it and I promisse that you won't regret. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukemaneiro
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 has great graphics, sounds and loads of features (commands, weapons, etc.) , although 
 it requires a great computer to be played on. I guarantee you, if you don't have a powerful graphic 
 card, you will get disappointed with the lag spikes, slow response of the soldier to your commands... 
 specially in multiplayer.
  
  Now, let's forget about your pc specs and let's get to the game... It has lots of classes, weapons, 
 equipment and tanks... in fact, it has a bit of everything. Multiplayer is great, the in-game voice 
 chat is easy to use, the ziplines, grenades, c4s... all of that makes Battlefield 2 the top game 
 in the series.
  
  So far we've talked about the great graphics, sound and gameplay... all pros, now let's get to 
 the cons.
  
  The server browser is kind of clumsy, the single player mode is, uh, limited, since you can't set 
 how many 'players' are in the map (AI is dumb, really dumb) , that makes it a multiplayer only game 
 and last of all, lack of co-op gaming.
  
  So, Battlefield 2 is a GREAT game, one of the best FPS's out there. Even though you'll need a great 
 pc to play it well, it has great graphics, sound, gameplay and it's another reason for you to do 
 an upgrade =) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Av177
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 manages to do best what most online FPS's just fall short of, and that is being entirely 
 balanced, while somehow maintaining its insane fun factor. Really, there are no overpowered weapons 
 or vehicles, no overplayed kits, and even as players rank up and unlock new weapons, while added 
 a new approach to combat, aren't overpowered. This to me, is what really stands out about BF 2. 
 Well that, and its just plain fun.
  
  The graphics in BF2 are crisp and lush. Tanks, helicopters, planes, cars and weapon models are 
 well done. The levels each have their own environmental "feel". The fluidity and the gameplay of 
 this game is very amazing. The vehicles control like they should, and while on foot the basic FPS 
 controls are simple and effective. While no one single weapon feels imbalanced, they all work perfectly 
 in different ways and scenarios. The sound is top notch. It doesn't matter if you're in the heat 
 of battle or just relaxing and taking in the ambiance of the level - everything just seems so fitting. 
 The planes screech overhead, they tanks rumble as they pass you, the weapons and explosions are 
 loud, the chit-chat commands are neat and feel authentic.
  
  The Commander and squad system was well thought out. I love being able to spawn on a squad leader, 
 so I don't have to worry about walking a good distance to get into the heat of things again - it 
 also encourages teamwork. Ranking up almost adds an RPG element to the game and makes you *want* 
 to rank up again. Higher ranked players also have priority when applying to be a team commander. 
 
  
  Battlefield 2 is worth the money 100x times over, and if you're a hardcore online FPS gamer then 
 you will *really* enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Praetor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic on its own, without it's superior mods (that is to say Project Reality) . 
 This is the best T rated shooter now released. Fun squad play, easy controls, incredible graphical 
 abilities for its time. Gameplay goes ON AND ON, getting old only once you reach Master Sergeant. 
 And good luck getting your hands on a jet.
  
  There's an even mix of noobs and veterans, making gameplay fair. You'll never feel like you were 
 useless in the game, because you'll do SOMETHING that will affect the game as a whole.
  
  I recommend this game to fans of Star Wars Battlefront, Tom Clancy, or video games in general. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dabbster465
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  well i played 2142 before it so they could have added stuff, like the friends list well it was 
 fun and great FPS and online game ,well the only disapointment was you couldnt drive the carriers 
 like you would have been able to in battlefield 1942 ,but besides that it was one of the best computer 
 games ive ever played and they could have also added bigger maps for the single player but asides 
 from that the game was really origanal and well done, the graphics on high could have been improved 
 too, but i give this game a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jester_mech3d
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 hits the spot in most instances. It is however lacking in the hit detection department. 
 Also things seem to get repetitive in the later stages. Great game for a squad, but servers are 
 also expensive still. Running a small squad it can be cost prohibitive to run your own server. 
 Still a great game. EA support can be lacking some, but what do we expect from a big time player. 
 Even so I've sunk over 200 hours into this game. Ranking system and stat tracking are a plus. Weapons 
 unlocks could be managed better. Medal system requires a ridiculous amount of game time to aquire 
 them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicholahackl
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is really only an online game! The single play is just an added bonus to battlefield 
 2! The nice thing about Battlefield 2 is that you don't need a monster computer to run this game 
 and it offers fairly good graphic quality! I am the type of person who is very stubborn when it 
 coming to choosing a game because I like the game to be as real as possible! I was quite shocked 
 at the realness of this game! I would recommend this game to anyone! There are a few problems I 
 saw to the game! I think that the movements of the characters could be made smother and more realistic! 
 I really disliked the fact that I could not go into most buildings because this adds so much more 
 to urban warfare! But none the less I give it 9 out of 10!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashaiba91
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  What can i say about battlefield 2... its an amazing game for its time, its kinda gettin old now 
 with much better games and graphics, hopefully battlefield bad company is good..
  
  Battlefield 2 is a great first person military shooter game, though un realistic, you can get shot 
 a bunch of times and not die. but still very fun..
  
  the main problem i have had with battlefield is the annoying multiplayer problems, and the fact 
 that u cant change the appearance of ur soldier.. wouldnt that be awsome.
  
  the best things about battlefield is its multiplayer fun, graphics are pretty good, good sound 
 effects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Finally, I have the time and possibility to review Battlefield 2 so let's get to work. Battlefield 
 2 is the result of the stunning success of Desert Combat, a modification for the previous game 
 in series: Battlefield 1942. The modification was, most probably, the result of the hype around 
 the current wars in the Middle East, so B2 follows suit and adds a little. So what is it all about?
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Battlefield 2 is a team-based shooter set in the modern era with three playable parties: the US, 
 the Arabic alliance and China. Before a match, the player chooses the team and a soldier class. 
 Allied and enemy troops then spawn on one of the relatively large maps where they have to fight 
 for the control of strategic spots using different weapon and vehicle types. The objective is captured 
 by coming close enough to the designated location and staying there long enough for the allied 
 flag to be raised on that location. If a soldier dies, the team loses a ticket and he then respawns 
 at the nearest spawn point. Once the tickets are up, or all the players are dead while there are 
 no spawn points left, the team loses. That is the exact same system that was used in Battlefield 
 1942 and there are no other game types. However, this simplistic gameplay gets compensated for 
 by a relatively complex system of military organization and simply by all the strategic variety 
 possible on such a large map with so many men, guns and vehicles. One can run behind the enemy 
 lines to destroy the annoying artillery or get into a fighter jet to dog-fight with the enemy or 
 ambush enemy vehicles.
  
  B2 is a multi-player centered game. There is a single-player part, but the non-modified version 
 of B2 only has the small 16-player versions of the map, there's no campaign or any central storyline, 
 and more importantly, the AI is really bad. The AI is capable of running from one objective to 
 the other (by foot or in a vehicle) , of shooting the player and each other, throwing a grenade 
 if the enemy is behind the cover, and running away from one. That's it.
  
  On-line, on the other hand, up to 64 players can come together on large maps, set in the urban 
 areas, jungle, desert, etc. Battlefield 2 requires and rewards teamwork. One player can become 
 the commander. The commander can give orders to team leaders, parachute supplies and vehicles, 
 send out unmanned aerial vehicles (for reconnaissance) and rain down artillery fire. Team leaders 
 can then give commands to their followers through an easy-to-operate interface. Voice Over IP is 
 an integrated communication system that exists so that anyone with a microphone can talk to members 
 of the same team. VOIP increases teamwork by far because it doesnt put the pressure of choice 
 on the player to get third party voice software. Every player has to make an Electronic Arts account 
 to play on-line. Different actions earn the player points. Points will eventually result in the 
 increasing rank, and that will allow the player to unlock new weapons. The popularity of B2 and 
 its game editor support caused a few modifications to pop-up within the community. The two most 
 famous ones are Project Reality and Point of Existence. These mods have created some serious changes 
 and prolonged the life of the game. In fact, the writer of this review only returned to playing 
 Battlefield 2 because one of the modifications provided the type of gameplay that the original 
 version could not. EXPANSIONS
  
  Since the release of the game, EA has tried to work the metal while it is still red-hot and released 
 a total of 3 expansion packs. Only one of those brought any interesting changes introducing several 
 new parties, tools and maps.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  For the year it was released in, B2 more than possessed the credentials. There is a lot of detail 
 in the design of each map. Moreover, the graphics are well balanced. Dynamic shadows are there 
 in sufficient amount and the developers also managed to stay away from the light bloom hype (that 
 is the tendency to give all things a pretty glow, which is a pretty effect that got over-exaggerated 
 in the last few years) .
  
  SOUND
  
  No missing sounds here. There is a lot to do in B2 and it all has sound support. There's a renewed 
 soundtrack, modified from the familiar music of Battlefield 1942, but that is where the music ends. 
 That's fine, since music doesn't add much in on-line gameplay but takes away quite a lot in terms 
 of the precious attention.
  
  PERFORMANCE
  
  Battlefield 2 is notorious for its system hunger. If one wishes to play this baby with graphic 
 options on maximum, one must have at least two gigabytes of RAM and a high-end video card. In particular, 
 one lighting option caused a lot of slowdown. On-line forums give recommendations on the optimal 
 video settings. Also, the shadows caused ugly artifacts with quite a few people. Shadows themselves, 
 in fact, do not seem to have any anti-aliasing. One would think that it is the fault of the operating 
 system, but once you see the same ugly pixels in the screenshots on a gaming website, you start 
 to wonder. The sound didnt escape flaws either. Certain sound setting caused all sounds in the 
 game to be played on full blast even if you stood on the other side of the map.
  
  In short, Battlefield 2 is not perfect, so make sure your PC meets the recommended (yes, not minimum) 
 requirements and be prepared to run into some trouble with it. To be fair though, it should be 
 noted that, at the time of this review, a few patches already came out.
  
  COUNCLUSION
  
  Battlefield 2 has been made for the market's demand. Its gameplay is trusty but rather aging. 
 A lack of single player, only one game type and performance issues brought the game down a bit. 
 Nonetheless, the endless strategic possibilities and the ranking system brought it back up. While 
 the modern run-and-gun gameplay doesnt suit everyone, devoted players succeeded releasing a few 
 modifications to suit different tastes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easykill_astari
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  ok ... i know a lot of us are looking for good games ( online or not ) at good prices !
  for all the pc noobs who dont know the great old games ( this one isint so old ) I wish u battlefield 
 2 for Xmas ( where september 5 )
  
  the games is a Fps , it is around 20 $ canadian , it is online and offline i didint play the offline 
 senario so i cant tell u about that the online is normaly , Usa V chinese ( theres others to ) 
 the diference whit this game ( like all battlefields ) is u can drive almost anything ! airplanes 
 , helicopter , trucks , tanks , and others ! a lot of the time u start on a plane boat for Usa 
 the game is not a pc eater , my pc is over loaded whit stuf like bioshock and battlefield 2 still 
 loads in a sec ( or two :P ) the gameplay for planes and helicopter takes sometime to get use to 
 but ... u get use to it fast ! i recommand it to everyone ! even if ur a Counter strike source 
 , a half life series , and others U need to get battlefield 2 ! u can also get , battlefield vietnam 
 , battlefiel 1942 , battlefield 1 , battlefield 2142 , and battlefield bad company IMPORTANT , 
 BAD COMPANY IS NOT OUT YET ! ITS COMING SOON !
  
  Thanks for looking at this ! its my main goal on gamespot ! helping new guys so they buy the good 
 games ! have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RawSushiSociety
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  First time i played this game i was instantly addicted. I loved the fact of huge maps with loads 
 of players fighting the fight. The upgrades are fun to get. They arent just better guns you can 
 upgrade to get but special ones that you can choose. In one upgrade you can pick between a new 
 and nicer shotgun or a accurate submachine gun. The levels are fun to play and since it is a wide 
 open map you can do anything you want ot get to and complete your objective. Tanks, boats, and 
 airplanes give you the feel of a massive war and your a big part of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wigster666
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is still one of the best game out there i think. The multiplayer is definetly the 
 best bit of it, as it is so addictive with the stats and just so much fun. One minute you can be 
 knifing snipers, the next bombing tanks and shooting down other jets, theres just so much variety. 
 The single player mode is just not worth playing really, apart from learning the controls, the 
 bots are just stupidly easy to kill (once you've learnt the controls) and its just too boring. The 
 multiplayer mode is so intense and exciting that it'll keep you on the edge of your seat while 
 your playing, it has so much variety and its much more challenging than playing against bots. The 
 graphics are superb on medium and high is just insane (but you will need a very expensive computer 
 for that.) If only Ea wern't so bad with there support and would iron out some of the glitches 
 and bugs that keep on reaccuring. All round a superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_ivader
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  It is the best online modern game ive ever played. It has great graphics, and great physics also. 
 It has a variaty of different guns, and vehicles, along with lots of different maps to play on. 
 The gameplay is extremely fun, the best matches come when your on an organized team, and your all 
 cooperating toward a comon goal, destroying the other team. It also doesnt have outragious system 
 spec requirements, you dont have to have a super computer to be able to play this game. There is 
 very minimal lag online also, especially if you have a good internet connection. This is one of 
 the best games ive ever played, and its a game i would recommend to everyone who likes shooting 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blairstheman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is an action packed 1st person shooter that lets you play as infantry, a heli or 
 jet pilot, tank driver, jeeps, all in the same battle. Infantry combat is intense as it could get 
 with its 6 soldier classes and unlockable weapons and combined with sandbox gameplay it delivers 
 everything and more a first person should. The sound and graphics are great (especially with surround 
 sound) . It gives you a taste of squad based combat and lets you work as a team unlike in 1942 when 
 it was every man (or woman) for himself. You truly get a feal of what its actually like in war 
 when your pinned down by a heavy machine gun and have nowheres to go. Also, the vehicles are a 
 great addition to battles in this game. When a tank rolls into the streets at Karkand, infantry 
 get scarce and hide in the allys while Anti-Tank scope out there target. Helocopters are a great 
 addition to the game too, but are hardly a match taking on a jet (by the way flying jets is AWSOME) . 
 There is one MAJOR flaw. THERES NO SINGLEPLAYER CAMPAIGN!!. On single player the only thing there 
 is is quickmatch. Oh great choose a level and difficulty and blast away. Wheres the story ??? Oh 
 well, no matter, battlefield 2 will be a favored game by many for a long while yet, and im proud 
 to give this game 3 thumbs up :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_pWnzz_YoU
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  To any fan of gaming i advise you BUY THIS GAME, its probably the best multiplayer FPS ever!!! 
 (CS 1.6 and BF2142 are runners up) theres so many things to do (eg. awards, ranks, playing LAN 
 w/friends, or just playing multiplayer) that keep you wanting to play, later on rank ups do get 
 longer and harder, (thats where 2142 beats BF2) but still this has been my favorite BF and will 
 be for a long time. This was the first game i got for my PC and everyone should have it, the graphics 
 are great as well as your selection of weapons and classes (Spec Ops., Sniper, Assault, Medic, 
 Support, Engineer, and Anti Tank) we need more games like this to make people happy. so i'm ending 
 it here, this is a fantastic game buy it now!!!! (my user name is HinduMonkey on BF2:) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noobberry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  In the 90's, you probably played Battle field 1942. Then came the expansion packs adding more features 
 in it... well guess what a new sequel just came out. BF2 a revolutionary game that changed gaming 
 what it feels.
  
  Graphics: Dam theses are top touch and EA does a great job on graphics and alway keeps a steady 
 frame rate right. (im running low and i get 70 frames WOO)
  
  Sounds: Too realism and awsome....
  
  Gameplay: OMG the real thing about BF2, all you do is 
 to shoot, kill, shoot kill, thats about it. theres a new squad and commander option which fits 
 pretty well.
  
  Overall: BF2 slides in front for one of the best shooters there is... below from Counter Strike
 
  
  Rent or Buy: BUY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowTheHHFan
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the battlefield series. And this game isn't at all disappointing to 
 it. If anything its a step upwards. If you've ever played a battlefield game before. You should 
 know this game isn't much different from that. But there are many added features which make it 
 even more awesome. You can now earn medals depending on how good you do witha certain weapon or 
 if you win a gold medal during a fight. The game also has a new Squad feature, Which allows you 
 to have more of a strategy in the game, not to mention it allows the mic feature to activate. You 
 can also view other people states and compare them to your own. AS a added bonus, You can unlock 
 weapons to be used in Multi-player ( Which should be the thing you do the most) Without Multi-player 
 this game really isn't meant to be played.
  
  The graphics have improved a lot and the Sound is impeccable.
  
  This game is perfect for FPS 
 fans. And if you're new to the series or FPS type games. This wont disappoint you.
  
  If you found this review to be useful, Please recommend it. Thanks for reading.
  
  Gameplay: 
 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound/Music: 8
  Replay Value: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowolf_12
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Well I got this game and played both single player and multiplayer. Single  
 Bots are smart and know what they are doing, and if you turn up the difficulty all the way it is 
 one tough fight.
  Multiplayer ------------------ Awesome maps!!!!, great viechle balence. Even though if a good pilot 
 steals your combat chopper then your life just got really really annoying. I had a few gripes about 
 the game: There is no one hit kill sniper rifle, even the 50 Cal Barret!!!!! A few very good veihcle 
 drivers are un beatable. You start out with bad weapons and as you gain skill in the game you also 
 get guns to give you an edge so the noobs never have a fighting chance except to run and take spawn 
 posts and hope they live.
  Besides that the squad warfare is awesome, the multiplayer experience is unbeat! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMaul135
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. and it really shines in Multiplayer. The single player isnt much to 
 speak of, except it allows you to get a grip and feel for how things might work, and an easy live 
 fire exercise. 16 player combat is what it is limited to without modding.
  
  The game depicts a near the future combat situation (following current events) of how WWIII might 
 come out to be Middle Eastern Coalition Vs. USA+EU. and also America+EU vs China. You get to play 
 as a soldier on the ground, and play out all of the many roles real infantry take on. Or you can 
 leave the ground and go run to the airfield and fly a nice variety of air craft from fixed wing 
 to rotary wing. And they sometimes depict actual invetory items in america or the middle east (no 
 middle eastern country has the T-90, but some have M1A2 and M1A1, which isnt in the game for them, 
 although you can steal and commandeer enemy tanks, or the American F-35 Lightning II which hasnt 
 entered service or full production yet) But the fictionalized factions and redrawing of inventiry 
 doesnt take away from the fun, just makes it easier to know Arab from American (apart from a Mustache 
 and Beard Arab) Air Combat is awesome and very fast paced. The game is very balanced in everything, 
 only team play and lack of common sense might make the balancing issue seem unreal, but it is 100% 
 balanced.
  
  The game lacks Naval battles of WWII, which might be true to an extent, but I doubt China or Arab 
 countries wont try to use thier navies in one way or another. Still this never takes away the fun 
 of infantry and Armor combat.
  
  Then comes sound. Sound is VERY awesome in this game. If you have the correct sound card and sound 
 system to experience the most of it. I only have a 2.1 system (gotta save up :P im poor) but my 
 X-Fi Fatal1ty GamerPro Card allows me to crank all the settings to the Ultra High settings, with 
 EAX and everything, very awesome and realistic sounds. Apart from the sound itself Arabic language 
 is very good and correct (actually Arabic on this game sounds more beleivable and something youd 
 hear unlike BF2: MC for X360)
  
  Graphics are just beatufiul, also if you have a good graphics card to show you everything youd 
 want to see. I use an eVGA 8800GTS (320MB) . Cranking the graphics on all High with highest AA/AS 
 and 1600x1200 you see alot of beatiful mountain scenery in China, or a typical urban city like 
 Kharkand and anything youd expect to see in a war torn city.
  
  Over all I give the game two thumbs up. 9.5 :) Thanks EA Games for making us one of your rare good 
 games. Yes this is only to praise the game not to punish EA for other mistakes and thier tech support, 
 etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mic_Raki
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  i did'nt really play pc games until this one and although single player is quite easy and after 
 a while of playing all the different areas it gets a bit boring. But once i started playing online 
 i found it to be extremely enjoyable and addictive and it is definitely the best multiplayer i 
 have played in a long time. The graphics are pretty good, the choice of guns and vehicles is awesome 
 plus the unlocks. All the different things to do in the game ranging from being a sniper to special 
 forces, jumping out of choppers and parachuting or legging it around as an anti tanker. All this 
 add's to the fun, tactics, sometimes chaotic and addictive online play that any gamer looking for 
 a modern tactical shooter will enjoy and then love when they discover the online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brobnado777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I normally dont get into games that much but this game really got me into PC gaming. Once i got 
 good and joined a clan and stuff the expirence just enhances. The world is awesome looking. COmbat 
 is amazing. Points and easy to get (if you kill good just go cap some flags you get more points) . Most 
 people are willing to give you tips online. The game looks amazing and best part is... the unlocks. Some 
 of these guns are just deadly. The F2000 assault rifle is freaking insane. The SCAR-L is beast. The 
 PKM which i call the Peferct Killing Machine will mess you up. The L85A1 is amazingly accurate. 
 The L95A1 sniper will pretty much kill your enemy in one well place shot. Other than the guns the 
 vehicles are awesome. Graphics look great and the game promises just one good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTZH
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This is still one of the best PC games out there, I bought it back in 2005 and still haven't stopped 
 playing it. I've played all the other battlefields as well, but this one is unique and alot of 
 fun.
  
  pros: Amazing... very Amazing... (you can say that again) multi player. Awsome gameplay, you can 
 shoot, fly and drive anything in BF2. The ranking system is the best out there, and the ranks will 
 keep you playing for at least 2 years. (takes about 400-500 hours of gameplay just to get to 2nd 
 LT) . Graphics and sound are great aswell.
  
  cons: ummmmmm.... well theres no singleplayer but its meant to be a MP game only.
  
  Conclusion: 
 great game, if you have a PC buy this game, its really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hell_Dude
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 13, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  The fight is about to start , so I will make this quick. There's a war between US and China, but 
 because MEC wont shut the hell up US had to go to war with them too. There are a dozen of battles 
 for you fight in, all across Middle East and China. You can fight with maximum 64 other hard boiled 
 man in one battle. At the start of each battle you will have to choose your class. You can help 
 people by healing them as medic , resupply their ammo as Support or fixing their rides as engineer. 
 Or screw that, if you are blood thirsty you can just kill them all being under the assault class 
 , blow up their vehicles as one of the Anti-Tank unit, kill them from a distance with a sniper 
 rifle or go behind enemy lines as Spec-ops. But if in the middle of a battle you realize that sniping 
 sucks you can always change to a class that more fits your needs. Also you can hop in to all kinds 
 of military vehicles. Such as tanks, jeeps, Anti Aircraft Vehicles, boats, helicopters and even jets. 
 Use these vehicles to capture enemy posts , or defend yours. Because the one army who can keep 
 the most posts reduces the other army's tickets, and we all know that the first army with 0 tickets 
 looses the battle. But always remember that you aren't at the top of the food chain except if you 
 apply to be the commander. The on guy that can give orders to team leaders, drop supply's and jeeps, 
 call UAV and the most important he can call artillery strikes. So if you're not the commander , 
 better stick to a team and go up your ranks. Oh , didn't I tell you , by competing in these combat 
 situations you get higher and higher ranks. Every time you go from a private to private first class 
 or from captain to major you can unlock new weapons, for a even more killing power. That's it solder 
 , now go to the fight... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamesEvermore
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This Is The Best Game Ever! For Some Reasons. The Controls Are Great Just Like Battlefield 1942, 
 Except The Commander Part.
  
  Singleplayer:
  It is fun to play singleplayer on this game it is just that the teammates ain't to smart.. This 
 game isnt made for singleplayer but if you are new in this game it is very good practise, when 
 you play singleplayer you can be commander and it is smart that everyone that is new in the game 
 learns how it is to be commander. And you can get much extra point for being commander : ) .
  
  Controls:
  It is very good almost like Battlefield 1942, the diffrens is the commander part 
 and single mode on the gun and auto mode, cant remember if they got that on Battlefield 1942 but 
 i dont think so.. After all the controlls are good you learn it fast.
  
  Multiplayer:
  The multiplayer mode owns! and the game is a multiplayer and well it isnt to much to say about 
 it.. Maps: It is 3 map sices it is 64, 35 and 16.
  Kits: are Medic, Engineer, Assault, Support, SpecialOps.
  
  Battlefield 2 got a rank system, 
 you starts like Private and you go up for how much you play and whats your score is thats goes 
 from Teamscore to Combat score and kill score of course..
  
  When you are Lance Seargent or something you can choice a new weapon from a list you will see and 
 learn about.. Good Luck And Have Fun ; ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriplePlay2425
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 12, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that is highly addictive, having everything that a modern warfare game should have. 
 You can command the army, lead a squad, fly a helicopter (transport or combat) , fly a jet (bomber 
 or attack jet) , drive a tank, anti-aircraft, Hum-V, or control a mountain machine gun. This is 
 all in addition to the various kits that can be used as an infantry soldier, such as medic, special-ops, 
 anti-tank, assault, support, or engineer. As commander you can call artillery strikes, and manage 
 your team by sending vehicles and supplies where needed. This is an excellent game, although has 
 a huge learning curve due to the many players that have already spent many hours playing and become 
 pros at it. But this is a great game though, and you can spend many hours playing it without ever 
 getting tired of it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alchemist19
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Anybody who has ever played an online game before like the Unreal Tournament series or W. O. W. will 
 know how fun they are not only because of the graphics and gameplay but also because the ability 
 to play against other people around the world, and this game is no different. In fact this is one 
 of the best games ever because of all the things possible in the game. With the ability to have 
 as many as 64 real people around the world fighting together or against each other on the same 
 map can be quite exciting as you and your team fight others with bullets litterally coming from 
 every direction. Of course if you don't have online capabilities the game is still fun on single 
 player mode, but to fully enjoy this game i recommend playing online. The graphics are amazing 
 and the only drawback is there isn't really any blood when you shoot someone, and also this game 
 only works with Nvidia graphics series 6 and up. What also makes this game amazing is the different 
 ways you can around fighting everyone, whether it be by land, sea, or air. Being able to get into 
 a tank mow down your enemies is quite satisfying knowing that you have just P Oed someone around 
 in the world. All in all this game is quite fun and is recommended to anybody who enjoys online 
 games and a great FPS all in one, just make sure you have a good graphics card first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prtofdacrowd
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 9, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  The game starts with a highly complicated server choice menu, which surely enough you will click 
 on more to find one that actually lets you in than counter-strike.
  
  The game it self is huge with loads of expansion packs which add new maps and gameplays. Up to 
 64 players online is a great online multiplayer experience, but sometimes it takes a while to find 
 someone to point your crosshair at before they disappear! The vehicles are well detailed and highly 
 responsive compared to other vehicles in games that are very hard to control, you can master sea, 
 land, and air in about 2 turns in the vehicle. The real learning curve is manging to shoot all 
 the higher ranks that jump, roll and duck everywhere and are cocky enough to commit suicide by 
 kamazing you or your vechile.
  
  There are fixed guns which can come in handy if you find yourself being chased or constant bombardment 
 from a certain airborne enemy.
  
  Addictive, Annoying, Great Fun
  
  Worth the money! (BUT only if you happen to get it with the expansion packs) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beowulf2525
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 7, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The AI has not improved much since its predecessors. You will still have the moments 
 where the AI will stand there shooting at you with a pistol. Even on the expert setting, the AI 
 is bad. So this is one of those games where it is required to have an internet connection and highly 
 recommended to have a good microphone. BF2 is as addictive as World of Warcraft. Although with 
 less magic and more technology.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty smooth. Runnable with an nVidea 6600. You can max them out with 
 a 6800 or better. When maxed out, it is a very nice looking game.
  
  Sound: This could be better. Almost impossible to distinguish what you're being shot at with. Tanks, 
 APC's, Cars, Jets, and Helicoptors, they all sound the same for each side. You only know what it 
 is by looking at your map or by visually finding it. Not very ideal for a 'Modern Battlefield.' 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RelXe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 5, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  Like i said, of the ( or maybe even THE ) greatest multiplayer right now. So much freedom and getting 
 yourself experienced with the class, vehicle you like. Whether you want to be any class and in 
 a chopper, or a mechanic in a T-90, it's all good :)
  The game at first had many flaws. But after a ****load of patches the game seems almost flawless. 
 One other best of things i like about the games is the unlock and rank/badges/awards. I just love 
 fighting and working for those things. All and all... can't really say what i DONT like about the 
 game. It's a genuine Masterpiece it's just revolutionary :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2's options and game play has changed me from a die hard UT player to a dedicated battlefield 
 strategist.
  
  Voice over IP enabled! From the overhead jets to the chaingun, the sound is great. My favorites 
 are the US forces, Hey. I need a ride! . The MEC force's Arabic is very realistic. I bet if you 
 play enough of this game on the Middle East Coalition team, you'll learn enough Arabic to chase 
 down Osama yourself .... riiiiiiight.
  
  Gameplay is perfection. The smoothness and effects are almost too real, and although it has great 
 squad/commander settings, none of that full on hardcore gaming experience has been lost. Love the 
 vehicles too. I just love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppelin1977
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Single player in BF 2 is incredible and has been worked on alot since BF 1942, The AI is increased 
 significantly and now the NPC's are tactical.
  Multiplayer is really where BF 2 comes into it's own, with conquest modes and various other modes 
 if brings you hours of fun.
  There are many weapons, verchials and aircraft including planes.
  
  The Graphics are miles 
 better then in BF Vietnam and are pretty breath-taking at times.
  
  The sounds in this game is brillient it really brings you into the heat of combat, you can experiance 
 the sound of bullets ricoshaying off the wall or hear bullets fly past your head.
  
  The value for money is excellant, when you buy the game you get patchs and updates for free, there 
 are no monthly fees or any extra costs except for the Broadbrand Charges
  
  BF 2 is well worth buying if your P. C can handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief725
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is an interesting game. I have to say, when I got it working, it was the best game 
 I have ever played, it edged out Halo. Being able to fly jets, and helicopters, and drive all kinds 
 of ARV's, and the great squad tactics. This is an excellent game. I have three major issues with 
 this game. 1. You need a very new computer to run this game, although it says it will work easily 
 with my computer, the gameplay is extremely choppy. Considering this game competes with F. E. A. R. 
 and COD 2 which run great on my computer. That was very dissapointing. 2. The load times, I guess 
 I am one of those impatient americans, but come on...15 minute loading times!!! COME ON!! And factored 
 in that, I have not been able to play multiplayer because of the loading times. They are so long, 
 that my computer just eventually goes into standby. So I have only any gameplay experience on single 
 player training. And 3. Support!!! I bought all the expansions for this game, and it turned out 
 that the CD key would not work... So I e-mailed EA, sent them an excess of 20 emails, and did all 
 their crap. Finally they told me to get a new game, and I just gave up. I returned the expansions. 
 And i still cant get rid of the EA newsletters i get now. I hate EA, im never buying another one 
 of their games again. With the junk they gave me about this game. If they hadnt made it, it would 
 have been awesome. On single player, the sound was great, the most realistic I have ever heard, 
 and the value was great, only $26 for this game. But unfortunately, EA ruined it for me, and it 
 will have to show in my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuCkY9512
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  With the success of previous BattleField games it would be hard to imagine that EA Games would 
 be able to create a sequel that could live up to expectations but they have.
  
  Most of my time with this game has been online multiplayer, and let me tell you, the multiplayer 
 is just incredible. Up to 64 players in a server on many different maps on almost any type of battlefield 
 imaginable. The game offers several different classes such as the classic battlefield classes and 
 some new ones like special forces each with there own unique capabilites and uses adding a lot 
 of realism to the game. Unlinke many war-style first person shooters battlefield 2 is not limited 
 to running around on foot shooting each other. Battlefield 2 not only has ground combat on foot 
 but also with tanks, humvees, APC's and more aswell as combat in the air with transport choppers, 
 attack choppers and jet fighters. As in the real world, in battlefield 2 there is a commander who 
 is selected at the beginning of each round. Anyone may apply to be the commander but of those that 
 apply, the person with the highest rank will be selected. The commander is an important job and 
 can supply vehicles and supplies aswell as do artillary strikes, radar scans and of course command 
 the squads.
  The game also offers one thing others don't for multiplayer, and that is a reason to keep playing. 
 Multiplayer games are awsome, but lets face it, eventually playing the same thing time after time 
 with no gain after a while becomes boring. So BattleField 2 gives you that gain in the form of 
 ranks. As you accumulate more kills, repairs, heals, strategic object destroys and more you get 
 an accumulated score from all that making essentially a player score. The more points toward your 
 player score and you gain ranks, with ranks you get the ability to unlock new weapons for the different 
 kits aswell as a better chance of being selected commander all of which adds realism and a purpose 
 to the game.
  The graphics are great. Considering the game is now over 2 years old, of course games have surpased 
 it to some extenet but the attention to detail is insane. I could ramble on about the games many 
 features and upsides but i think you get the idea. Now of course we have to go with the downsides 
 to the game.
  
  Battlefield 2 requires a lot from your PC. Without a higher-end PC you are probably going to have 
 difficulty running the game. The minimum system requirements should be much higher as i don't think 
 it's playable with the listed requirements. Even with a higher-end PC the game still has very long 
 loading times and will sometimes have bad lag untill you are in a server for a while which is somewhat 
 to be expected seeing as the graphic detail is amazing and the size and complexity of the maps, 
 vehicles ect.
  
  Overall, BattleField 2 gives you that realistic feel of how a battlefield would really be as opposed 
 to some other first person shooters such as call of duty that although a great game, dosn't even 
 come close to the feel of realism offered by battlefield 2. With a ton of upsides and only a few 
 minor drawbacks the game is certainly a great value and even for a 2+ year old game it can still 
 level up in graphics and is unsurpassed in realism. Anyone who is a fan of the classic BattleField 
 1942 and Vietnam series will be pleased with this game and i would encourage anyone to buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Horde
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 27, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  After all the historic Battlefield games come Battlefield 2, a modern day shooter that will loads 
 of enjoyment.
  
  First off, the feeling is extra ordinary. You hear that the artillery bombs are falling down upon 
 you, you hop into a shelter and really feel how the ground shakes and gravel and dust explodes 
 and is shattered everywhere.
  
  Battlefield 2 also has a lot more classes, like the Special Forces, that are good in normal range 
 weapon fighting, and as they are also equipped with C4's that can be used to blow up enemy help 
 structures and veichles.
  
  What I like about Battlefield 2 is that it is a tactical shooter. It feels like you really are 
 on a battlefield, fighting a war. You gain more hiding and waiting to strike then standing in the 
 middle of the road with a heavy machinegun, shooting everywhere, hoping to hit something. Because, 
 frankly, odds are that they will hit and kill you first.
  
  Battlefield 2 offers a large variety of different battlefields. From small islands with large naval 
 ships to close quarters combat in cities and desert towns.
  
  Battlefield 2 is more of an online game though, as the (At least I think) coolest system is introduced 
 in online mode : The ranks and awards. For every kill you make, every objective you complete and 
 every class objective you complete (Such as blowing up enemy help objects, reviving fallen players, 
 reparing veichles) you gain points. Those points are added up into one mass of points, which are 
 added to a sort of Player score . When that score reaches a certain amount, you gain a new rank 
 and advance in the army. When you reach some ranks you get to choose new weapons for some classes. 
 There are very many ranks and they will take a pretty long time to advance through. Awards have 
 also been introduced. If you do some special things, or play extra much with one class, you will 
 recieve awards in forms of medals, badges and bands. As said above, this is what I like the most 
 about Battlefield 2, because it feels like you gain something from playing the game, killing the 
 opposite team and doing your thing. Even if you play worse then some other players, you might still 
 get points from other things and be able to advance in the ranks anyways. Maybe a bit slower, but 
 still enjoyable.
  
  So if you are a fan of first person shooters and are looking for a new game to purchase, then Battlefield 
 2 should be your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peppers30
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 27, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is based on a modern combat theme that gives you the choice of picking three different 
 teams. You have the USMC, MEC, and China. Even though this game is getting a bit dated now it still 
 ranks among the top of the most popular games. The most attractive thing about this game is the 
 stats feature. While playing you earn points from killing the enemy, capturing flags, or giving 
 some kind of aid. As your points add up you get further and further advancement in rank as well 
 as the choice to unlock weapons. This is not your basic FPS! You can use Jets, Boats, Tanks, Helicopters, 
 Jeeps, or if you want you can just go along on foot. This game does have its down points which 
 includes glitches which come with every game, cheaters, stat padders, etc.... The bottom line is 
 that for the price this game is at now you can not beat it. As long as you find a good server to 
 play on and make some friends to play with in a well organized squad you will have fun. A good 
 server for you all to check out is the Damnocracy Gaming [DAMN] servers. No over-drastic rules! 
 Just your basic common sense rules. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nokiakevj
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 23, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  battlefield 2 used to be one of those games sitting around waiting to be picked up. After found 
 out about multiplayer mode, this game stayed on top of alll my other games, counter strike, call 
 of duty 2, need for speed, sims 2 (w/ all expansions) company of heros, tom clancy's rainbow six 
 vegas and many more! the graphics, the gameplay and the multiplayer mode makes this one of the 
 greatest games ever. Flying a plane, driving tanks underwater, running from cannons, shooting artilleries 
 just make a smart part of this AWESOME game. i cant describe how great this game is, knowing tat 
 it was a graphics hungry game, upgrading to 2 7900gt and a athlon 4000+ at 3.0ghz and verison fiberoptics 
 lets me run video settings on high with a average ping of about 20-70 with a minimum of 10 megabytes 
 per second. this game never looked so real and fun, playing for more than 1 year even gives me 
 chills when something startles me from the behind. this game delivers quality sound tat makes this 
 game sound like it just came out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miles13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Great on-line multi player game. Squad based battle makes game-play very fun. Would recommend to 
 anyone looking for a break from the game-playing style of the Half Life games. Physics are realistic 
 and the advanced controls make it a must buy. The only downside to the game currently is stats 
 don't always update correctly or on time. When stats are updated, the ranking system is a very 
 nice feature. Earning medals and ranks and the ability to unlock more guns makes the game more 
 enjoyable. Also the expansion packs add a nice touch with additional weapons, maps, vehicles and 
 features. Again, this game is a must buy if you are a fan of FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revolution_DDM
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 21, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2, an amazing game in my opinion. The graphics are pretty, the gameplay is addictive, 
 and the ranking and award system gives it depth. Consider buying this game if you haven't already.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9 Whether you want to be a medic, sniper, or just a straight up shooter, you can be just 
 that. Great map design and exciting gun play make for an awesome experience right from the start. 
 I did notice however that air vehicles are a tad overpowered, but nothing to cry about. The in-depth 
 ranking/unlock/reward system draws you back in every time.
  
  Graphics: 9 Just beautiful. The buildings, the smoke, the explosions, they are all great.
  
 
  Sound: 8 Explosions are great. Guns sound great. Personally I hate the opening music.
  
  Value: Makes you want more and more. I've yet to get bored of the gameplay after many many hours.
 
  
  Battlefield 2 is an excellent game that is well-rounded and fun to play. If you haven't already 
 picked up this one, you should definitely consider it. Did I mention it's only $20? Check it out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grizzlyman93
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  OK. I have played BF2 for about 150 hours total now. But i have stopped playing. In terms of graphics 
 this is one of the best games ever made. But multi-player isn't fun anymore. Jets are too hard 
 to fly, too hard to get your hands on and almost everyone TKs you to get them first (i. e putting 
 vehicles on runway) and the jets come with TWO bombs which is totally retarded. In infantry only 
 servers its frustrating because you bust your ass to revive people and they don't do sh*t for you. 
 The players are medically retarded and they cant use a defibrillator. It frustrates me at map switch 
 time when it says the best revive score of the round is 2 Meaning 1 revive (which is terrible) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kliu0
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 15, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is easily one of the best games of the year. The new game in the Battlefield series 
 really adds the new features that make the battlefield franchise a hit. New weapons, new vehicles, 
 new strategies to play with all add to the excitement. Do whatever you want on the battlefield, 
 steal humvees, crush opponents with your tanks, sneak behind an enemy with a buggy, strike the 
 enemy black hawk down style. Whatever you are comfortable with, it is all there. Graphics have 
 been improved greately with more customisation. Online Stats ensure that the game continues on 
 after a period of time, unlocks make players more and more addicted into the game. More realistic 
 gameplay such as blurring, shock pads, parachute control, gun overheating, commander control makes 
 the game a masterpiece. Sound has improved but still not top notch. Teamwork is now an important 
 factor as good teamwork can turn the tide of battle, while the opposite applies to bad teamwork. 
 Gameplay can sometimes be intense when urban firefights start. Overall it is a good game, and it 
 is a value for money game one that will last for several years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wafi-Ali
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 13, 2007 3:08 am PT
Review:  This the best battlefield game i have ever played i would recommend it for all because this game 
 not just FPS its everything, you fly you can play while in armer .... etc.
  
  Recently most players facing problems with the stats update including points medals , awards .. etc 
 , the mode of the BF2 to keep you playing are those awards and Ranks , as the game it self is fun 
 but the awards and points will keep you going on, i would recommend for the players who owns BF2 
 to play on this server ( moongamers. com ) also you search for this server while the game running 
 by typing ( Moon ) in the search space for the multi player, i mostly play strike at karkand on 
 the moon server, as its the best server i have ever played on because of all types of players experience 
 there but mostly they are professionals, so give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migsten
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I don't think I would change anything about this game. The game-play is perfect, I could not ask 
 for better graphics, and sound is awesome. The only down side, is that you need a good computer 
 to run it. You especially need a good video card. I don't think the suggestion that EA gives you 
 for minimum video card compatibility is adequate. An X series ATI card seems to be sufficient for 
 average performance. Other than the high demand for hardware specifications this game is full of 
 fun. This is by far the best war game I have ever played, it gives quite an experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arianhabibi458
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 2:44 am PT
Review:  The Battlefield series is a favorite of mine. It offers up a unique shooter experience that you 
 don't find elsewhere in a realistic setting. Vehicles and infantry move realistically, and weapons 
 have firing cones and rates that mimic actual life fairly closely (balanced for fun, of course) . 
 More importantly, the pace of the game is undeniably fun, and the Battlefield moments like helicopters 
 getting sideswiped by planes, tanks exploding, bodies catapulting across the sky, and so on, are 
 all so frickin' cool that it's near impossible to stop playing. Battlefield 2 is a lot like the 
 original 1942, in that respect. But this time around, the developers at DICE and publishers at 
 EA have set out to create a more team-oriented experience with their official sequel, and they've 
 done a terrific job at that. Battlefield 2 is a great game. After playing for quite a few hours 
 (often shirking other responsibilities) , I and pretty much everyone else here at gamespot will 
 heartily recommend BF2 to fans of the series and beg those who haven't played before or didn't 
 like the original to give the demo a whirl. Any game that can make a large group of editors take 
 a Saturday and play for 14 hours straight until 4:30 in the morning has to be pretty awesome... 
 It's just not perfect.
  
  Battlefield 2 is set in the near future, where plausible conflicts between the US and both China 
 and the Middle East Coalition (a fictional faction) flare up. Most of the battle locations seem 
 to center around oil fields, refineries or dams, which makes a kind of sense given the conflicts. 
 Each of these areas also comes with a small description about the purpose of the map, which helps 
 explain things a bit.
  
  Twelve different locations make Battlefield's battlefields. Maps aren't as diverse as I would have 
 liked them to be but are still pretty well thought-out. Some environments are better than others 
 in terms of gameplay, while a few simply look cool. Strike at Karkand, for instance, is an excellent 
 map. It combines fast-paced gameplay with good amounts of strategy in an urban setting. It's got 
 a claustrophobic appeal that makes the experience much more intense. It's a perfect map for tightly 
 grouped infantry combat, and I suspect it'll become a favorite of those that prefer a match without 
 a ton of huge vehicles. On the other side of the spectrum is Kubra Dam, which I have a strong distaste 
 for. While the dam does look really cool (particularly when flying around in a helicopter) , this 
 particular map is a huge pain in the ass to navigate without a vehicle -- enough so that it creates 
 a vortex of fun so that those of us in the office who have been playing now have little faith that 
 it'll get any better with time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cramhains2
Rating: 1.8
Date: Jul 16, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Way too many glitches, patches adds more glitches or doesn't fix glitches and doesn't reduce the 
 amount of glitches (Search Battlefield 2 Glitches on Google to find at least 10 glitches) , Special 
 Forces weapon can be used in servers with Battlefield 2 only (UNFAIR ADVANTAGE!) , Artillery can 
 be only seen after a certain amount graphics (ALSO AN UNFAIR ADVANTAGE!) . You get a teamkill and 
 suicide when a jet hits you when you're in a parachute (the other person came down and it me) .
 
  
  You can lose control after going up a certain altitude and can kill you if you go out of the map 
 Some cheaters never get banned (entering a building glitch) and controlling both airfields or having 
 a flag that's cannot be captured while the other team doesn't have one (USMC Wake Island for example) , 
 will almost always win Not worth spending 30$ for this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marolia
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 9, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Battlefield is a multiplayer game. There is no story mode nor missions or anything else. You play 
 with other people live!
  The one think I like about battlefield 2 is that they made it in a great way, theyve putten ranks. 
 Its like the more you kill the higher you get. And when youre in the highest rank than anyone 
 else, you can become a commander. You can throw bombs do whatever you want. Command you squads, 
 etc.
  
  The maps in this game are huge. You need a transport to move around. The bigger it is, the funner 
 it will be.
  There are also lots of vehicles in this game, there are Jets, helicopter, jeeps, tanks, more tanks, 
 etc.
  
  You can also choose, what you want to become. You can become a Sharpshooter, Medic, Special Forces, 
 etc.
  There are also lots of awesome weapons in the game. The graphics are awesome, it looks amazing 
 when you fly a jet and look down. The sound are ok, could have been a bit better. If you have a 
 very fast internet connection, you wont have any problems with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MutilatedBunny
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 brings great quality in all areas. As far as gameplay goes, its close to your typical 
 FPS, but the quality of it is amazing. Bullets have fall rates, so you can shoot across the map 
 (you won't be able to see that far) . I've never played a game with so many different vehicle options 
 either. Transport Helicopters, Attack choppers, tanks, APCs, Bombers, Fighters, you name it. All 
 of them are real life vehicles, although they don't quite meet the specks of the real life ones.
 
  You have several kits avialible to you, and can pick different ones up from dead oppenents.
  The graphics vary on whether you have them on Low to High, on High I often will get so caught I 
 forget its not real. Low is fairly similar, and allows the game to not require so many resoures. 
 Which is one of its only downfalls, is the game is a extreme resource hog, even on a fairly high 
 end pc.
  Sound quality is amazing. You can tell where bullets and bombs are coming from just from when you 
 hear them wizz past your head. The Battlefield series has been kept up with by EA for a while, 
 so its always got updates and is just a game you will completely lose track of time on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xp0svolc0mx
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, Du-dun-dun-dun-du-dun...
  I dont know about you, but everytime a game's theme song is good enough for me to hum it... must 
 be pretty awesome. Which this game is... awesome.
  Du-dun-dun-dun-du-dun.
  To the review!
  
  Gameplay: WASD, right click, left click, space bar, z, left ctrl, and 4 . Now, for those who 
 have never played BF2 and are thinking 4!?!? What the fu- STOP. The number 4 is probally the most 
 over used and annoying control in the game. Well, to me it is at least. And for one reason, Grenades. 
 The start of the round usually begins with a lob of grenades thrown toward your spawn. Does it 
 get annoying? yes. But you get over it... I guess. This game has a very in-depth system which is 
 awesome in every possible way. Instead of having 32 people yapping at each other on the mic, you 
 can create a squad... Select a few people to it, and talk. The squad leader, can talk to the commander, 
 who, in the game, can deploy crates of ammo/health, vehicles, UAV, or artilley strikes. It is a 
 pretty deep system. Also, the whole game is based on a point system. Which will help you unlock 
 better and stronger weapons. It is pretty awesome... You can go to BFHQ and compare your stastics 
 to your friends online. But at the moment, the point system is not working... BUMMER. Du-dun-dun-dun-du-dun...
 
  
  If your a novice player in the game... AKA noob. I suggest sticking to the medic class, You can 
 get the most points whoring people with med pacs and reviving them with shock pads... (which can 
 be used as a weapon) .
  
  Graphics: Pretty nice looking game... The view distance is pretty lame now but It is no really 
 problem unless your a sniper sometimes. But really, it is no big problem. The soldiers are detailed 
 and the enviroment is realistically mapped. There are enough different types of maps to keep it 
 interesting for a while. Eventually you will find a map you like... such as infantry focused, or 
 vehicle focused. Personally, I like infantry... bang.
  
  
  Sound: All FPS games should sound like this one, nuff said.
  
  Value: Best multi-player shooter 
 out there right now, get it, play it, love it, hum it. Reviewer's Tilt: I tilt it to a 9.
  
  Du-dun-dun-dun-du-dun.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mttyd
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 7, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  The only thing better than BF2 is BF 2142. While some people may complain about bunny hopping and 
 the ol' run to this flag, now ok run to that flag. I really think BF2 was a great step in the right 
 direction. The rank system was a great way to incorporate some of the RPG elements into a strictly 
 FPS CTF game. Although the game has flaws like long loading times etc. I had to bump my rating 
 up to a 10. Once I stopped and thought about it the game has greatly improved on the battlefield 
 series and has made a positive step in PC gaming overall.
  
  Good job EA (next time get those patches out faster!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacedog1973
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Its not that I like this game - its fun no doubt, graphics cool, gameplay fast and furious - its 
 just that this is the best war multiplayer out there.
  
  Thats an honest statement based upon fact and I say that reluctantly. yes this is war, but yes 
 this is arcade war. bodies jump up and sort nor spread and bounce when they die. Often they twitch 
 for a bit afterword. No its not realistic at all, just part of the fast and furious game that is 
 BF2.
  
  Lets be honest; this is not Counter strike. in BF2 you can die again and again and again and again.... 
 and bounce right back up at a spawn point or at your g group leader.
  
  The ranking system at present is AWOL at the time of writing this, but made me think about all 
 the folk out there, who like on other multiplayer games, spend all their teenage life, and often 
 more playing morning noon and night in order to gain 'something' that perhaps for whatever reason 
 they cannot in real life. I always think that sucks, but the rank system in BF2 I think encourages 
 it.
  
  So when you are pawned again and again by the same hard core general, remember that work life social 
 life balance has a price..
  
  Saying that, I want to rank up myself, it cool and addictive.
  
  I want to see a realistic 
 war game with the level of graphics that BF2 has but with a level of realism without a ranking 
 system, that approaches BF2 for playablity. Thats when we will see the worth of the game. At the 
 moment there is no close competition.
  
  And thats a shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: styymy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  The focus on teamwork really adds to the experience, eventhough there are quite a few lone wolfs' 
 out there. Weapons and hardware are up to date and accurate. Flying aircraft is a bit of a challenge 
 initially, but adds further to the experience once you get the hang of it. Be sure to play on ranked 
 servers as there are still reports of cheating and utilizing exploits that still haven't been patched 
 eventhough there have been several patches since release. It would have been nice to include other 
 armies British, Russian at or close after initial release. I'd like to see how much further EA 
 can take this in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mustang_rider
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  maybe there is no game that can mach battlefield 2 has a tactical shooter for now this game has 
 improve a lot since battlefield 1942.
  
  graphics are not last generation but it can reproduce nice texture on a descent machine.
  
 
  sound its going better and better DIGI studios and the EA companny knows how to reproduce great 
 sound effects. the vehicles, aircraft, copters, gunshoots, explosion, etc. Sound Great.
  
  its real that you need a good connection and a modem to play this game comfortable with out getting 
 stuck constantly.
  
  also gameplay has improve alot the easy menu access, and the fast way that u can give orders/commands 
 or requesting things and the commander strategic map is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 2:39 am PT
Review:  I've played them all, Call of Duty, every Battlefield, Halo, Far Cry, Half Life 2, but Battlefield 
 2 remains on of the best FPS's of all of these. Why? It's just damn fun. One map can offer more 
 gameplay then most full games. You can always fine something new to do. The packs are all a blast 
 to play especially sniping and special ops. Vehicular combat is amazingly fun and simple, flying 
 is hard to get the hang of but after about an hour you'll be fine and killing people in no time. 
 The modern warfare in this game is unmatched from any other game, it makes America's Army seem 
 laughable. This game is also intense and actually keeps players on the edge of their seat mostly 
 due to the amazing sound and the situations you can encounter. Be it a one on one knife fight or 
 a 8 versus 8 firefight, you'll experience an intense experience unmatched. One of the things I 
 love about this game is the sheer value. It keeps you coming back for more, just wanting to rank 
 up, get that last ribbon. The maps though are well designed, more so then any other Battlefield 
 game, they're massive sometimes and can take hours to learn. You'll get a worthy game experience 
 from one map. With three armies to choose from and many different map types, an amazing multiplayer 
 mod, great mods out, Battlefield 2 is a game worth buying and still playing. You will NOT regret 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrisBolton
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 28, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  If youre looking for fun this is your game! Although fun can turn into frustration when the AI 
 pound you (and only you) with artillery.
  
  The multiplayer alone is a reason to get this game. Thousands of servers with thousands, if not 
 tens of thousands, of players combine to create a brilliant gaming experience. Although before 
 you consider buying this game, you MUST ensure that the speed of your internet is pretty good  
 I refer to what you actually get, not what youre meant to. (Im meant to get 8mbps but I rarely 
 get close to 2mbps) . You may be able to run the game perfectly online, no lag etc. But admins of 
 servers will kick you if you have a high ping  meaning you cant play on any of the good (filled 
 with players) servers. The rank system is a great feature; play on ranked servers and climb up 
 the rank ladder, also unlock weapon upgrades to help you kill more effectively. The only bad points 
 of multiplayer are the fact it can be hard to find a good server if your ping is quite high and 
 some servers are filled with idiots; constantly throwing flash bangs  just for the sake of it.
 
  
  To get the most out of the single player you need the expansion packs; Armoured Fury, Special Forces 
 and Euro Force. Without these expansion packs there are less maps to play on, and the packs also 
 include new weapons and gadgets. (You can get Battlefield 2: The Complete Edition (BF2 + all expansion 
 packs) from play. com for &pound;26.99, Battlefield 2 alone costs 17.99, so you might as well spend 
 the extra &pound;9.) The only bad point of single player is it doesnt register hits sometimes. 
 ie: As a sniper you hit someone in the head, they dont die. To help it register it as a hit, fire 
 and hold the fire button (this only really applies to weapons like the sniper rifle) . A general 
 bad point which became clear while playing multiplayer is the limit for grenades is too high; 4. 
 Most other games give you 3 at the most.
  
  Overall Battlefield 2 has great graphics, hours of play time, definitely great fun (online) and 
 totally worth the money. Just steer clear of idiot servers and high pings! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 22, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Buy Buy Buy Buy Buy this game it rocks!!!!
  
  The Graphics are amazing and sound is incredible.
  
  The best FPS game on the market currently 
 for sure even though its a little old it still holds its own against all the new games out there 
 curently.
  
  Graphics: Very Very Good graphics for any body on a Geforce 7 series on up.
  Sound: Completely incredible on a X-FI but every other sound card runs it pretty decent.
  Game 
 Play: Very Good and easy to use very highly addictive and super fun.
  Pros: The Rating system is a great way to spot out the good players.
  Cons: A little more Microphone 
 support would have been nice.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  Great Game if you have the cash buy this game the Multiplayer is completely amazing It has to be 
 the best FPS game out there.
  
  its highly addictive for any one! :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco0798
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Ok. since their isnt alot of bad ill start with that this game is not america vs russians. it is 
 america vs china. what this means is no T-100 or T-110 battletanks and no russian X-Wing fighters (the 
 russian answer to stealth) . that out of the way this game is AMAZING it is by far the BEST MMFPS 
 there is. your typical life will consist of spawning on a carrier, jumping on a blackhawk/cobra 
 atk helicopter getting into the action blowing up somthing or someone parachute out, take an enemy 
 tank and use it to create mayhem.
  for fans of the series this is simply the desert combat patch except for no apache (big dissapointment) 
 the helicopter are ALOT easier to fly which in a way is bad but understandable since more people 
 can use them. the gameplay remains the same with slight improvements. Online in a 64 man server 
 no noticeable lag as long as you play in your continent.
  If your new to the series this game will absalutely blow your mind if your already a fan simply 
 put this is the best in the series to date.
  THIS S A MUST GET 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonicwolf1942
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 20, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  i would like to see another game from ea in bf series that isnt on the pos bf2 engine and has no 
 bugs with some cool gun upgrades (aimpointers etc) something like they did in NFS: C where you could 
 buy the car and certain packs for new weapons etc. big thing is punkbuster is really a joke, more 
 so since most people just go around it and its prety much worthless still hackers etc lol (maybe 
 its just me)
  
  time for something new EA quit beating a dead horse and start fresh... you tryed to make 2142 work 
 kind of a joke really and your expansion packs (armored fury) kinda floped... something new ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bardiaizad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  this game has a graphics in the high level textures and i think sound of this game is the best 
 parameter that has. but i think the bad parameter that this game has, is the frame rates. when you 
 play game, this thing will appear soon and in a few time you will be irritate about this bug. i suggest 
 you to buy this game and be happy more ofthen and better than everywhen. i think the credits are 
 happy to make this god . the gameplay is not bad and you will be amazing about this subject that 
 the framerates can not effect gameplay in a bad manner to do it bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdrium2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Pros : One of the best multiplayer game ever; great maps; global unlocks/ranking;
  Cons : Clumsy server browser; Slow loading times; Require a high-end computer for maxed settings
 
  
  
  
  Gameplay - It deserves a 10 because the multiplayer is extremely great, especially when you join 
 a 64-player server. Very huge and feels like your really in the army.
  
  Graphics - At maxed settings, your game will look great. But in some maps, maxed and lowest setting 
 barely have any difference. Still, very nice graphics.
  
  Sound - Nice action sound, especially the soldier commands and stuff. This is real army.
  
 
  Value - Go go, get this game now if you still don't own it. It will last you pretty long, recommended 
 to get BF2 than 2142 as it have lousy maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonefacekilla
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  This game is unbelivably awesome!! Its my favorite game its easy to learn and its so fun!! I love 
 it the sound effects are right next to perfect it makes you feel like its all around you its amazing!! 
 Its so much better then 2142 and easier if you ask me its the best shooter of the battlefield series. 
 Its so fun!!! If you play it use the sniper the sniper is fun and easy to handle. I play online 
 so its alot more fun. Check it out if you havent already its a great shooter and a really fun game 
 its what i would call a masterpiece!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevans963
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  The battlefield 2 franchise is well known and battlefield 2 is sure to not disappoint you. i loved 
 all the past games battlefield 1942 and I'm sure battlefield 2142 will be an added bonus onto battlefield 
 2.. also if for some reason battlefield 2 wasn't good enough for you or if you wanted something 
 more then check out the many different expansion packs for it your sure to find enough game play 
 out of this game!
  
  battlefield 2 is one of the largest online first person shooters out there and should be in a genre 
 of its own. there are ranking systems online where the more you play the higher you rank to come 
 to the top of the army. there are many different sides to play as from many different countries
 
  
  it is one hell of a great game and I'm sure you will have as much fun out of it as i do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield two is one of the best PC games ever. With up to 64 players online and thousands of 
 different servers to choose from, you'll never be bored with this game. There are many different 
 classes to choose from, each with different weapson and unlockables. The maps can be huge or small 
 depending on what kind of round you want to play. There are many vehicles which include jets, helicopters, 
 tanks, jeeps and more! There isn't any single player campaign in this game but you'll find it really 
 doesnt matter because the online-play is so amazing. You can get your rank up and the game keeps 
 track of such things as kills, deaths, worst enemy (who has killed you the most) , best enemy (who 
 you have killed the most) , favourites guns, levels, armies, and vehicles, as well as many other 
 things to do with time and points. The ranking system just makes you want to continue playing and 
 get as many points as you can to rank up. Each level is very different and allows for very tight 
 action or very free roaming style gameplay. You can capture flags, or just defend your flags from 
 opponents and there is always fun to be had in each round. You can join a squad or stay alone but 
 one person on each team in each round can be a commander. As commander you can send supplys or 
 vehicles to your troops, call for an airstrike or set off a radar to see the enemies. With so much 
 to do in this game I would recommend it to anyone who likes a good online or FPS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is the third game in the Battlefield franchise, and my god is it awesome!
  
  The things that BF2 does right are countless, it gives you whole military expierence what UT and 
 CS don't offer in the genre, the fun part of BF2 is that you need to work together with you're 
 team to win the game, thats how games like UT and CS don't work since everybody there has the motivation 
 ''Every man for itself'', if you have that attitude in BF2, you won't last a minute alive.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game starts with choosing a commander, this works by other players that are 
 in you're team selecting a player, if everybody nominates themself, a EA rank system will pick 
 out a player with the highest rank to lead the team, this works great since you'll have somebody 
 in you're team that plays a big role, knows what he's doing.
  
  You are able to pick different classes, ranging from engineers, medics, support and anti-tank guys 
 and more, the rank system comes into play here by giving points to certain players for what they 
 do right, like you are a medic and heal alot of allies, you gain points, get new medals and unlock 
 new weapons, if you are a engineer and repair abit to a friendly tank, you unlock new medals and 
 get new weapons, this counts for every class and it goes on and on, its a big part for the addicting 
 nature in this game because you'll have a constant benefit above you're enemies this way.
  
  The game also has alot of vehicles that also play a big role in the game because the maps are 
 huge, you'll be busy atleast half an hour just tracking thru a map in a straight line, the vehicles 
 will transport faster but some have a certain swing to them, like in the beginning flying is hard, 
 but after a few hours you'll be blazing missles out the sky's.
  
  The game features buggies, jeeps, watercraft, helicopters and jets and ofcourse, armoured jeeps 
 with turrets and lots of different tanks.
  
  Working with you're team is a big part of the game, if you're team is filled with people that do 
 nothing and screw around, you'll lose, thats why the game motivates players to work with you by 
 giving them rewards like weapons, medals and higher ranks to be commander, it works great from 
 my view.
  
  Some other good feature is the Auto-action button you might recognize from PlanetSide, if you die 
 you are able to respawn next to a character thats in combat, in a fun feature that doesn't get 
 you minutes lost from getting to point A to B because you're in the middle of nowhere without vehicles, 
 a other option to get somewhere is to get help from a friendly helicopter thats near you to pick 
 you up.
  
  Helicopters have turrets in them, which I wanted for a long time, helicopter drivers recieve higher 
 ranks if people in their helicopter gun people down with a turret, that means they'll mostly slow 
 down and hang over a crowded spot and lets me kill people, it works great.
  
  Graphics/Sound:
  Everything in the game looks and sounds fantastic, bullets kick up mud and dust 
 and make sparks in certain objects, shellshocks make you're ears tingle, you'll hear gun fire from 
 miles away when you are traveling on foot with a squad, you'll see tree's waving as you get up 
 higher with you're aircraft, the water looks amazingly scripted and waves around if you hit the 
 water with a bullet, all these things combined add to the great military feel of this game.
  
  The maps are huge, literally, every map takes you atleast 30 minutes to track thru in a straight 
 line, everything in the game looks fantastic and still looks, after about 3 years after its release 
 still looks like a mighty fine game.
  
  Is it a good FPS:
  Best online FPS I played up to date, you'll just have to see it for yourself to believe it, its 
 worth the money and if you see this game laying around somewhere, just buy it, you won't regret 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaming_man
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Well what to say if you ever wanted to play a realistic war simulator this is it. This game will 
 take away hours of your life and before you know it you'll be joining the Navy. New to FPS's? this 
 may be a bit complex for a first FPS game. If your a newbie to FPS's look elsewhere.
  
  Graphics: Great look smooth but some things can look a bit blocky and gray.
  
  Sounds: Great 
 explosions make sure you dont get shell shock. Gameplay: Loads of interactivity with realistic 
 enviorments. But at times you do find yourself running around endlessley looking for a single enemy.
 
  
  Overall impression: A game that feels like real warfare which involves a bit of strategy and tactics 
 a triumph for online games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torak101
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 1, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  BF2 is one of the few shooters I really enjoy playing. I belong to community group and everything 
 lol. I've had the game pretty much since launch and play it on and off usually for short stretches 
 between other games with a occassional burst of weeks at play. It does have its downsides but I 
 will get to that.
  
  Gameplay - This game runs like silk on both of my PC's in multiplayer. It had some issues early 
 on but they got it patched up. The maps are large and challenging. The equipment is well done and 
 I really don't have much to complain about within the context of the game itself. What turns me 
 off after a few days is its total disconnect with any sort of realism in terms of tactics. Although 
 there are squads and such, there really isn't much need for cooperation. Tactics generally are 
 centered squarely on everyone converging on a flag point (as in all shooters) The gameplay itself 
 is far to fast paced to really employ any sort of logical squad tactics in anycase. The crowd that 
 plays on the public servers leave much to be desired and I strongly recomend getting into a mature 
 community and play with some skilled players.
  Someone needs to make a game that looks like this but plays more like a tactic sim.
  One other 
 thing I don't like to much is that each side is pretty much identicle. This also takes away from 
 any use of more difficult or challenging tactics. Each army is basically the same but with different 
 skins. Weapon and vehicle performance is pretty much ignored in favor of gameplay.
  
  Graphics - Love them. No issues in this department. Detail is fantastic. I like the fact that birds 
 will ofter fly off when someone is sneaking to close by to them. The vehicle and equipment models 
 are excellent. The environments are detailed, lush and believable. Sound - I was less impressed 
 with the sound. You could have taken the sound from any one of dozens of shooters and installed 
 them here. Granted there is only so much you do with a shooter but even the music is pretty unoriginal.
 
  
  Value - well now a days I believe the game is pretty inexpensive. One thing I don't like is their 
 attempt at micro transactions. The Armored Fury and the European add ons cost an additional 10 
 bucks each. For a few new maps, some vehicles and some new uniforms it hardly seems worth it. These 
 should be free add ons not pay to use additions. It hardly seems fair to the European players who 
 need to fork out an additional 10 bucks/Euro just to use their own army. All in all, I love BF2 
 and will probably continue to play it for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PLZKLLME0080
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 10/10
  A FPS game that can have up to 64 players per battle is awsome. you can't go wrong with that. With 
 all of the different soldier kits ranging from sniper to mechanic, the game is very balanced. throw 
 in some tanks, choppers, jets and and some cars with machine guns on top and it gets even better. 
 It plays like a standard FPS game that wont bore you for a long long time.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  The graphics in the game are very detailed. all of the weapons and vehicles are 
 nearly identicle to their real life counterparts. you WON'T be asking yourself what is that thing 
 over there, it looks like a rock but is shooting at me. 
  
  Sound 10/10
  Unlike most other FPS games, the gunshots sound real. jets zooming overhead will make you want 
 to duck and cover.
  
  Value 10/10
  When i got this, it was $50. i got over 400 hours of gameplay in on this game alone. i got my money's 
 worth. if you try this game, you too will be unable to shut it off.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt 10/10
  there is no other game in my collection that i have played more than this 
 one. this is, by far, one of my most cherished games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parrot_of_adun
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Today it can be hard to understand some of the more popular gaming fads , like World of Warcraft.
 
  Battlefield 2 is one of those games you have to play to understand.
  
  To start off, the realism of the game (when on the right settings) is remarkable, the graphics 
 alone make the battlefield come to life with blistering tracers flying overhead, contrails filling 
 the sky or the dust flying away as a chopper touches down. The sound is no disappointment either, 
 the realism of firing a weapon rarely comes this close to perfection. The direction, the type of 
 weapon and even the number of troops can be deduced simply by listening to the gunfire. These sounds 
 are also rather close to being simply true sound reproduction.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, few games are more addictive or satisfying than BF2. First off, there 
 are 3 factions (without booster packs, but that's another review) , The USMC or United States Marine 
 Corps, then the MEC or Middle Eastern Coalition, and finally the chinese PLA or Peoples Liberation 
 Army. Each faction has it's unique facets stemming largely from the variation in weaponry. Though 
 ultimately, they're similar enough so that even a novice player wont have trouble playing on an 
 unfamiliar side.
  Among the infantry, there are 7 classes: Spec-Ops, Sniper, Assault, Support, Medic, Engineer, and 
 Anti-tank, each of which has a unique role in battle. In addition, there are many vehicles to aid 
 these troops, jeeps, tanks, APCs, gunship helicopters, transport choppers, strike fighters, and 
 even interceptors, all of which require a different skill level.
  Also, there are different roles to play in battle, there are several squads players can make or 
 join, each of which have a squad leader, theres also a commander of each team who rarely acts in 
 combat, but is the single most important player in the game, as they can give orders to the squad 
 leaders, who then give those orders to squad members. They can also use artillery, deploy supply 
 drops and UAVs, or even drop a vehicle for the team.
  
  The most outstanding aspect of BF2 is it's replay value. Not only are there many maps, weapons, 
 vehicles, and alot of people to play online with, but there is a unique and extensive rank system, 
 reflecting actual ranks in the military. Also, after a player reaches the rank of Lance corporal 
 they can unlock new weapons with each promotion. The unlocks are a very nice aspect to this game, 
 as each class has several unlockable weapons. There are even medals, badges and ribbons you can 
 earn through your exploits.
  
  Battlefield 2 is the kind of game you can pick up and play (thanks to a good tutorial system) , 
 and enjoy for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesgj
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 30, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 has got to be one of the best online games out there. And to me it's the best online 
 FPS to be released. With cutting edge graphics awsome gameplay and online play BF2 is a must have 
 for any PC gamer. Gameplay - Controls are decent in this game making it smooth to move your charactor, 
 select weapons and pilot aircraft. With huge detailed maps and up to 64 players gives BF2 a game 
 un-like any other in it's class. Well ballanced Multi-player adds most of the life to this game. 
 Either your a sniper or in a tank this game gives the fun it should. Graphics - Graphics in BF2 
 are very detailed. Much testures, shading and AA features makes BF2 one of the best looking games 
 on the market, Overall stunning graphics gives BF2 a easy 9. Sound - Tracks are decent. But sound 
 effects are great and make the game more interesting overall I'll give it a 8 in sound. Overall 
 BF2 is one of those games every PC gamer should have. With awsome online gaming and intense action 
 gives the game alot of life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dithindious
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  The majority of this review concentrates on the on-line game as the offline modes hardly seem worth 
 the money. However on-line Battlefield 2 offers a superior modern warfare simulation to almost 
 all of its competition to date. Its advanced stats tracking and ranking system puts pressure on 
 you to beat your friends to those unlocks and use them to your advantage. Teamwork is an absolute 
 necessary and while communication between players may on some servers be less than required to 
 work efficiently common tactics make it easy for players to know there role. These common tactics 
 can also make it easy to mix up the game-play by changing classes or sending different numbers 
 to different key areas under attack or in the enemies hand. The heavy US view of the game with 
 the typical middle Eastern threat can be an off-put but the complete lack of detail in the story 
 and emphasis on multi-player game-play makes this almost irrelevant. Although the graphics did 
 look nice at the point of release although frame rate slowdown and demand for high spec computers 
 to run shown off the lack of versatility of the game engine. The remedy? Spend far more money on 
 better hardware. These issues are not as much a problem now as even relatively old hardware now 
 should be able to run the game at a decent resolution. A common issue suffered by many on-line 
 games is lag however thing the battlefield engine does very well, which it should as this was what 
 it was designed for, is to allow up to 64 players to play with little slowdown or lag experienced 
 by the majority of users. The server search makes it easy to find servers matching your desired 
 map and player limits. An ability to player search would have been a nice addition here. Its always 
 easy to find a Strike at Karkand or Wake Island match but finding that 24 hour infantry only server 
 running strike at Karkand that you desire can lead to and add to your favourite servers and only 
 ever joining one server, not a good thing at peak times when the server is almost always full. 
 Even with the release of the supposedly superior Battlefield 2142 I would still advise Battlefield 
 2 to any possible buyers as futuristic warfare does not hold up to todays weapons used in todays 
 world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaranN
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Awesome game. Great communication and control options. The checks and balances in the game are 
 surprising: tanks take out vehicles, vehicles take out infantry, which can take out vehicles and 
 tanks and also planes and helicopters, which can be taken out by planes and take out tanks, vehicles, 
 and infantry. It's surprisingly how a game can turn out just by someone being in a place at a certain 
 time. The classes of infantry also play a great role. A sniper or a spec ops guy or an anti-tank 
 guy appearing at a certain time can turn the tide of battle in an instant. Absolutely amazing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobg8857
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  WOW this got to be one of the best 1st person shooters that i ever played. When you play this game 
 online it a hole different ball game. Some of the people i play with just cant get ehought. If 
 you are on good server you dont got to worry about the noobs that much. Online they dont put up 
 with noobs at all. The cool thing about this game is you can be diferent classes like medic is 
 one of my favs. The rank system on here rocks. You can win medals and bages. Show other people 
 that you are not a noob and you got skills. This must buy game. Keep in mind you got to have a 
 good pc to play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaca_42
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2007 2:48 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is an impressive game it has great graphics and a great gameplay the sound thou isnt 
 that great but its not a big deal.
  the game is focust on multiplayer so dont expect something ``awsome&acute;&acute; from the singleplayer 
 the bots are prety much the same old dumb npcs running arround with a gun shooting everywhere and 
 missing every shot.
  now going back to the multiplayer, has i said the game has a great multiplayer it supports 62 players 
 but if you dont have a good internet you can hardely play this game online, and sometimes the multiplayer 
 gets very fustrating because you die in the most weird ways ever but besides that its en exelent 
 game.
  i recomend this game to anyone out there that likes intense battles and huge multiplayer matches. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tedinator
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield is an absolutely revolutionary project that takes the definition of online gaming to 
 its' absolute best seen to date. The gameplay is fantastic and intense (especially when the battles 
 reach 32 v 32) . The vehicles and weapons are easy to understand and very effective in battle rather 
 than too powerful or too weak and don't make it awkward to play as infantry. The unit classes and 
 ranking system make the ability to define yourself and your skills on the field anything but difficult. 
 Best of all however, would be the very well developed maps. Although the maps are asymmetrical, 
 that only adds to the feel of being on a battlefield where you could be gunned down at any moment 
 by anyone. However, Battlefield does fall short in some categories. Such as, Ive heard numerous 
 reports of technical issues and a lack of support from the company. Ive had my share of problems, 
 but nothing I couldnt fix. Worst however, (and this has nothing to do with the game) is it's community 
 of users. I have had multiple confrontations with other players where their enjoyment is directly 
 proportionate to my lack of enjoyment. I've had players literally target me out when I had just 
 started playing hunt me down specifically, and gun me down over and over then send me threatening 
 messages just because they didn't feel I was good enough to be there. Last time I checked, they 
 didn't own the game, and didn't have the right to do that. Also, last I'd heard, there were moderators 
 for this sort of thing, although mostly all they do when you do see them is kick out of the game 
 for outscoring them. Almost every player goes through this experience, and it's almost expected 
 when you first start out, but if you ask me, that still doesn't make it alright. Anyway, if you 
 like massive online games with plenty of action and excitement and are willing to either take some 
 abuse or learn how to use the mute button (as I did) then you'll definitely like Battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sm4rtiez
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 21, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  The only thing I don't like is that there is no campaign when you first download it and you can 
 only play on individual maps with no settings. I have yet to play online, but I am guessing it 
 will be a mind-blowing experience! After playing the game on the PS2, I was on the verge of tears 
 since I had been expecting way more. It was intense, but wasn't really fun or addicting and I thought 
 that maybe EA had gone soft and destroyed the series. However, as soon as I started playing the 
 game on the PC, I was praising EA and its brilliant game designers! I still think it was a stupid 
 idea to put the game out for PS2, but the PC version makes up for that mistake completely and once 
 over! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrcyclone
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 21, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  I used to play Battlefield 1942 every so often when it first came out in like 2002 or 2003. Then 
 when Trauma Studios came out with the free mod named Desert Combat , I was instantly hooked on 
 this game (Like Pookie in New Jack City [sobbing] I tried to kick... but that sh*t just be callin' 
 me man, it be callin' me, man... I just got to go to it!) Now, after about five years and two destroyed 
 marriages later, I am now a full blown BATTLEFIELD 2 Junkie. I have even gotten a few of my buddies 
 strung out on this extremley addictive game! That was until EA released it's bunk crap of a game: 
 BATTLEFIELD 2142 , I kicked the addiction with ease. Leave it to EA to screw up the whole BATTLEFIELD 
 SERIES with games like 2142 ! Hey EA , Thanks alot for f***ing up a great thing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade_Monkey
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 20, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  If there is one thing I must thank my friend Mike for it is showing me the trailer for this then 
 upcoming game called Battlefield 2 back in June of 2005. I was instantly amazed and knew that I 
 had to buy this game when it came out. Battlefield 2 has since gone on to give me many hours of 
 enjoyment and fun. Every session of Battlefeld 2 can offer an experience that's different enough 
 from the last that it stays pretty fresh.
  
  There's a good amount of options for audio and video to make the game look as high-end or low-end 
 as you need. The only things I would of liked to see that were absent are descriptions for the 
 video options, and support for higher resolutions than 1280*1024. One thing that hasn't been fixed 
 with the many patches is the laggy menu screens online. I have gone through 2 system upgrades since 
 2005 and this problem has stayed. Gameplay wise Battlefield 2 hits it out of the park. There are 
 many classes to choose from and many ways to earn points and help your team. The damage system 
 is pretty good except for the sniper class. You can be using an M95 and nail a guy in the chest, 
 and he will still have some healh left. It would have also been nice to see wounds matter such 
 as if you get hit in the leg you move slower, and so on like in SWAT 4. It would of also been nice 
 to have a lean function. Those gripes aside Battlefield 2 is still very fun to play and holds some 
 great firefights. The commander option is a great add and is easy to pick up with maybe a half 
 hour of practice. It gives you great power to ish out. The squad play is great to with the ability 
 to spawn on your squad leader. There is more team work in Battlefield 2 than in most other online 
 games I have played.
  
  Graphicaly Battlefield 2 is very close to perfect and quite amazing. The gun models are top notch 
 as is the buildings. What really takes the cake is the roads. It may seem trivial, but Battlefield 
 2 has the best road detail in any game I have played. The explosions are not that great, and the 
 vehicle models could be a bit better, but these are minor things. I would of also liked to see 
 more blood, as there isn't much in the game if any, and also the ability to dismember other players. 
 Battlefield 2 holds up well to other games were out before it. The only real competition is Doom 
 3 and Half-Life 2. The sound is overall really good. The M4 sound is amongst the best I have heard 
 in games. The downside is that damn voiceover that I can't seem to turn off that tells you the 
 same info even if you have been playing for two years and know all of the rules. The sound of grenade 
 explosions is also weak, but vehicle explosions are fairly well done. There is lots to keep you 
 playing Battlefield 2. There are many ranks to ascend to, and many awards to win. There is a healthy 
 number of weapon unlocks to get, and there's always the drive to have better stats than friends. 
 The one thing that would of been nice is better bot AI for single player. There is no campaign 
 mode, just skirmishes, which isn't such a bad thing, but add in horribly stupid AI even at the 
 hardest difficulty and it makes the single player function next to uselesss. To sum it up: Battlefield 
 2 is awesome and quite simply one of the best games I have played. If not for some nagging things 
 it would be much better than it already is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jac494
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing follow up to the Battlefield series which suffered in Battlefield Vietnam. Battlefield 
 2 is fantastic in many ways. It adds an over all commander who is in charge of artillery, as well 
 as a squad element that is absolutely amazing. Members of a squad can spawn on the squad leader 
 instead of back at a spawn point making it easier to keep units working together. Its an amazing 
 game with amazing game play. I highly recommend this game, and I dont think you will be disappointed 
 at all. Its bar far the best desert combat game out for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spar_tan
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 16, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Yet another amazing release from EA games. This game is the sequel of Battlefield 1942 and Battlefield 
 Vietnam. This game now brings you to the modern battlefield as you can choose which country you 
 want to fight for, the USMC, Middle East Coalition or China.
  
  Now you're on the battlefield of modern warfare, you got to have the weapons that are up to date. 
 Cant use 1928 Thompson submachine gun no more! LOL. (ok, that was a bad joke)
  
  You now get to use famous weapons like AKs, M16s, best rated sniper rifle in world. You also can 
 use defibrillator to revive teammates, or kill camping snipers. That is if you're a medic. Spec 
 Ops gives you 5 C4 explosives, which basically you can stick it everywhere...... except on people. 
 Requires detonation by remote. Controls, gameplay, sounds are fantastic. For gameplay, you need 
 a good comp and good internet connection.
  
  For more, you gotta play the game!
  Adios for now :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samiup
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  If a game shold deserve to be rated as the best overall game of all times (till now) , i think it 
 shold be battlefield 2 without any competition.
  
  the good: - perfect real world combat simulation.
  - amazing graphics.
  - pefect real world 
 sound.
  - endless game deviation possibilities in multiplayer mode.
  - very stable gameplay, once it runs on your computer, it will keep running.
  
  the bad:
 
  
  - needs a super duper computer.
  - with less than 2GB of RAM, you'll here the rrrrrrr... rrr on the harde drive.
  
  the ugly:
 
  
  - i've had hard time to run it on a 16:9 widescreen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a game that you just get hooked and goe nuts. all though there are limited maps 
 and kits, the possibilities of gameplay are endless. the game
  features 7 kits. Sniper, Special Forces, Assualt, Support, Medic, Engineer and Anti-Tank. it contains 
 three factions. Middle East Coalition, USMC and Chinese Peoples army. some the weapons featured 
 are, M16, M4, MP5, AK47, Many Various Pistals. based on real-time combat fields the game takes 
 you to the edge of battle and doesnt let go, and looking at the gamespot rating you can see others 
 like it to. so if you like shooters and realism, go play it and become a Battlefield-crack-monkey. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sub-Zero_SUCKS
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 3, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  This is probobaly the best game of 2005, and, in my opinion, better than WOW. please don't hurt 
 me wow fans. i'll be good. anyways, loads of vehicle including simple humvees, to ultra fast, yet 
 surprisingly easy to get addicted to air vehicles. I love this game, and I have been playing it 
 forever! Once you get a little tired of the regular game (which is near impossible) you can get 
 some of BF2's EXCELLENT mods, combining all the strengths of BF2 with some user created changes. 
 A MUST BUY. But remember, you have to have a GREAT computer with good graphics, high speed internet, 
 the works. Check at Best Buy or somewhere if you can run it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BartSimpson01
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is all about multiplayer you play and get alot of kills you get alot of pointsyou get 
 poits for taking flags to. There are tones of weapons including a 50. cal sniper rifle a medic with 
 a defibrillator mines rocket launchers missles and lots lots more. and there are vans, helicopters 
 transport and attack, fighter jets, tanks, jeeps with 50. cal machine gun. the graphics are pretty good. sound 
 is good, and the best way to get points is to be commander they can call uav's, artillery, and the 
 commander can see everything from a birds eye view. but the person with the highest rank is the 
 commander if he applys for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo2sfcmike
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  WOW.... me and two of my friends bought this game at the same time 4 months after it first came 
 out and that was about two and a half years ago! and guess what!? we are still playing the S*$T 
 out of it:) wow this game is a MASTERPIECE!!!!!!!! ONCE AGAIN EA GAMES ARE SIMPLY THE BEST!!!!!!!!! 
 first of all the system req. arent really all that high i mean comeon let me show ya! ive fallen 
 behind on system upgrades and i promise this summer im gonna rehall my system:) im playing this 
 game with/ CPU=AMD Athlon 2.0GHz (WHICH IS THE BEST!!!!!!! INTEL.............. JUST GIVE IT UP AMD 
 IS THE POWERHOUSE OF PROCESSING:) !) and a MSI Nvidia GeForce 5200FX 128Mb with isnt supposed to 
 be supported but it plays this game on medium just PERFECTLY 1Gb Kingston Value RAM:) and this 
 game runs PERFECT!!!!!!!! and if you have at least 1Gb of RAM it'll load pretty quick:) once you 
 start playing its like crack for cokeheads you just simply cant get enough:) I LOVE Strike At Karkan 
 and I LOVE THE RANK AND POINT SYSTEM iam currently a Gunnery Seg. and I LOVE THE UNLOCKS AND I 
 LOVE the Infantry only rounds and I LOVE THE GAME!!!!!!!!!!! THANK YOU EA GAMES:) and please if 
 your hating against this game then you probely suck at FPS Multipl. games that req. build up of 
 REAL skills and you like to play wack and cheesy FPS like (Counter Strike) and also youve probely 
 NEVER played it:) so yes PLAY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  sk8erboi
  mike&amp; ike 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monco59
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 3, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Ever since Battlefield 1942 burst onto the scene in 2002, fans have eagerly been waiting for a 
 true sequel. For better or worse, Battlefield 2 is it. Set in modern times, Battlefield 2 pits 
 three factions (USA, China and the Middle Eastern Coalition) against each other, all vying for 
 global supremacy.
  
  From a gameplay perspective, Battlefield 2 follows the tried-and-true formula established by 1942. 
 Each map is divided into various control locations, as pointed out by a flagpole. Players choose 
 a side and enter the battlefield, using either air, sea or land based systems. Acquiring these 
 control locations depletes the enemys points until either side reaches zero and the game is called. 
 Pretty standard fare for anyone whos ever tried their hand at previous Battlefields. Luckily, 
 DICE has tweaked the gameplay somewhat. Needless to say, the biggest difference is the setting 
 and various vehicles under your command. The skies are filled with jet fighters and helicopters, 
 roaming the seas are aircraft carriers and landing crafts (unfortunately, DICE has gotten rid of 
 submarines, destroyers and frigates, thus disabling all maritime warfare) and naturally soldiers, 
 tanks and whatnot scurry across the maps in a desperate attempt to grab as much land as possible. 
 Unfortunately, this transition also means the game has lost its trademark comic book feel, which 
 was a nice touch in the original.
  
  Among the additions are a few excellent features. To promote more team based gameplay, DICE incorporated 
 squads to BF2. Players can create squads ranging from 1 to 6 members. Leading each squad is a squad 
 leader, who has the ability to give orders and appoint objectives to his underlings. Each squad 
 has a dedicated VoIP channel, meaning all members can coordinate their movements with one another, 
 with the squad leader being the only one able to talk directly to the commander, as well as ask 
 for various reinforcements, air drops and orders via a point-and-click system. Speaking of commanders, 
 it is an exclusive role awarded to one player from each side, with the highest ranked players having 
 first dibs. Luckily, if a commander turns out to be a total failure as a tactician, other players 
 can vote to have him kicked from his position. Commanders play the game like any other grunt, in 
 that they choose a kit, fight, die and spawn just like everyone else. The difference is, they coordinate 
 with all the squad leaders, giving them objectives, orders and supplying them with artillery barrages, 
 satellite scans, UAV reconnaissance, as well as supply and vehicle drops. Also making a welcome 
 appearance is the global ranking system and unlockable weapons and awards. Global ranking tracks 
 all your statistics in the game (kills, weapon usage, and other achievements) and awards or deducts 
 (for killing or hurting teammates) points according to performance. Once a player has amassed enough 
 points, he/she advances in rank (ranks are based on the USMC military ranks, ranging from Private 
 to General) . The advantage in this system is of course that higher ranked gamers have precedence 
 for the commander position, as well as the ability to unlock new weapons each time you advance 
 in rank. Players are also awarded ribbons and medals for their various actions, yet these are largely 
 just for show.
  
  Graphically Battlefield 2 would earn a 10, if it werent for the numerous stability and graphical 
 issues. The game has an incredible amount of detail, all the way from the outfits of soldiers to 
 the little nuances of an M1A2 Abrams tank. Draw distance is also commendable, and with a rig powerful 
 enough, the game runs relatively smoothly. Unfortunately, this is where the smoothness ends. The 
 game was shipped in such a buggy and glitch ridden state, that most of the time it becomes unplayable. 
 Ive had numerous play sessions in which the game crashed at least five times in as many minutes. 
 I guess both EA and DICE are to blame, but releasing a game in this state is absolutely unforgivable. 
 Luckily, the game has a slew of patches out, but this hardly makes up for the damage done on release. 
 The game also features one of the weirdest rag doll systems Ive ever seen. Instead of crumbling 
 to the ground like an actual dying person, players wildly flail their arms and legs, whilst bouncing 
 around the countryside.
  
  Run-of-the-mill. That would describe BF2s sound world pretty accurately. Weapon and vehicle sounds 
 are ok, but lack the proper punch expected from war games. Add to this the rather monotonous voiceovers 
 and youve got yourself an average game from a pure aural point-of-view. The only saving grace 
 is the music, which is inspired and fitting.
  
  Was Battlefield 2 worth the wait? Id like to say yes, seeing as the game has a lot of potential. 
 The setting is fresh, the gameplay is spot on and the additions are all excellent, not to mention 
 the graphical fidelity. Sadly, the game wouldve needed months and months of additional play testing 
 and tweaking to actually make it playable. I blew a gasket more than once trying to get this beast 
 running. Add to that the fact that the game also suffers from some extremely poor design choices 
 (key binding being one of them) , and it would be hard for me to say BF2 was actually worth the 
 wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CM-Snaw
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 1, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Although, the unfortunate thing is to have a high powered computer to operate it, the graphics 
 and gameplay is well worth the efforts. Missions that require actual teamwork, and the use of the 
 microphone (which is heavily needed in most cases) comes in wonderful use. Great missions, and 
 excellent vehicles to choose from, this game is one of the best War related games Ive played in 
 a long time. Much of the weapons are up to date, including some that are just released as well. 
 The sounds of the game are quite amazing, putting you in the warzone, and giving you a feeling 
 of the shockwave of the tank just exploding in your face, or as a jet flies over and drops some 
 nice bombs on you. Being for such a massive game, it takes much teamwork and tactics in winning 
 games, and I believe thats what makes the game even greater. This is a must get game for any person 
 who enjoys War/Tactical Shooting related games. MUST GET! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonicBH
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 2, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Right, Battlefield 1942 was a very popular game. Capture control points, drop tickets down, kill 
 enemies with fighter planes and tanks, lather, rinse, repeat. I was not particularly fond of the 
 game from what I played of the demo way back when, but I can understand why people love it so much: 
 Vehicular combat, different classes, finding interesting ways to attack the opponent's defense... 
 and of course, the game's mod community, which thrived with many popular mods for BF1942.
  
  After a disappointing sequel (Battlefield Vietnam) , DICE decided to acquire the team to a BF1942 
 mod entitled Desert Combat and make a retail version of the same game. That's basically what Battlefield 
 2 is, which is a misnomer, as it's technically the third title in the series, but EA apparently 
 struck Battlefield Vietnam from the record book, lumping it with the BF1942 games as part of the 
 complete collection that came out a year or so back.
  
  Battlefield's plotlines aren't going to win awards, but it doesn't really need to have a plot to 
 begin with. Basically, the Middle Eastern Coalition (MEC) and the People's Liberation Army of China 
 (PLA) basically wage war with the United States Marine Corps (USMC) in present day. As opposed 
 to previous titles, which took place during a famous war, Battlefield 2 takes place during a fictitious 
 modern-day war likely inspired by current events in Iraq. Although every battle is either between 
 the USMC vs. PLA or between the USMC vs. MEC. Oh, what I would have loved to see a MEC vs. PLA 
 battle...
  
  As I mentioned, the Battlefield series as a whole was not known for having many gameplay modes 
 (It took them literally four years to finally come up with a twist in the format, in Battlefield 
 2142's Titan mode) , and Battlefield 2 is no exception. It's Conquest mode, with slight differences 
 depending on the map. Either they're Conquest Assault (One team must take all the control points 
 from the opposing force while the other team defends) and Conquest Head-on (Both teams must try 
 to take the majority of the control points on the map) . You grab control points (or Outposts as 
 Battlefield 2 calls them) and kill enemies to lower the ticket count. The team who drops the opponent's 
 tickets down to zero first or the team with the highest ticket count when time has elapsed wins. 
 That's basically it. The main problem with this is that it gets very dull very fast. Later patches 
 added a co-op mode, but this is basically the same mode as Conquest, but with computer bots, which 
 I'll get to in a second. Battlefield 2, however, has more features than its main predecessor does.
 
  
  Battlefield 1942 had five classes. Battlefield 2 jumps it to seven, adding the Support (which supplies 
 ammunition for players and wields a machine gun) and Special Forces (basically they're the guys 
 who try to sneak around and blow crucial objectives up) classes. Battlefield 2 encourages teamplay 
 more with Squads you can join and create, and a Commander that basically, well, commands everything 
 to players, such as supply drops, vehicles and the artillery strike.
  
  One of Battlefield's other draws is a plentiful number of vehicles, and there's a fair share of 
 them in Battlefield 2. Like before, there are cars, tanks, airplanes and helicopters for players 
 to drive, and thankfully they're relatively easy to drive, using the standard movement keys and 
 your mouse. It takes a little getting used to, but once you get the idea that you need to use your 
 strafe keys to move a helicopter left and right instead of your mouse, it's a smooth ride. Interestingly 
 enough, there's an option to turn off vehicles, which is nice in theory, but then you'll realize 
 how annoying it is and how long it takes to literally get from one outpost to another. But hey, 
 if you're sick of jerkoffs in helicopters camping at your base, spamming the place with rockets 
 and machine gun fire, I guess it's a nice change of pace.
  
  Battlefield 2 comes with 14 maps (as of the latest patch) , one of which is a remake of a classic 
 Battlefield 1942 map, Wake Island. All the maps (save for Wake Island 2007 ) have 16-player, 32-player 
 and 64-player versions. This is nice, but the problem is that there are many maps that become underused, 
 and you see way too many servers running either Strike at Karkand or Road to Jalalabad . However, 
 this is a staple of virtually every FPS made since Doom that had a multiplayer component. (SEE: 
 Doom 2 MAP01, 2Fort, and de_dust) .
  
  I want to stress something to anybody who wishes to test the waters in the game: Do it online. 
 Why? Because the single player in Battlefield 2 is broken in two very bad ways, which hurt this 
 game severely. One, you can only do the maps in 16-player mode, which locks you out of several 
 vehicles (including all aviation) . And two, the bots are incredibly stupid. Even if you tell them 
 to go somewhere (as a commander) or give commands while in a squad, they'll sit there like dummies. 
 Support and medics do not deploy their ammo and health bags, instead they'd rather stand there 
 and heal/supply players slowly as they get filled full of holes by the opposing force's machine 
 gun. However, some of the bots are very good crack shots, even on Veteran (the default skill level) , 
 so I got to give DICE some credit. Just don't play the single player, because of the fact that 
 computer controlled bots and human players will act so differently, you'll definitely notice. It's 
 like comparing a barbecued hamburger with all the trimmings to a cheap 99-cent hamburger at McDonald's, 
 it's that significant.
  
  There is another thing that bothers me with this game. The game asks for relatively high system 
 specs to run at a decent framerate. Even though my computer well exceeds minimum specifications, 
 I have problems where maps take 2-3 minutes to load, and times where the game will frequently pause, 
 acting as if the game had froze. Even if you have something that hits recommended specifications, 
 you'll need to have a computer that exceeds those specs to run well, and look good on top of it. 
 I had to stick with the default settings (which were Medium settings on 800x600) in order for the 
 game to not chug, and even then it still does it on occasion. It's bothersome.
  
  Battlefield 2 has one thing that, if it wasn't there, would not give much strong incentive to play 
 the same game mode and maps over and over again. And that's the ranking system. If you capture 
 points, you kill enemies as a certain class or with a vehicle, you get badges and ribbons (assuming 
 the server is ranked) and eventually rise up in ranks to unlock new weapons to play in the game. 
 Each class has one additional weapon to unlock, and usually the unlocked weapon is superior in 
 some way to the default weapon. Of course, to some people, this may not be major, but it gave me 
 reason to play the game more than 5 hours. However, increasing in rank can take a very long time 
 if you're not a very skilled player, which makes the derivativeness of the game set in quicker 
 than it would've without the ranking system. It's nice and all, but it should've been spaced out 
 a little better. Battlefield 1942 had this theme of sorts that played during the introduction video 
 and during load screens. It had this militaristic feel to it, and has basically become the familiar 
 theme of the franchise. That theme's back in spirit here, as there is new music, but there's not 
 a whole lot outside of menu music, two load screen tracks (which depend on which team you're fighting) , 
 and victory/defeat music for each team. They're definitely memorable, especially the music used 
 for the MEC, which does contain a slight hint of that famous theme. Sounds for weapons, vehicles 
 and players are aplenty, but there's not much variety in speech, so expect to hear the same 3 audio 
 clips of enemies being spotted ad nauseum. Thankfully there are differences in voice for those 
 who are squad leaders and commanders, making it easy to distinguish. Even if it's in English, Arabic 
 or Chinese, each team has good delivery on their lines, especially the USMC voices. Unlike its 
 predecessors, Battlefield 2 features voice-over-internet-protocol (VoIP) , which only works if you're 
 in a squad. It's completely optional, but it helps if you don't want to have programs like TeamSpeak 
 running in the background.
  
  Is Battlefield 2 a good multiplayer game? Yes and no. It has rankings to keep players coming back, 
 but one game mode gets tiring quickly. Since the game still has a hearty community, there are plenty 
 of players to jump in and play. It might be tough for a new player to get their footing against 
 a bunch of players with higher ranks, but once you rise up in rank, you'll eventually show them 
 that you're at least a competent player. It's a good game, but it needed more meat and less bone 
 to make it a great game.
  
  Pros: Ranking system, plentiful number of maps, vehicles and classes, Squads and Commanders.
 
  Cons: Only one game mode, single player is a joke, game requires high specifications to run decently. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 29, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  If you want a game that will give you online play and offline play with some sweet maps and some 
 cool gun, and modes Battlefield 2 is the game. Battlefield 2 gives you every thing you ever wanted 
 in a fps. In this game you can fly, drive, or run your way around. With some cool planes and some 
 cool helos and the fun tanks. Battlefield 2 lets you fly a plane and than jump out right into some 
 shooting with all the cazy guns you can unlock its all you want. In this game you can play as many 
 different units and all of them have there own unlocks and things to do. You can also be a team 
 leader and tell your men where to go and what to do, so you can over run the enamy and take over 
 there land. This game has some big maps and some hot areas to get stuck in. So keep your guns loaded 
 and shooting all the time. This game is based around team work, so if you can join a small squad 
 to fight with, you should do well out on the battlefields. Also the multiplayer is the bomb with 
 64 people running around shooting at you. You will have a blast. Thanks for reading and keep your 
 gun shooting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikerPunk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 25, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Yes, Battlefield 2 is one of the greatest games on PC in my opinion. The class types, makes you 
 an asset to the team online, and makes you want to progress as a class, and improve. As you work 
 through the online gameplay, you gain access to unlocks, and this allows you to upgrade different 
 items. However, the unlocks dont give you too much of a choice. This does not take away from the 
 game at all though. The Graphics are fantasic, the VOIP is a niec addon, allowing you to comunicate 
 with your squad, without disrupting other squads. The maps come in a good variety, if you like 
 Planes, there are large open maps for vehicles to duke it out. If you like City Maps, there are 
 lots of city style maps, and the ability to remove vehicles, can turn a city into an all our infantry 
 manslaughter. Hail those Medics in those situations. I would highly recommend this game to anyone 
 who enjoys a online FPS experience. The maps dont get old, and its a different battle everytime. 
 I still play this version, even with the new map packs, i come back to this main version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saltyidiot
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  The game is great but it only runs on nvidia geforce 6 series or higher and they are a little over 
 a 100$ like u can get a GeForce 7300 GT for like 135$ at Best Buy. don't go 2 wal-mart though there 
 cards are sometimes way outdated. but if you want this game to run awesome and have an extra 500$ 
 lying aroud go ahead and get one from the eight series. (which i doubt u will) LOLthat is all i have 
 to say about this game so pay the extra money get a good gpu and buy the game for about 20$ for 
 the normal or 40$ for the deluxe that comes with battlefield 2 special ops. (that is really cool 
 too.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funny_faru
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 17, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  This is one of the coolest games which I have played up-till now. Rifles, Machine guns, RPG`s, 
 AK 47, tanks, APC`s, Artillery strikes, team coordination and much more have made this game one 
 of a kind. Its strong points are its graphics, sound &amp; game play. The weak point which I have 
 observed so far that is it requires a good &amp; smart machine to run on &amp; a bit of freaking 
 moves by the enemy.
  But once it starts bumping its hard to stop. SO I totally recommend this game: Its worth playing. 
 Just go now &amp; buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savage252005
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game rocks, nothing to complain about its all perfect. Perfect graphics perfect game play 
 totally realistic what more could you want. This is not a game that gets boring, every time you 
 play it its different, even off line, the AI never do the same thing over and over again like they 
 do in almost all other games to date. Best bang for your buck buy far, you can do so many things 
 in this game. Fly helicopters fly jets drive tanks dune buggies, shoot all the best guns in the 
 world its just amazingly good. I love to plaster the other teams air crafts with C4 them let them 
 take off and as soon as they get in the air BLAM I press the button and the C4 goes off and everyone 
 dies lol, they have no clue were it came from. FUN FUN FUN 
 
  
  Buy the way Im savage878 online come and play so I can kill you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelsDemon2k1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  I think that Battlefield 2 is one of the best multilayer FPS out there. The graphics are great 
 and you get actual in game rankings and badges for certain things that you do in the game. for 
 example if you play 100 hours with a anti tank kit and get 40 kills in one round you will get a 
 gold medal. of course before that you have to earn the basic and silver medal first. The graphics 
 in bf2 are great. the game does have some high specs though. The sound is pretty good. I have 5.1 
 surround sound speakers for my pc and its really great because I can hear everything that is happening 
 around me. here are my pros and cons for bf2
  PROS
  Great graphics
  Unlockable weapons
  rankings
  1 expansion and 2 booster packs
  up to 64 players in one map
  planes are fun to 
 fly
  CONS
  you need a pretty good computer to run it on high
  servers crash about twice a day
  many many many hackers/glitchers
  often rockets fly through 
 vehicles. In overall I would give Bf2 9/10 for the great game that I've been playing for +500 hours 
 and I'm still addicted to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ralphh
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  Hello Gamers!
  This game is a must buy! The single player mode is good but its a shame they have only made it 
 a max of 16 players! Its advisable to play single player and get used to the controls, playing 
 diffrent kits and teams.
  Kits are: Teams (countries)
  Sniper MEC
  Special Ops USA
  Anti-Tank China
  Assualt
  Enginner
  Medic
  
  You will fight fierce battles in the game 
 and it gets quite addictive when you move on the the fantastic multiplayer! Multiplayer you can 
 play on ranked servers which means you will go up army ranks when you play! You can see the information 
 on the BFHQ! I advise when you win an award in one round to play another one incase because i have 
 lost a few by just quiting the round to check it out! Overal this is a musy buy game for people 
 who like to play online!
  
  You should also check out BF2 site www. battlefield2. com
  It contains alot of information on it aswel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fyrephlie
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I won't bore you with a long and rambling review of this game. This is a an amazing piece of code 
 that you can't not enjoy. Yes, I just used a double negative. There's not a lot that hasn't been 
 said about this movie. It's astounding on many levels, but mostly what's great about it is the 
 fact that they've found nearly the perfect multiplayer formula for the series. With that said, 
 do yourself a favor, and fire it up and go a few rounds and see if you can't get hooked. If that 
 fails, feel free to try its older brother, BF2142, because Battlefield in the future is pretty 
 good too, though it doesn't exactly break much in the way of new ground, it's great for those that 
 want to move into a new era of war making. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorched1992
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  I bought Battlefield 1942 and Battlefield Vietnam a little after BF2 came out I would have bought 
 BF2 but my computer wouldn't run it. I started hearing about it more after BF2 came out, so I tried 
 it out. I thought it was a great game. I liked the games so much I bought I bought an ATI Radeon 
 X700 pro and 512MB of RAM. That ended up costing me about $300, but when I played BF2 it was worth 
 it. The game looked great. I played the game online for awhile got use to the game and then had 
 a lot of fun. There are tons of awesome moments on this game. Ex. - I was driving a RIB to attack 
 an enemy base from an aircraft carrier. I see an enemy fighter in the distance. I ignored it thinking 
 it'll pass me. I was wrong. It launched 4 missiles at me missing me by inches and then passes over. 
 I look back and it looks lie its going away but then it starts turning. I'm not even halfway to 
 land yet. It begins launching missiles at me again as I swerve all around barely dogging the missiles. 
 Then an APC starts shooting at me from shore. The helicopter makes about 3 more passes and then 
 finally takes time to line up its shot and hits me when I'm about 30 yards from shore
  These are the moments that make BF2 so great
  
  The game is strongest in multiplayer. In multiplayer 
 you can form squads. There can be a max of 9 squads. Each squad has squad leader. The squad leaders 
 give the squad members orders and the commander gives the squad leaders orders. The commander can 
 launch artillery strikes, UAVs, scans, and send supplies. They can also give squad leaders orders. 
 Squad leaders give squad members orders. Sometimes squads won't follow orders and everybody will 
 be spread out and its not as fun. It is important to find a serer with people who cooperate well.
 
  
  The single player AI isn't very good, but its better than the older Battlefield's. If you can play 
 multiplayer fine without much lagging I wouldn't even bother with the single player.
  
  There are awards, weapons, and ranks you can earn in BF2 are cool. They makes you really want to 
 work hard.
  
  Battlefield 2 is a great game and is a game that anybody would love.
  If you have the right computer and the money What are you waiting for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drofgameanomics
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 3, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is one of best game in he FPS series that i've ever played. The gameplay is totally 
 superbly done. The part of commander, squad leaders, the artillery, UAV and all. It really adds 
 up the fun and excitement for the FPS series. I seriously love the part of artillery and the job 
 of commander. It is totally cool. The single player too could improve more abit by putting more 
 wider options for us to choose for like the spawn time, auto balance and all. EA could also have 
 added a campaign too. It could be totally fun. Overall, Battlefield 2 delivers an action packed, 
 hard-hitting, full of explosive, fast paced present military war. It's a game certainly worth getting! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhen_Var
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  So WW2 are so old so EA whent modern and it ROCKED! Tired of those old planes same old wooden guns 
 that fire as fast as a pistol? Then this game is for you!
  Gameplay
  Awsome man just Awsome!7 classes plenty of vechiles and hundreds of options and possibilities! 
 with up to 64 players WAR is awsome and its not that random war it has order! and its better to 
 see a clean room then some dirty dog pile. so EA added this feature called squads with up to 1 leader 
 and 5 members and theres a commander mode now who can send down a Car, supplies, UAVs and Artillary 
 Strikes! but its kinda boring and you command squads however you can still fight like the rest 
 commander or not there is a place for everyone! You've never felt the battlefield so alive! Voice 
 chat feels like radio or walky talky on the battlefield! Communication is key! Master this and 
 you rule the battlefield! there 7 classes awsome ideals like spec ops with the Powerful C4 and 7 
 unlocks 21 ranks thats right you can have a rank and gain experience! So what is bad? Awfully glitchy 
 in the browser and in game but besides these errors this game rulez!
  Graphics
  Awsome looks next gen! Helps keep the life in the game!
  Sound
  Its WAR! grenades tanks jets 
 helicopters radio messsages they sound perfect!
  Value
  its all the worth you want! even if you need a graphics card so strong its worth with almost unlimited 
 replay value!
  Overall
  Get it! if you live in Europe that is. If your Asian you'll have one heck of a hard time looking 
 for a server with little lag. BF2. BF2 Owns. That is all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorre_1978
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, I must admit I play it more single player with the bots than I do online, runs 
 amazing on my x1800gto card, hardware EAX is very good, is a major improvement over bf1942 which 
 had many problems.
  Nice levels with hundreds more online to download, online gameplay is real smooth with my cable 
 connection.
  Graphics all nice but not the best, loading times are'nt to bad, 2.0gig of ram would be the way 
 to go but it works just fine on my system with only 1.0 gig of ram.
  Even in single player with the bots the game is changeling but not to hard to play. Learning the 
 controls etc takes about an hour and then your an expert in that area.
  Highly recommened game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheJedi165
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 24, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for a great, masive modern combat game, this is what you are looking for. The 
 animation is insane and the gameplay is great. With tickets and bots set to max, you are in for 
 a huge, long and insanely fun game. Other little things that make the game amazing is the ability 
 to have a squad, fly or drive all maner of vehicle and the ability to sprint. That was allways 
 somthing that was missing from the earlier Battlefield games. The classes of soldiers has also 
 added a very good veriety to the game, making it hard to get boring. If being a medic has goten 
 old, become a spec ops or a sniper. The AI is not to smart but they do have the sence to run out 
 of the way of a moving car. (I love running down enamies in a fast car. It just makes you fell 
 good watching some dumb punk fly.) And the rag doll animation is amazing, but the AI throws grenades 
 way to much. The only downside is the unrealistick armor of the tanks and other armored vehicles. 
 A few rockets take down a heavy tank where as in real life, you would need to pump about two or 
 three times as many rockets into the thing in order to get it to explode. All in all, this is a 
 great game. Worth the buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insertnailhere
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain awsome! There is always somthing fun to do when you get bored. The gameplay 
 is great because there are so many interactions that you can use. The graphics are good when you 
 have them on high and you don't lag, but they could have been better [EX. legs going through the 
 wall when proning] . the sound is also great because the differnt tone of voices are based on what 
 you are saying and what team you are on [ china, usmc, or mec,] . I totaly recommand getting this 
 game, once you start playing it YOU CAN'T STOP! But don't play forever.... I know it's hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmb34
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 23, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  This game to me defines what a fps online is supposed to be. I played 1942 and it just didnt quite 
 get my interests. i have been playing this game since the day it launched and never racked up so 
 many hours in any other game as I have this one. To be exact &gt; total hours played = 385! I have 
 seen stats on people who have logged thousands of hrs! That is insane! I think what got me hooked 
 was the modern day weapons and vehicles, i was getting bored with the wwII era. The game really 
 excells if you can find a group of guys that will work together as a squad. To many players online 
 like to go lonewolf and do their own thing , they generally get owned hard by a squad that works 
 together. All in all this is the best game for the money if you like fps, I definately have gotten 
 my value out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  GENERAL
  Battlefield series to my knowledge is based on the conquest mode (as it is most popular) and it 
 usually requires a lot of teamwork. It allows u to pick a class of ur taste and then fight it out 
 against another team on huge battlefields with a large variety of vechiles. Single player doesnt 
 count into gameplay (cause it is crap) and this game should be seen as something like CS, a multiplayer 
 only game. This review just compares what each game has and a short personal comment: P
  
  GRAPHICS
  BF2142 is superior but not by that much. The system requirements r about the same . 
 BF2142 is a bit more stressing to look at but that gives it the war torn feel of real war and how 
 stressing war is. BF2 is basically the same but some maps (e. g wake island) seem sunny and looks 
 like quiet a nice place to relax and have a picnic. But overall still a fun place to fight in both 
 BF2 and BF2142 but BF2142 with its enhanced graphics and better war torn (bit futuristic yet brutal) 
 maps wins. (BF2142 wns)
  
  GAMEPLAY
  For this i have dividied it into sub categorys.
  
  Concept- both concepts r basically the same but BF2142 provides better team play and encourages 
 joining squads because u can get field upgrades and the ability to get double points. Also BF2142 
 has the bonus Titain which is really fun as u fight on board the corridors of the aircraft carrier 
 in space thing. (BF2142 wins)
  
  Weapons- both game's weapons fit the era it is set in and there isn't much to comment on but BF2142 
 the aiming is much easier but still realistic. The BF2142 weapons r said to just be futuristic 
 versions of todays versions that makes perfect sense. Lasers and beams (imagine Star Wars and Star 
 Trek) would not be good in the game. Sticking with powerful brutal bullets gives the feeling of 
 how brutal war is as the effects r great. Good choice EA for sticking with good old bullets. Overall 
 the BF2142 weapons r things u have never seen and i personally think they r all cool but it is 
 up to personal likes. (Draw)
  
  Vechiles-while it is true BF2142 vechiles aren't very creative as most ideas have been used already. 
 But most vechiles r easier to pilot and manuveuor (how the hell do u spell that) but still hard 
 enough to give u the feeling that this really is a vechile. I personally think the vechiles look 
 better as they seem more armored (e. g think of go kart like buggys in BF2 to small half armored 
 cars in BF2142) and a lot more stylish. It is also cool how PAC tank hovers cause they can manuvour 
 in ways impossible for catepillar tracks. Again depends on personal likes and dislikes. (Draw)
 
  
  Classes- This is where a lot of the bad points for BF2 r realised. With 7 classes all very specific 
 u need a much bigger team which may prove extremly laggy for lower powered machines. In BF2142 
 there r four classes most having twp seperate unlock routes to choose from. This means a recon 
 can both be sniper and special ops depending on their unlocks which allows players to be more adaptable 
 therefore providing funner game play as the classes r a little more independent but still better 
 to work in squads. In BF2 for example if u were a medic it was hard to kill other classes head on 
 and u often had to get points from healing and reviving rather than killing. In BF2142 u can do 
 both but depending on the unlocks u choose u will be stronger in either the killing part or healing 
 part so ultimatly in BF2142 the classes r just basic classes which can be expanded. With the more 
 adaptable classes of BF2142 it provides a funner experince as the player can do more stuff rather 
 than relying on members to do some stuff for them. (BF2142 wins)
  
  Maps-All the maps for both games r great but I have experienced a lot of screw ups in BF2. Sometimes 
 u will be pushed back to two or one spawning points where u will make one last stand. Sounds good. 
 But then u realise all the enemy r doing is bombarding u with endless grenades making it impossible 
 to do anything but respawn over and over and over and over and over and over again . In BF2142 
 u will end up defending like mad sometimes but u won't be endlessly bombarded as there is a lot 
 of blind spots and cover near the spawning points and endless grenading isn't much of a problem 
 as there r many flanking positiong as well and squad beacons r great. Also intense fire fights 
 r also great fun and last for a while. Many of the fire fights will only include one or two explosives 
 and they will be from the Anti-vechile classes and not just every class throwing 5 grenades each. 
 Also at times u may feel like it is trench warfare where no one seems to be winning but that can 
 usually be solved by one brave squad doing something crazy and capturing a great vantage point 
 in no mans land (something along those lines) (BF2142 wins)
  
  Other- the unlock system is a great way to reward players and give them a goal. In BF2 it just 
 doesn't work as there just arent enough unlocks to make an impact on gameplay. In BF2142 there 
 r tons and it isn't just guns! FOR EXAMPLE imagine five people named 1,2,3,4,5 all playing as the 
 same class. Oh look 1 has a shotgun attachment. 2 has grenades. 3 has a Light assault rifle. 4 
 has a squad beacon. 5 can run longer than others he must have a stamina thing. So there r plenty 
 of unlocks for the class u like. In BF2 u unlock one thing for one class... boooooo. (BF2142 wins)
 
  
  SOUND- both good and even in BF2142 when there r explosions from orbital bombardment or when a 
 few rockets r fired they sound great! (draw)
  
  VALUE- BF2142 wins with the unlcoks and the overall funner gameplay COMMENT- y is BF2 rated more 
 than BF2142???????? BF2142 is criticized for things that BF2 is even worse at (if that made sense) 
 for example BF2142 it says everyone is clad in the same armor. Yet in BF2 no one mentioned u had 
 to look at the colour of player's names to c if they were on ur team (no joke the MEC, USA, Chineese 
 look exactly the same) BF2142 review again and include my points!!! honesty it should be 9plus!
 
  
  OVERALL- spend the $5 extra and get BF2142. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KuLiKo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 20, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Awesome Game of the year 2006Awesome Game of the year 2006Awesome Game of the year 2006Awesome 
 Game of the year 2006Awesome Game of the year 2006Awesome Game of the year 2006Awesome Game of 
 the year 2006Awesome Game of the year 2006Awesome Game of the year 2006Awesome Game of the year 
 2006Awesome Game of the year 2006Awesome Game of the year 2006Awesome Game of the year 2006Awesome 
 Game of the year 2006Awesome Game of the year 2006Awesome Game of the year 2006Awesome Game of 
 the year 2006Awesome Game of the year 2006Awesome Game of the year 2006Awesome Game of the year 
 2006Awesome Game of the year 2006 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2048
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Wow, this is just one of those games that any dedicated gamer should have in his collection. This 
 game is absolutely revolutionary. It just offers tons after tons of hours of pure fun that will 
 blow you away. The graphics are very good for 2 year old game and are very realistic, which is 
 why this game is so addictive. I am absolutely blown away. At first I didn't particularly like 
 the idea of an online shooter, with no goal but kill as many people as possible in a set time period. 
 I was wrong. This game had a lot of deeper interest, such as producing strategies to capture different 
 spawn points, use diffrent weapons for diffrent purposes (not just killing) , etc. Overall, this 
 is one of the best games I have played in years and probably years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Finally! A good, first person online, modern times shooter. I have been waiting for one of these 
 for a really long time, now, and when I played, this game, I was hooked. There is no excuse as 
 to why you don't have this game.
  At first when I got it, I was really worried, becasue i havd to update my graphics card adn download 
 a patch that took 12 hrs&gt;_ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tidusleonart321
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  I play this one on both single player and multi player. Th Al of computer is so good. I also play 
 with my friend and i mean nothing i have to complain about this game. the sngle player mission 
 is aso impressive. It take me just 30 min to learn how to play and after that i just live in the 
 world of battle filed wiht bombing, gun and plane. the graphics is also an advantage for the game 
 like this. If you can own a good computer like me, you can enjoy the whole battle field look like. 
 i hope there is more any game like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eliteshooter
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 16, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  WOW! This game isnt unlike any FPS's i've ever played! This has to be like the best FPS ever made! 
 Wow this is just one amazing game. The felling of sniping people, Running around and finding enemies 
 then chase them around with your Rifle, Pistol, Knife or you can chuck grenades at them. Next the 
 Graphics. The graphics depends how strong your graphics card is. If you have a really strong graphics 
 card you can set the graphics or medium or high. High looks the most realistic. Medium around half 
 and half. Half cartooney half realistic. Then last comes Low. Low is acually that bad. Its good 
 enought to get at least a 7-8. Then now comes the Sound. The sound was really amazing. The way 
 the soilders communicate is unbeliveable. The Americans speak english. The MEC speak iraq i think 
 then last comes China. They speak Mandarin. This game is just surely a terrific game. This is the 
 game i recomend mast out of all my reviews. TRUST me you wont be DISAPOINTED! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Resistance_8
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 10, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 can provide you with a solid gaming experience every time you play it, but first 
 you need to cut through a boat-load of BS. Well, it's EA, so as you can imagine the game is only 
 about a quarter finished when you get it. You need to install the usual amount of patches to play 
 the game. I bought the Battlefield 2 and Batllefield 2 Special Forces pack, and I could not get 
 the multiplayer to work. So I had to manually install it, which was a big hassle. Finally, on to 
 the game itself...
  
  G a m e p l a y : Let me get one seeminly obvious thing out of the way. This game was made for 
 multiplayer and multiplayer only. Do not even let the though cross your mind to buy this game if 
 you are not interested in the multiplayer aspect. It may sound obvious, but you never know. Battlefield 
 2 is a great game once you can get right down to it. The game works the same as the other Battlefields, 
 where two teams fight over control of points (Conquest) . There are many kits available, and NONE 
 seem pointless. Too often do kits often feel pointless in other online shooters. Every single kit 
 has a very specific use. An example of this is an engineer is usually driving vehicles, since they 
 automatically repair the vehicle they are occupying. Another example would be the support kit can 
 provide extra ammunition to other players. Another very impressive addition is the commander and 
 squad aspects. Each person has the ability to join a squad, which work together inside the team 
 to complete an objective. The commander is an elected member of the team which controls the team's 
 artillery and radar etc. All of these kits and positions motivate the player to work together and 
 help others out. This working together is probably one of the major things that makes this game 
 so enjoyable online. I do have a few complaints, however. You will quickly discover your favorite 
 maps, as well as maps you cannot stand, or at least I did. There are only a few maps I enjoy. I 
 simply don't play on the ones I don't like. Another complaint I have is that sometimes in combat 
 you can empty two bursts of ammo into a guy point blank, and he will not die. This can be annoying 
 when you have the upper hand and somehow the other guy still kills you. I guess what I am trying 
 to say is that, at times, you can feel really cheated, but there is not much time to care, since 
 you will respawn very quickly anyway.
  
  Extremely enjoyable most of the time.
  
  9/10
  
  G r a p h i c s : I do not have much to say about the graphics. Some people say the 
 are becoming dated, but I see almost nothing wrong with them. The only complaint I have is some 
 of the animations look a little flimsy. Graphics are fine.
  
  9/10
  
  S o u n d : Once again the only complaint I have is that the radio chatter can get a little extreme 
 at times, to say the least. This can get quite annoying sometimes. Everything else about the sound 
 has not drawn any attention to itself.
  
  Sound is mostly good.
  
  8/10
  
  V a l u e : Again, if you are willing to install the usual amount of patches as other EA games, 
 and possibly face a few other annoyances, the game itself is for the most part very enjoyable and 
 I recommend it to anybody who enjoys online shooters.
  
  8/10
  
  O V E R A L L : Battlefield 2 is definitely worth the money. Each sitting often times turns out 
 totally different, and people are, for the most part, working together. This helps create a very 
 enjoyable experience every time you play this game.
  
  91/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 1, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  64 people great weapons and alot of really kool vehicles, sounds like fun and it is for awhile.... 
 the game just was missing something to keep me playing and i can't pin point it but it just feels 
 sooo generic. I'm not saying it's a bad game, because it's not, just lacks that special something.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  It has all the gameplay there and is great fun if you like BIG warfare with vehicles and even sometimes 
 just gun fights which can be fun. However BF games were designed for vehicles in mind so i'd prefer 
 to go play CS for just gun fights. The guns however feel very boring and unsatisfying, when you 
 fire them they don't feel like real guns or that your holding them. On CS the guns just have a 
 very meaty feel but on this game they don't. Which leads me onto my next problem..... it doesn't 
 feel like your hitting a target, theres not hitboxes aswel so that makes things worse. Feels like 
 your just shooting at mid air and you get so sense of satisfaction like you do when you kill someone 
 on CS. A lack of modes aswel really bothers me, you just get bored of the same old one all the 
 time.
  
  I felt the maps were all badly designed too, pretty generic and felt like a map generator did all 
 the work and it's not hand crated. Copy and Paste a few buildings theres etc etc....
  
  I also feel the expansions split up the community and arn't worth the money.
  
  Graphics:
 
  
  They're showing signs of beign dated and i always thought the water and the shadows looked bad 
 + so do the animations. They do feel really generic and make the combat unstaisfying. I also don't 
 have a sense i'm really running like other FPS games or that i'm in the game.
  
  Sound:
  
  Sounds are perfect and for me they're the best thing about the game. There is however a lack 
 of music which BFV did sooo well.
  
  Value:
  
  It's ok for the base pack but if you buy the expansions aswel i don't think they're worth it.
 
  
  In the end it'sa good game but it's just missing that something to keep me playing. It does feel 
 pretty generic and has quite a few problems for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KareKare87
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  With so much to do... and so little time. ranks, medals, ribbons, etc. Your gonna need alot of work... i 
 would know lol. A perfect fps in my book anyday. The pros is just the full range of things you 
 can do infantry, air, and armor. You can change your game, improve or even own the battle in your 
 own way. The only problem that I ever had with was just the connection times, it takes a while 
 to load but its worth the wait. And you dont really need a top notch graphics to play it, buts 
 it definitely impoves the realistic experience. Ya need a good connection, because it can lag if 
 others are laggy as well. But, for anything else, this game is still addicting and I will still 
 continue to play it. Its really fun and everyone needs the taste of the Battlefield, and where 
 better than Battlefield 2? lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ronlang
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 24, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most action packed game that I have played in awhile. It has such a real life 
 effect that you tend to get sucked into the game for hours. There is a down side to this game though 
 and that is the server crashes and game freezes. No matter how many time you patch the game with 
 that newest patch or update, it tends to still have the same problems. Not many people can go out 
 and buy a new computer to keep up with the game. Other then that I would recommend this game to 
 anyone whom likes real time action and an all around fun time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keith22
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 23, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  the game is high detailed with an enormouse ammount of things over 40 types vehiles a good range 
 of weapons to choose from. the game comes with beutiful maps. the game was made to be played online 
 so if you don't like the multi style you can save money and turn to another game but for those 
 who like playing online then this is a game that i suggest you. Athing that i really like is that 
 if you want to play for real there is a tracking system in the game which kepps track of your kills 
 deaths score acuuaracy time played etc.. unlike some multiplayers battlefield 2 was a ranking system 
 which at first ay seem easy to be promoted but then you come to a certain point where you have 
 to pass a lot of time play ing and by playing i mean playing well top 5 from you team . the ranking 
 gives sense for the player that is playing becuase it can show that i am a veteran not like you 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hot_Potato
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Battlefield 2 revolves around a game type called conquest. In it there are several flags 
 at strategic points throughout the map. You pick your guy's class, such as sniper or special ops, 
 then you have to take over these flags. You take them over by standing near them, and they're taken 
 faster with more team mates with you. Each team has a number of points, and these can be depleted 
 by killing enemies or controlling more flags than the enemy. If one team controls all the flags 
 and kills everyone on the enemy team, it's game over for them unless they have a permanent spawn. 
 The weapons you have depend on the class you play. The Assault will use assault rifles, while Special 
 Forces use carbines and so on. As you play on ranked matches and gain points, you can go up military 
 ranks . Once you get to about the third rank you get to unlock a weapons. Each class has one main 
 weapon and two unlock-able weapons.
  
  The game features a variety of vehicles from jeeps to tanks to jets. The ground vehicles can be 
 controlled with a mouse and keyboard with relative ease, but I salute anyone who tries to fly a 
 jet or helicopter without a joystick.
  
  The maps range from middle eastern cities to pacific islands, and depending on the map you'll play 
 as one of the five different factions, including the USMC and the fictional Middle Eastern Coalition, 
 or MEC. The maps can hold anywhere from 16 to 64 players total, although the matches tend to get 
 laggy with larger amounts of players.
  
  Graphics - Graphically, this game looks great. If you have a mid range card (by today's standards) 
 like a 7800 GT, turn down the textures and models, but crank up the resolution and Anti Aliasing 
 and the game looks incredibly sharp. I was surprised at the improvement when I went from 1024x768 
 to 1280x1050 with 4x AA on.
  
  Sound - The game sounds great when you're flying around in a jet or you're on the ground being 
 fired at and hit with grenades. It's pretty cool hearing the alarm in you're aircraft when you're 
 locked on to by an enemy, then hearing the wind rush around you as you parachute to safety. The 
 only gripe is some weapons sound like cap guns. In real life guns are loud and dangerous, and they 
 should be the same way in games. The first unlock for the Medic kit is powerful, but almost completely 
 silent, and there's no visible silencer on the weapon.
  
  Value - Basically, you could play this game forever as with most multiplayer-only games. One little 
 incentive to keep playing is the large amount of medals and ribbons you unlock for doing certain 
 things, such as healing five team mates. There's also the fun ranking system that rewards you with 
 weapon unlocks.
  
  Overall this is a great game, and although a little unstable at times, anyone who enjoys FPS games 
 and has a decent mid range computer should pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopeymaster
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  this game is revolutionary.
  It gives u so much freadom.
  there is so much actions.
  You choose what u want.
  Want to bomb people from the air? go ahead do and and get kills.
  
 want to command ur people to glory, go ahead and we the best commander.
  Want to snipe people from a LONG disctince, go ahead do it.
  This is the ultimate War game i 
 have ever played.
  THIS IS MUCH BETTER THEN BF:2142.
  if u love war, this is the game for u!
  Just do anything u want.
  The weapons, they are amazingly 
 fun to use.
  I only wish i still had this and didnt trade it for bf:2142.
  this is the best game EVER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mar_24
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 19, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I have had this game over a year and it doesnt get boring. It is really hard when you start if 
 you arent good at FPS's and it takes a bit of getting use to but still its amazing. The singleplayer 
 isnt good at all but 99.9% of the people buy it for the online.
  
  ONLINE: This game is great for online. Full ranked system, weapon unlocks and great maps. Those 
 are just some of the great things about online. Although it does come with bad things like no friends 
 list, long load times (if you have 512mb RAM like I did) . And most people are totally nerds and 
 are amazing (I am good, but not great) . But this is the best online (that is not a MMO) and if 
 you like FPS you should definitly pick this up.
  
  So this game is a total gem and a lot of people will be playing it for years to come. Wanna play 
 with me? (probably not)
  Xfire- Mar24
  BF2 Name- Mar_24 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avp2167
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 15, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  As a fan of Battlefield 1942 and Desert combat (mod for battlefield 1942) I was expecting Battlfield 
 2 TO wow me.
  
  Nope.
  
  Battlefield 2 may have lots of vehicles, but in the 2 days i was playing it, I never used a tank, 
 only jets. No one of my friends even realized there were tanks.
  
  Battlefield 2 should be called, Airfield: Jet wars Or something along the line
  
  Now Battlefield 
 2 and desert combat are alike in ways (NOT)
  
  Heres the Breakdown:
  
  Battlefield2:
  
  -Needs a good video card
  -Youll use mostly planes
  -Sweet commander mode
  -I like the 
 helicopters
  -THE USER LOGIN SUCKS!
  
  Desert Combat:
  
  -YOu need a decent card ( RAdeon 7000 is fine) and Battlefield 1942)
  -HUNDREDS OF UNITS. More 
 than BF:2
  -DC lets you use planes and you also want to use the tanks.
  -Graphics are almost equal to that of BF:2 in terms of vehicle textures.
  
  Now, Im not dissing 
 BF:2. But Desert COmbat requires sooo much less for soooooo much more!
  
  Case closed, Verdict has been decided. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Dragon75
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  this game is just truely amazing, ppl were getting mad b/c i was playing 2 much. Yes i am a sniper. 
 I sit, i get the shot, BAM. I have to say that the gravity bullet physics are pretty sweet. i love 
 scoring a headshot on a hopped super long range shot. Beyond that, this game has rocksolid gameplay, 
 incredible graphics on all highs, and even on lower ones, and amazing sound. this game will have 
 u coming back for more again and again. My friend really likes to fly the jets, i like to sick 
 back and relax through my scope. speaking of jets this game is really fun to fly around and/or 
 drive in....... To rap it up. BUY THIS NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkthewindow
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  The Battlefield series is one of the greats when it comes to PC gaming. It is so simple-fight a 
 war, battle by battle, choose your side, and own, yet so addictive. Battlefield 1942 started up 
 the titanic series, Battlefield Vietnam added a little, but was basically Battlefield 1942 in Vietnam, 
 and now we have Battlefield 2, which brings the Battlefield series to the modern age. The fear 
 I had when first picking up this game, was that it would be Battlefield 1942 in the modern age, 
 like paying $70 for a EA-endorsed version of Desert Combat, with better graphics. Thankfully, this 
 is not the case.
  
  The first thing you realize when you pick up Battlefield 2 is it's graphics. They are amazing, 
 and don't need a $10,000 computer to use. They look stunning, and, although not photo-realistic, 
 they are just good, but they do not draw you away from the game. The textures on the weapons deserve 
 special credit, they look great.
  
  The sound is also great in Battlefield 2. Although I do get the occasional static, this is probably 
 due to my sound card, and not on EA's side. The sound is realistic enough, and it adds to the gameplay, 
 Explosions, gunfire, and your typical walking all sound fine. Too bad there was no music, like 
 in Vietnam. The gameplay in Battlefield 2 is flawless. The ability to squad up is useful, but not 
 nessersary (so us lone wolfs can still own :) ) and so is the Commander, who can call down artillery, 
 and UAV scans. Thankfully, EA tweaked these just right, so artillery cannot win battles, but it 
 helps a lot.
  
  Like the previous games in the series, Battlefield 2 has a large amount of handheld weapons, from 
 the familiar M-16A2 to the classic AK-47. The handheld weapons are fantastic graphically, and they 
 are fun to use, including the knife, which makes a comeback in Battlefield 2.
  
  Tanks, airplanes and jeeps are all in Battlefield 2, just like Battlefield 1942, but boats where 
 taken out. You can still get light rubber boats, but aircraft carriers and the like where removed, 
 which is not a good thing. The tanks in Battlefield 2 are a little overpowered, but they are not 
 invincible-a anti-tank or a helicopter can take them down. The real problem is how much helicopters 
 own. A helicopter can take down a whole squad, while that squad has no defense (unless there is 
 a AA-missile car or launcher nearby.) Jets are also a blast to use.
  
  The gameplay in general is the best, surpassing Battlefield Vietnam and matching Battlefield 1942. 
 The maps are great, varied, from desert, to urban combat. Many other maps can be purchased, in 
 the form of the expansion pack, Special Forces, and the booster packs, Euro Force and Armored Fury- 
 a review for these is coming soon.
  
  The main problem is the bugginess of the game. Crashes occur often, but only during loading times. 
 Thankfully, with the 1.4 patch, there are less bugs, but I have heard that in pre-1.4 it would 
 crash more often.
  
  In conclusion, Battlefield 2 is one of the best FPS's ever, the best game in the Battlefield series 
 (although 1942 comes close) and is a great game. Just don't expect it to run on a crappy rig-but 
 it ran fine on my X1600. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v3n0m111
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 6, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Well to be completely honest i was never really into war games like this and i never payed any 
 attention to Battlefield 1942 but then my friend was browsing this game here on game spot and thought 
 it looked cool. I agreed to get it just to see what it would be like. Its actually alot funner 
 than i thought it would be, has great graphics and there are lots of people who play online and 
 plenty of guns to unlock. There are also expansion packs such as Special Forces which add things 
 like ziplines and that. Also if your up to date with the patches there are no cheaters which makes 
 the game fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Code_wizard
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 6, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  The first things I noticed about Battlefield 2 is it prone to being glitchy. After playing with 
 polished and precise control systems such as Counter-strike, Rainbow-six: Raven Shield, and Unreal 
 Tournament playing Battlefield 2 felt wonky and disorienting. Don't even think about using a gaming 
 mouse with this game. My 2000dpi razor was so sensitive it was almost unplayable at sub 1.0 mouse 
 sensitivity.
  
  While Battlefield tries to be a tactical shooter at points its really more efficient to bunny-hop 
 and dive to the ground. This is quite frustrating as you can unload clip after clip at enemies 
 only to have them effortlessly dodge your bullets and then dive to the ground and take you out 
 in one shot. Sadly the only way to beat this tactic is to do it yourself.
  
  Even with all of its downfalls it still can suck up hours and hours of your time. The classes are 
 well balanced and each one is fun to play. The unlock able weapons might as well been handicaps 
 as they add little to the game and is some cases are less effective than their default counterparts.
 
  
  The main menu GUI is one of my least favorite features. Its slow and cumbersome and crashes often. 
 The load and connection times are awful and are quite frustrating. Your not even allowed to skip 
 the intro movies without adding a command parameter.
  
  It might sound like I hate this game. The sad truth is, it's quite addicting and still very fun 
 even with its flaws. It does drain hours quickly so I only recommend it to serious gamers with 
 a lot of time their hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashleyt27
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 4, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  battlefield 2 is a brillent, if not the very best fps on the market.
  
  single player isnt much, but mutiplayer kicks more ass than a p****** off donkey. you can play 
 as either:
  -a medic
  -a anti-tank
  -a sniper
  -a assault
  -a special forces
  -an engineer
  each one has there own perks and disadvantages, but the game works so well the 
 classes just work together so well.
  
  the levels are brillent. the game is not to fast, not too slow paced either.
  
  the graphics 
 are stunning and the sound is awesome. there is so many extras in this game it is something you 
 shouldnt avoid.
  
  the disadvantage of this game is tyhat begginers have a slight disavatage compared to the hard 
 core players of this game, because they will have already got alot of the unlocks and will do quite 
 alot better than beggineers,
  
  but thats not a big problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EddieElNino
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  The battlefield series has always been that of quality and fun. This game is no departure from 
 the series. The gameplay is sipmly addictive about how you can play and how different strategies 
 affect you. This game is like a couple other games in that its like a flight sim, stealth action 
 game, and of course full on adreline rush hardcore shooter. The most fun thing part of this game 
 is when your team is on a roll and you just rush in owning anyone or anything in your way. The 
 multiplayer is the only part of the game worth playing because it is what the game was designed 
 for. I love palying with a couple of mhy friends online and going to checkpoints in force! Wel 
 in summary this game is superb and it is worth buying more now than ever so you save some money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanfre
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. A big improvement over bf1942 and Vetnam. I have no problem running it on 
 my comp on low detail tho. For the higher detail modes it can be really laggy and almost unplayable 
 especially online. Low detail still isn't that bad and it doesn't lag at all online. There are 
 tons of weapons and vehicles to chose from aswell as many different soldier classes which each 
 have their pros and cons. Doesn't take too long to get the controls down too so it's easy to get 
 right into the action. The ranking system is another cool new addition to the game. You can upgrade 
 ur soldier by doing good stuff for ur team and get awards and then unlock new weapons. This game 
 is a must get for fans of the series or even new players because it is absolutely amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andeh141
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2, where to start, what a game!? There's really something for everyone whether that 
 be on foot, Tanks, armored vehicles and even airplanes/helicopters. Graphics are amazing even when 
 there set on low. Sound effects are super realistic, actually sounds like a real battlefield!
 
  
  There are few things that annoy me about this game, the server browser really lacks use ability. 
 The game itself is very demanding, however i think this will not be problem for majority of people, 
 but i think that some people are being forced to upgrade their computers. Finally the online play 
 is very enjoyable when you don't have idiots on your team, unfortunately its something all online 
 games have... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pixelpimp
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 25, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  The most annoying thing about EA and BF2 is not the system crashes, the million patches you need 
 to install, then reinstall again so the game works, the almost non-existent EA customer support, 
 the sketchy in-game lag, the very bad server lag issues, it's the fact that if this game was properly 
 executed and actually finished it could have be the best online war / shooter game ever!
  
  For a start atually getting onto a server and finding a game is a chore in itself (that is assuming 
 you can actually login to your account) I estimated that the time it takes me to actually begin 
 playing on a server is between 6-10 mins. And believe me, I have a pretty beefy system and high 
 speed cable internet with a Game Fuel Router, so it's definately something on EA's behalf, because 
 to log onto a Steam or Valve game like Day Of Defeat or CS: Source sees me knee deep in action 
 under 2 mins - from the time I launch the Steam desktop icon.
  
  The concept of BF2 is one many gamers including myself love the idea of - modern day warfare that 
 loosely represents the current middle east turmoil and also presents a Chinese and US relations 
 problem that's already starting to bristle in the real world of the USA's infamous and woeful foreign 
 relations efforts. The problem is that EA have released not 1 but 2 games that don't even work 
 with each other properly. Special Forces requires you to download a 1.12 patch then reinstall that 
 same patch after the game install, otherwise EA warns of frequent desktop crashes. Whoever is doing 
 quality assurance and debugging at EA headquarters needs to be fired. Because somewhere down the 
 chain of command a head developer has shown very bad judgement and laziness or has just been lying 
 their asses off to EA executives - because this game is NOT finished!!!!
  
  What have we done (except hand over over our hard earned cash) to deserve this? EA almost punish 
 the consumer for buying this game. They present us with a game that almost requires a University 
 degree in computer programming just to work the bloody thing. And if thats not bad enough you need 
 to login at least twice before the Account Server accepts your account details. And just to top 
 things off - before you rush out and buy this game, jump onto some of the gaming and BF2 forums 
 and read the horror stories many people are experiencing
  
  Which leads me to weapons balancing - well should I say lack of - because there is none. Running 
 around in BF2 is more awkward and physically demanding then it would be for a real-life combat 
 marine over in Iraq. I thought they designed these weapons and uniforms to make the soilder comfortable 
 in the heat of battle? Let me tell you that even getting a good shot off in BF2 comes down to pure 
 flukage. If you can actually kill someone then you deserve to be promoted. The woeful in-game lag 
 is so bad that it's not uncommon to unload an entire clip onto some only for them to fire one shot 
 at you and kill you in the process. Weapons balance is pityful to say the least and a far cry from 
 the smooth balance you get from DOD or CSS.
  
  Then theres the whole TK thing. Sometimes in the heat of battle you can accidently nade someone 
 or kill a team mate - which gives all those smart ass pre-teenage little **** the ability to get 
 you kicked from a server for an accident. In fact in some instances you can get booted off a server 
 for absolutely no reason at all. Because BF2 is so buggy and so sensitive to packet loss, it's 
 not uncommon for you to be playing and then all of a sudden find yourself back at the server browser, 
 with an error message saying you've been kicked for excessive team killing WTF?
  
  My final point (believe me I could go on) brings me to probably the most embarrassing and appauling 
 in-game browser in the history of video games. The default browser in BF2 is so laggy it can actually 
 cause you to do a complete reboot of your computer. There is now a favorites option that has just 
 recently been added, but all these patches still has not adressed the problem and un-friendly GUI 
 issues for the BF2 browser. Unlike Steam you can change video settings and various options without 
 having to dissconnect from the game you're playing. Plus the ease of use with Steams in-game GUI 
 is by far light years ahead of anything EA has tried to impliment. BF2 also requires you to be 
 part of a team, the problem with that is no-one rarely wants to be. Everyone's to busy running 
 around aimlessly TK'ing one another or doing their own thing to give a dam about the games objectives, 
 this has a huge effect on whether someone is to enjoy the game, because once you finally log on, 
 you're confronted with a bunch of pre-pubscent teenagers who are pepped up on sugar and fizzy soft 
 drink running around calling all their team mates noobs. I have heard there are a few BF2 clans 
 and comminities that take the game a little more seriously and have more mature players on there, 
 but I'm yet to find them. Most servers I've been on are nothing more then a run around and shoot 
 anything that moves game, which as you can imagine gets very boring after 15 mins or so.
  
  I can only hope with recent announcment of EA is about to copy Valve and moving into the arena 
 of digital game distrubution that they create some thing that not only works, but is user friendly 
 and easy to use. Judging from their effort with BF2 that may turn out to be nothing more than wishful 
 thinking.
  
  I cannot recommend this game to anyone. it's so unusable it's not funny. I feel I've been ripped 
 off and have not recieved my value for money at all. Plus with a lot of people now hinting that 
 EA payed for good reviews to all the top publishing companies that produce the various gaming magazines, 
 you can see why BF2 is starting to crumble as a worthy title. Apparently it was factored into EA's 
 marketing budget for BF2 - makes sense, after all if you got good reviews, then more kids will 
 buy the game. Anyway judging from online BF2 servers you can see that even die hard BF2 fans are 
 already over BF2: Special Forces and are going back to the original game.
  
  If you really want a solid, reliable and relitively bug free online shooter look at Counter Strike: 
 Source among others... It's got team based dynamics that don't require you to nessesarilly be part 
 of a team, it's got better physics and animations and much better, more realistic action.
  
  But CSS is not the only one, there's plenty of worthy titles out there on the market... games that 
 offer the same intensity and fun you're looking for....
  
  oh and most of them, if not all of them are actually finished!
  
  Shame on you EA... shame! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_elwick
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 22, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  great atmoshpere and detailed graphics but in my opinion, not as good as the first!!
  For a start, it is much harder than battlefield 1942, the graphics look great and the sound gives 
 it great atmosphere but the game is quite frustrating, i could not even bind the keys i wanted 
 which was frustrating, leaving me to try and get used to keys i have never used!!! i have an optical 
 mouse and the game would nto let me bind my mouse buttons? ( for jump and crawl ect....)
  
  I noticed alot of the games vehicles missing as well, it looks like a comon thing these days, they 
 improve the graphics and sound but most often that not , they actually take alot of the game away 
 at the same time, alot of the time it means taking away the things thta made it a good game in 
 the first place!!!
  
  Overall i think i will stick to my halflife 2 mod , day of defeat !!!! if you have not already 
 tried it ?? give it a go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andresruiz91
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  this is a great gamejust like 2142, only that theres a lot of hatters out there that dont like 
 it for X reason. this game is a very good game, worth paying money, but not that much money. one 
 thing that sucks is theres alot of cheaters out there that hack in the games and also the load 
 times take away like 5 years of my life. o well, anyway this is a great game that involves fps 
 skills and if you cant handle it go back to the old stuff. 2142 is a great game and i think its 
 better than bf2. the graphics are great but theres not much diffrence in how i would score these 
 two games. i hate EA but i gotta hand it to them with the battlefield series, its one of the best 
 out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yakaspat
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  I would have enjoyed this game much, much more if I hadn't had to wait five or more minutes for 
 each multiplayer map to load, only to have the map dump me back to the lobby most of the time. 
 I spent most of my game time trying to get into a mission.
  
  Aside from that, the game was itself extremely fun to play. The single player missions are nothing 
 more than training missions, and are extremely easy, since the game's AI is laughable. But, that's 
 not what this game is about. It's all about multiplayer cooperative missions. The game ALMOST is 
 perfect in this category, if only other people online were more cooperative and less  
 Overall, I would recommend this game for people who seriously like modern multiplayer combat. Otherwise, 
 I would suggest passing this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_Fool_Sq
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is positively flawless.
  The only flaws are with the loser players online.
  O. K. I admit, not all of the players online are non-housebroken 5 year olds.
  But seriously, 
 they leave it up to the player to punish others for tk'ing.
  O. K. I can understand if someone on your own team comes up and knifes you in the skull. Punished. 
 But if jet flies over and bombs an enemy base which you just happen to be in, DON'T PUNISH. SERIOUSLY!
 
  
  And probably the reason why people punish is because they want to punish the noob who ruined their 
 K/D ratio. Oh N0EZ!!!!!!111 I ran under a plane and then DIEDZ0RZ.... OMFG!!
  PAGE UP PAGE UP PUNISH THE n00b!!!!!!!! 
  
  This game needs a patch that declares
  Players 
 may no longer punish other players if their death occurs when under a GODDAMN JET. 
  
  Thank you. And don't punish bombers. It's what they do. Oh yeah, I forgot to tell you about the 
 game. For the people who complain about missing all the time:
  1. Fire in small bursts
  2. Don't try to snipe someone on the other side of the map with a G4.
  It.
  Doesn't.
  Work.
 
  O. K?
  
  The game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cool_hima88
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  WoW! This Game Sequel is the best First person shooter ever; this game has it all starting from 
 cool battle gunz n blazin' combat and ending with the artillery strikes. Just from the start exilirating 
 cutscene- which by the way is the best cutscene ever- you can tell that this game is going to be 
 fun. As you start to play the game, you will find a million approach to fight your enemy; you can 
 drive tanks and blast infantry troops, fly with helicopters and even an F-16... the wide range 
 of diversity in this game is just great, making it the ultimate first person shooter game ever!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warriorlax1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  I love this game...... I know this review is old but idc...... it just re-installed this game and 
 I had forgotton how fun this game can be.... a man trying to take your jets using the heat sinker 
 missle and you sneak up behind him and blam..... he gonna have to respawn LOL.... I mean there is 
 sooo much action going on at times it can get crazy..... and the people you can meet on there and 
 team up with them and kick some major butt is absolutly fun.... The only complaint I have is the 
 load times.... I feel as though if I have to listen to one more chinese song or middle east song 
 while the map loads I will kill myself... LOL...... but I just turn off the speakers until its loaded 
 then rock n roll baby...... Anyway.. kinda getting off track here.. For anyone looking to buy the 
 game now... DO IT..... forget 2142.. not worth it... why play a game that has everything futurisitic???? 
 Forget that.. play a game that is now...... and you will not regret your purchase trust me..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gusmt66
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  This one is really complete!, you can fly a jet or a chopter, fire a great machine gun, drive the 
 tanks and jeeps, and a lot of things more!. I just have a little problem trying to drive the chopter, 
 I think it's kinda hard to learn, but not impossible, so I didn't see any other problem about this 
 game. By the way, if you have already bought it, pleeease you HAVE to play the multiplayer mode, 
 it's EXCELLENT!, really good! You just play with every one you can!, if you want to battle an army 
 just get in a server with a lot of people and you're in there!... I really congratulate people 
 who design this game, the last battlefield was really good but this one!!! woooww You beat it dudes!!!:.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naku_vamp
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is Very fun but if you don; t have a pretty nice gaming rig forget it most the problems 
 in it are usually lower end pc's i played this game on my computer before i built the one im on 
 now and i had alot of problems mostly with hit detection i had no lag online but the game never 
 seemed to hit things like i was a sniper they could be standing still i nail them but nothing happens 
 and now that my computer is way better than this game could ask for iv never had the problem since 
 in some cases this game can take a while to learn and it can be difficult online as there are many 
 things going on but thats what makes it fun
  
  if you only plan to be a foot solider or a medic or anything u just gatta learn to point and shoot 
 and learn to use the cars, tanks, and apcs which aren't hard to use
  
  if you plan on being a pilot helicopter or jet it will take u alot longer to get a hold of it and 
 even longer to master This game is also incredibly fun if you get your self in a clan and find 
 people that work well as a team and use the squads the game offers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lockness7
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 11, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  They should have gave us more to use not take things away. We should have had cruise missles, shoulder 
 fired stingers. Det packs that can be detonated in sequence, not all at once. It was a little disappointing 
 but the game is still good even though. I like that they made the helos fly the same as DC. I also 
 like the commander mode and squad features of the game. I gave sound a low rating for 1 reason. 
 The annoying sound that is made every time you move the AA guns on the ship. They should have also 
 put a short range radar for the AA so they know which way the enemy is coming from. Because every 
 pilot knows exactly where every aa gun is (easy kill) . This game is alright but its not what it 
 shoulda, coulda, and woulda been had ea just built on top of the already great game they had. As 
 for you infantry only ppl you should go play a game with inf only like Americas Army or somethin. 
 Its just stupid to buy a game with all this equipment and you cant use it because they want inf 
 only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firestorm91
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is an awesome game that delivers shattering effects and effective gameplay. The sound 
 is incredible in every way the game provides it. The amount of weapons is almost countless and 
 the ways on how to use them on enemies is outstandingly superb. These weapons include rocket launchers, 
 assault rifles, sniper rifles, pistols and so on. This ranges from launching artillery strikes 
 at bases (strongest attack) to knifing your opponents on foot (weakest attack) . There are plenty 
 of useable vehicles in Battlefield 2 and there are varieties for vehicles depending on which side 
 you play on. Humvees, helicopters, fighter jets, and tanks are to name a few of the vehicles. If 
 a few tweaks were applied, this game would be extremely solid. The Gameplay in Battlefield 2 is 
 very good. The controls might take some time to get used to but once the player gets the hang of 
 them, it is very entertaining. Sniper rifles are easy to use, all it takes is a right click of 
 the mouse to get your solider staring inside the scope. There is, however, a lack of realism in 
 this game. There is no pulse when you use the sniper rifle and it makes it very, very easy to snipe 
 someone. It's awesome for single player mode but it's just brutal online. In the single player 
 mode, there's a variety of maps to choose from. You will basically try to get all of your opponents' 
 control points and tear down their tickets. Creating or joining up a squad can determine whether 
 you win the battle or not. You can even be a commander of the battle you are fighting but that 
 can be a big responsibility. If you choose to create a squad, you can invite other soldiers of 
 other squads and they will fight alongside your team. Choosing a squad is easy, all you do is click 
 the join button on a squad and there you go. All you really do in a squad is follow orders and 
 hope you win the fight. There are lots of options for the commander; this can be hard and confusing 
 at first, but it gets easier the more you play it. Some of the things commanders can do are issue 
 commands for all the squads on your side of the battle. These include defending control points 
 or attacking control points. Scanning the map is another feature of the commander's ability. This 
 will locate enemies for you on your map; this is how you set up ambushes and attacks. Calling in 
 artillery strikes could be a life saver if you're being over-run. The commander has a lot of other 
 capabilities in this game that the player is likely to enjoy. As for the other weapons, the all 
 have their strengths and weaknesses. There are weapon kits to choose from. There's the Special 
 Forces Kit which includes an assault rifle and some sort of special explosives. Secondly, there's 
 the Sniper Kit, which obviously contains the sniper. Next there's the Assault Kit, this will include 
 an assault rifle with a grenade launcher attachment or something. There's the Support Kit that's 
 used for suppressing the enemy; this kit has the heavy machine gun. There is also the Engineer 
 kit that's used for repairs on vehicles or certain structures. Lastly there's the Anti-tank kit. 
 This kit has the rocket launcher that can be used on anything. It certainly won't kill anything 
 in one hit but it is useful. To continue on with the lack of realism, the enemies don't die that 
 easily. They will keep fighting until you finally kill them or until they kill you. You would think 
 that when you bag someone with a powerful sniper or a 50. Caliber machine gun, they would drop 
 dead. This dosen't happen here, these enemies are punishing healthwise. There are three difficulty 
 modes and easiest is the way to go for the starters. The enemies are forgiving and they don't fight 
 at their full amount. It gets harder as the difficulties rise. The gameplay in Battlefield 2 is 
 great, but there are a few problems with it and they can be fixed. Also, If you get critically 
 wounded, a medic can heal you, but you'll be lucky if you do get healed. The graphics in Battlefield 
 2 are superb. There are beautiful environments alongside with sharp looking scenery. The character 
 models look very well done and you can somewhat tell what kind of kit they have by looking at them. 
 The vehicles look awesome and so do the gun models. There is even some destructable environment 
 effects and those are very cool. The maps look great, and the destroyed cities are very neat. The 
 player cannot go wrong with the graphics in Battlefield 2.
  
  The mutliplayer in this game is just awesome. There is up to 64 players in online modern-warfare 
 combat and it's like actual war. This game is even better if the player gets a headset to communicate 
 with other people. There is a little big of lagging which can piss people off but if you let it 
 go, you can have an enjoyable online experience in Battlefield 2. There are plenty of game modes 
 and there are lots of medals to be collected. There are also many awards to be won. You cannot 
 go wrong with the online multiplayer for this game.
  
  The sound in this game is brilliant. The gunshots sound wicked and it definatly goes with the gameplay. 
 The sniper shots sound the best, all you hear is the loud bang of your sniper and it makes you 
 feel good when you drop an enemy with it. The vehicle motors sound awesome and the players communicating 
 offline sound excellent. The jet engines roar is awesome with the helicopter's blades ripping through 
 the air. The sound is perfect for a game like this.
  
  Overall, Battlefield 2 is an awesome modern shooter that shouldn't be missed by any means. There's 
 great gameplay, superb graphics, and awesome sound. The game has a lot of value to is as well, 
 so if you get a chance, go grab this game because it is definatly worth your time and you will 
 have many hours put into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tangomadman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  This game is an excellent example of what games of this genre should be like. It includes something 
 for all players, whether you like flying a jet at ultra fast speeds, sneaking to the enemies base 
 and assassinating thier commander or just getting a big machine gun and mowing down waves of enemies; 
 all within this one title. Exceptional. The problem I have with this game is that blood is replaced 
 with dust, all other graphics are awe-inspiring, that is if your computer can handle it! I would 
 seriously recommend downloading the demo, it is the best free demo fI have ever played. If you 
 like that then get the full version which includes 1000's of servers to play on and Ea's superb 
 ranking system which gives you weapon unlocks and ranks to show your battle experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholdend
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 4, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  This game has the tools to be one of the greatest games. Online games, tanks, planes, buggies, 
 commanders, squads, and more. Unfortunately, the screwed up and made people invincible. Ever wonder 
 what a .50 cal M95 sniper rifle would do to someone? It makes dust come out of their vest. Ever 
 wonder what happens when you shoot a clip of 7.62 mm bullets from an AK-101 into someone at point 
 blank? Nothing. This game would be the best game I have ever played, if only they fixed the invincibility. 
 You might expect they would fix these problems with the patches, but, in fact, they made it worse. 
 DICE made it harder to kill people, created new glitches trying to get rid of old ones, etc. Bunny 
 hopping and dolphin diving is encountered all over multi play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeti_se17
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Maybe it's just me. Maybe the excitement of gratuitous killing gets me too excited and my trigger 
 finger trembles. Actually, I don't think it is. I think the hit detection in this game is broken. 
 Plain and simple. I wish I'd checked out all the video's on youtube demonstrating this before kissing 
 goodbye to 40 smackers. I mean it's like having a driving game where the accelerator only works 
 intermittently. THE fundamental part of this game doesn't work properly. I was actually really 
 looking forward to playing this game, even only with bots, my misanthropy prevents me from going 
 anywhere near the collection of puerile imbecile's that play this online ... check any of the forums 
 for a barrage of l33t speak by kiddies pwning people to send you running to the nearest dictionary 
 to reassure yourself that the rape of this language isn't yet a global pandemic. But even offline, 
 this game is just no fun to play. And it could be. UT2004 is a blast to play with bots. And all 
 because the developer has ensured that when you put your sniper rifle cross hairs in the center 
 of someone's forehead and pull the trigger, well, they die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  when i first bought this i didnt have internet with gaming capability so i played offline agianst 
 the AI, which to be frank, was crap. the cheat to get all the unlocks (with original, unpatched 
 version of game only) was a really good way of deciding which unlock to get first and then i got 
 online finally. at first, trawling through the hundreds of servers might seem duanting, but after 
 a while of playing round with the filters i found my first match. as what seems to be the norm, 
 it was on a karkland 32 player map and what i first realised is that you get a completely different 
 experience from playing with people. firstly, if you are the tactally minded, you'll expect the 
 opposition to flank as much as possible, unlike the AI with follows certian paths (most of them 
 direct) and this keeps you on your guard at all times. the maps are huge on 64 player. it took 
 me a whole 5 minutes in a jeep to get to the other side of stalemate (probably from the fact i 
 was being shot at most of the time) and thats not the biggest map.
  the weapons on the game are good, they feel like weapons and not a visual representation of one.
 
  now, unlocks.
  the older version of the game only had one unlock from each kit.
  the newer version has two for each kit.
  as ive got both sniper unlocks now i can say that the 
 second group of unlocks are way better. the DAO (auto shotgun) for the anti tank was good, but 
 the MP7 that you get now is fabulous!
  but, there are problems.
  as soon as you buy the game you are forced to sit at your PC for about 2 hours downloading patches 
 for the game for it to be even playable. then you have to have the latest patch always or you'll 
 never find any servers with the same patch version as you.
  and the game is hit and miss. ive had no problems so far but ive heard alot of, and i mean alot 
 of, people saying they've found bugs and glitches all over the place.
  even in the latest patch, there are still bugs. DICE (the makers of the game) dont seem to understand 
 the nature of fixing stuff. they fix one or two bugs, but in so doing they create more which gives 
 them and us more work to do.
  but, in the end, this will always be a great online game, and that the never ending happiness from 
 knife-ing someone in the face for the first time will be with you forever.
  and the difficulty setting is invalid for this game. the hardness depends on what sort of player 
 you are. hardcore gamers will see almost no hardness whereas newbies to the game will be slaughtered. 
 dont worry though, everyone has to start somewhere. practise, thats the key! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squall780
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best online first person shooters (FPS) games I've played since Unreal Tournament 
 2004. Battlefield 2 has a great multiplayer mode which can bring on loads of fun as the player 
 either rejoices that their team is doing well or gets a little stressed when their team can't cap 
 a flag. The patches may have added bugs rather than fix them, but the game is still fun to play. 
 Also I don't really like the graphics because my computer was new when the game came out and it 
 can't handle graphics above the lowest settings. For high settings you'd need a graphics card more 
 powerful than mine. Although, even on low settings the graphics look good for a game that lets 
 you choose low, medium, or high. There's also an in-game tutorial to teach you as you play which 
 if you want to go through every little detail could take about an hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobby-jonh
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game i have ever played in my life. Its so addictive i remeber once my neighbor 
 said it sucked so i made him play. And after that day he would beg me to let him play everyday. 
 You get ranks, medals and unlocks its just so fun the only bug that i dont like is the knife. Sometimes 
 this guy is moving and if he stays still one second i plunge and stab him but it doesnt kill him!!! 
 And i get shot a knife kills one shot . Sometimes im backing up and shooting ha dude with a knife 
 hes like a meter away from me he swings his like 10cm knife and i die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicecityfan1117
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is just great. It has a lot of vehicles, a lot of weapons, and a lot of action. This 
 is way better than 2142. Just compare how many vehicles are on each game. 2142 has the same models 
 for both teams, just with different paint. EA will add more vehicles to 2142, but they will be 
 in booster packs. Shame on you EA. Also, 2142 contains spyware. No thanks. Overall and comparing 
 BF2 to the flaming bag of dog excrement that way 2142, this game is the best. The only bad thing 
 about this game are the people that play the game. Some servers are full of statpadders and idiots 
 that use the antitank weapon to kill infantry. Also there are a lot of random lockups and crashes. 
 But if you can look past that and find a server with some good people to play this, this will be 
 one of the funnest games you might have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zorbrak
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 25, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  If your looking for a game that has some of the best multiplayer action out there along with great 
 graphics, Battlefield 2 is your game. However, people looking to play this game on single-player 
 may as well just leave it alone. Battlefield 2 is overall a great game. It has amazing graphics 
 and stunning effects. The sound is also nice, and it can draw you in to the game. However, all 
 these details are costly to your computer. If you have an integrated graphics card, you may as 
 well just leave this game alone until you update. Older computers will not be able to handle Battlefield 
 2. This game IS playable on 512mb of RAM, but you will suffer from terribly slow loading times, 
 and quite a few lag spikes. For optimal performance with all the great visual features on, you 
 will need 1.5 to 2gb of RAM and a fairly new video card. However, this game doesn't need much CPU 
 power, so if your's is decent, you'll be alright. Aside from performance issues with older computers, 
 this game looks great.
  
  Battlefield 2 has fantastic online gameplay. It is very challenging and will take a lot of practice, 
 but it's definitely worth it. As you play through the game, you will unlock multiplayer rewards, 
 some of which include new weapons, medals, and more. These all benefit to the stand-alone great 
 multi-player action this game has to offer.
  
  Although the multi-player is great, as I said before, the single-player leaves a lot to desire. 
 There is basically no campaign, and it lacks much depth. However, you can play a few maps by yourself 
 on single-player and still have a good time. The AI has definitely improved from 1942 and challenges 
 many players, but is not as team-based as many would hope. If you want a great multi-player game, 
 then get this one! Don't buy this game just for single-player. Otherwise, it's a fantastic game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: role-player07
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  Bf2 is astounding! It has more adrenaline than you have playing anyother shooting game I bet my 
 bottom dollar. You have to play the right way to be good is the one fault, you can't really go 
 out and think you are going to slaughter everyone in your sight. I think that is good, but there 
 are mixed reactions for this type of play. The limit of gun selections is limited, but that is 
 arite. The sniping is excellent. So is the speed of the game. WIth 2 or 3 bads there is a 100 goods. 
 If you don't like this game get help because you are crazy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlainX84
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  This is the pinnacle of games for the PC. If you have'nt already played this game and your are 
 a PC gamer... play it.... buy it..... NOW!!!! The game is impressive whether it is in the maps, ranks, 
 awards, gameplay, online capabilities, etc/etc/etc. If you have a computer with a decent graphics 
 card, ample amount of RAM and memory you must get this game, you won't regret it... in fact, if 
 you don't buy this game you should feel ashamed and embarrased. Like I said before this is the 
 pinnacle of games one that can hold its own with the greatest FPS of them all - CS, Halo, Half 
 Life..... simply AMAZING..... bravo EA, bravo.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reconhalo2playa
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 16, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Okay, this is a real great game for online players. It is pretty good too for singleplayer but 
 you can not get the full satisfaction. The graphics have got better and so has the gameplay. This 
 one is more fun I think and it really more realistic than the first Battle Field. The single player 
 is a lot more fun because of the awesome graphics and gameplay. It is more reaslistic by grenades 
 and the amount of shots it takes to kill the other person. This is for sure a great computer game 
 and I would def. suggest in buying this if you are able to connect online and if you like shooting 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeyPegasus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 3:32 am PT
Review:  First of all, I want to warn you before you are going to play Battlefield 2!
  1) It is highly addictive, so you can aspect low marks on school, a kick on your ass from your 
 boss or even your girlfriend
  2) The patches. EA has screwed the game pretty up with al her patches, but it seems now that Patch 
 1.41 is quite good!
  
  Battlefield 2 is one of the greatest multiplayer games you will ever play. Intensive massive multiplayer 
 actions makes you addicted in no-time. In BF2 you can play in maps designed for 64, 32 or 16 players 
 and they all have their entertainments. In 64 maps, tank and air battles are the principal parts, 
 while when you are in a 16 player map the is focused on man to man close combat. Little enoying 
 are the lots of bunnyhoppers and dolphindivers in thsoe 16 P maps.
  With Patch 1.4, EA brought a new game mode, called Infantry Only. And it is really fun, especially 
 on the city maps like Strike at Karkand. The game is still one of the most played multiplayergames, 
 and that will be for a long time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trickyvoice
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 14, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game and definatly worth a look for those who have lived in the closet for 
 the past year and a half. Great graphics and very good team based scenario only issue I have is 
 I'm not a major fan of respawn tho on BF2 I think they have it done just right, a small delay before 
 you respawn and then your back in action. for those who havn't played, you dnt know what your missing. 
 this game will be one you'll love to have a clan on, ATM I'm not in a clan for BF2 but I'm trying 
 to work my way into the westwood clan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtrack0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 12, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Background:
  The award-winning Battlefield franchise invades the high tech frontlines of modern warfare in the 
 new sequel, Battlefield 2. The game brings the intensity and excitement of Battlefield 1942 into 
 the modern era with enhanced team play and the latest, most technologically advanced vehicles and 
 weapons systems available to man.
  
  In Battlefield 2, players will choose to fight for one of three military superpowers: the United 
 States, the Chinese, or the newly formed Middle East Coalition. Armed with the latest modern weaponry, 
 players can take control of any of the games 30+ vehicles to engage in major conflicts with over 
 64 players in some of the largest online battles on the PC. Additionally, persistent character 
 growth allows players to rise through the ranks and attain the ultimate rank of General.
  Gameplay:
  An all-new game engine and physics system brings the modern battlefield to life like 
 never before. The new material penetration feature measures weapons ability to fire through barriers 
 based on their composition and players will need to know the difference between concealment and 
 cover in order to survive.
  
  Battlefield 2 features immense, richly detailed, destructible environments, from city streets to 
 remote forests, in some of the most notorious hot spots around the world. Each map in Battlefield 
 2 adjusts in scale to support the number of players in the world, providing the ideal vehicle- 
 to-player ratio and an optimized gameplay experience.
  
  Enhanced team play features allow players to enter the action on the front lines as part of a formal 
 squad, or work behind the scenes in Commander Mode to direct the strategic assaults of their teammates.
 
  
  Soldier kits now affect vehicles that players utilize on the battlefield. For instance, the medic 
 kit can transform a vehicle into a mobile aid station and the support kit can make helicopters 
 into flying ammo dumps.
  
  Features:
  
  Online multiplayer action with 100+ players on the PC. All-new gameplay engine brings the immense 
 locations to life complete with realistic physics and dynamic lighting.
  
  Maps scale to the number of players engaging in battle for a unique and intense experience every 
 time.
  
  Take control of over 30 land, sea, and air vehicles, including tanks, helicopters, hovercraft, 
 fast attack vehicles, and fighter jets.
  
  Choose to battle as U. S., Chinese, or Middle East Coalition troops, each with their own unique 
 arsenals.
  
  A variety of solider classes to choose from, including Assault, Sniper, Special Ops, Combat Engineer, 
 and Anti-tank units.
  
  Join a squad or select the new Commander Mode to assume the strategic role of a battlefield commander 
 directing his forces.
  
  New state-of-the-art weapon systems, including heat seeking missiles and laser designated bombs. 
 Material penetration feature makes sure players know the difference between cover and concealment.
 
  
  Character Persistence and Growth. With in-game success, players increase their rank and unlock 
 awards, including new weapons, vehicle decals, medals and more.
  
  Earn ranks ranging from Recruit all the way to General.
  
  Full in-game community support including, 
 buddy lists, stat tracking, live chat rooms, and in-game clan creation. Voice-over IP supported 
 with USB headset.
  
  Min System Requirements:
  Windows XP (32-bit) with Admin rights
  1.7 GHz Intel Celeron D / Pentium 4 or AMD Athlon XP/ Sempron or greater
  512 MB of RAM or more
 
  8x or faster CD/DVD drive
  2.3 GB free hard drive space or more
  DirectX 9.0c compatible (see video)
  DirectX 9.0c compatible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikapoka
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 11, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  ok, this may well be one of the best games ever.... im not kidding
  well if not the best, then deffinetly the best online game...
  the gunplay is incredibly acurate, 
 and i say that confident, coz i know a thing or two about real guns! the bullet spread is acuratly 
 made, the trijectory of the shots is acurate and the guns behave just soooo lifelike!
  
  the battles are over the top! shure its annoying when people play it unrealisticaly, you know what 
 i mean.... but when you find a server with people who play it without **** and true to life, its 
 some of the best gameplay youll ever ever ever expirience!
  blazing fire from mg's on rooftops, sniping, blasting, tanking.... oh my god! its true that its 
 a system killer... its one of the most demanding games ive ever come across... even if you have a 
 state of the art pc, its gonna kill it dead... seriously
  
  the in game menu for finding servers is clumbsy and the ranking system laggs a bit with updating 
 itself, but if you can look past that, its one of the friggin best games ever!
  
  its totaly worth going to the store, smacking down that litle bit of money to be able to play online, 
 and get ready for a gaming expirience that you wont forget in a hurry! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  And when i say a lot, I mean everytime i played the damn game. Life wasn't so bad in single player, 
 but the offline play is pretty damn rubbish in BF2. Online is most definetely essential to get 
 the most out of this game, so why so much latency? You'd think that in a game that concentrates 
 solely on multiplayer, it would have a more efficient and reliable engine. Before anyone thinks 
 it, I have a very respectable PC, with only the grafix card being slightly dated and 2mb broadband, 
 so the problem is not at my end. I even ran the game on its lowest graphical settings and applied 
 all patches, still I had problems. But anyway, lets get onto what this game could have been without 
 the lag. The graphics are pretty superb with modern weapons and vehicles looking shiny and attractive 
 in the virtual sun. The gameplay consists of you and a bunch of teammates starting at one end, 
 with your opponents at the other, and letting you loose in usually huge maps full of jets, tanks 
 and dingheys. The weapons are a joy to use, and are all balanced quite nicely. The objective is 
 to capture certain points on the map and slowly drain your opponents points until zero usually, 
 or theres good old deathmatch to be getting on with. Online shooter veterans will feel at home 
 with BF2; I found it to be a kind of Counter Strike with vehicles. Might just be me. There is a 
 whole bunch of medals to be won in online play, and new, better weapons to be unlocked. This adds 
 to the replay value, which there is tons of in the addictive multiplayer anyways.
  I really liked this game, but the constant latency problems really pissed me off and i ended up 
 giving up on it. If this was to be sorted out, the game would be essential to any shooter fan. 
 The Good - Lovely graphics - Fans of CS will love this - So much potential...
  
  The Bad - ... Squandered by too many performance issues - Single player is boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Last_Ride
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  This game is defenatly more advanced then the first game in the series. It's not my kind of game, 
 but that doesn't mean that it is not good. I would have liked if they put more of what they put 
 in the &oslash; ast game, but thats just me. If you really liked first one i don't know if you are 
 gonig to get used with this one. This has some cool and good features no doubt. Like choppers, 
 tanks, fighters, etc. But i just like regular old fights. And i like the first better, because 
 they had much more of that. And it's very hard to be a one man show in this game, which is probably 
 good for many. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  The Good: This game is fun and looks great. The controls are very smooth and driving or piloting 
 the vehicles is seemless and fun.
  The Bad: Many bugs and glitches pull this game down. It could have ben so much more than it is. 
 SP is a waste and not worth playing. MP is filled with cheaters and hackers that ruin all online 
 games for true PC gamers.
  
  Gameplay:8.5
  Graphics:8.5
  Sound:8.0
  Value:8.0
  Tilt:8.0
  Singleplayer:7.0
  Multiplayer:8.0
  
  Conclusion: All in all this game started 
 out strong but left me uninstalling it in the end. If you don't mind putting up with hackers, long 
 loading times, bugs/glitches, exploits, bad lag/fps and getting frustrated by spawn campers then 
 this is the game for you. It's not worth my time or a place on my hard drive. I wanted to really 
 love this game but when you would rather pull your hair out in frustration than get any pleasure 
 from playing a game it's time to say goodbye. This game has some very good points, thats why it 
 got a GREAT from me but in the end, it's a waste of money imo.
  
  My Score:8.0 Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atg1993
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Battlefeild 2 is an excellent i think it is the best one so far. I probaly like this one the most 
 because you get the most helicopters and planes in it. I like going in the planes and bombing any 
 they dont no about it until they are dead. mwaaaa. One of the bad points with battlfeild is that 
 it takes quite a while to load especially when you are on the internet. But this dosent stop me 
 from getting on. Lots of people still play this game evan though battfeild 2142 has been released.
 
  
  The graphics are quite good but some things dont look quite right in it. My favourite class is the 
 spec ops as you can blow up bridges which is very amusing.
  
  I would definatley say that you should buy it.
  
  Adam Gavin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 1, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I have waited for maybe eons to play Battlefield 2. I was a huge fan of the original and wanted 
 to play the sequel so badly when it came out. Unfortunately, lack of sufficient PC hardware forced 
 me to wait. I waited for almost a whole year, and was finally given my big break when I ordered 
 my new PC. When I first played Battlefield 2, I was amazed. I was so amazed, that I wondered if 
 this moment was even real. Not only does Battlefield 2 render its predecessor completely obsolete, 
 but redefines the battlefield formula on the whole. Even though its a sequel, Battlefield 2 crushes 
 the competition, and delivers gameplay that is more intense that its predecessor.
  
  Theres really no story to Battlefield 2, but the story revolves somewhat around a so called World 
 War 3, where the USA and China are battling it out for control of China. Sounds like fun. You can 
 play as the USA, the forces of China or the Middle Eastern collision. Keep in mind that Battlefield 
 has no story. Its all about crazy multiplayer action.
  
  Graphics- 9/10
  For its time and even to this date, Battlefield 2 is an amazing looking game. Everything has been 
 improved from the amount of detail on the characters, vehicles, environments, shadows, lighting, 
 etc. The characters are really good looking, and have a lot more detail done to minor parts like 
 the gloves, weapons, animations and their shadows. Their shadows are much softer this time around 
 and the lighting on them is more lavish. Plus, since theres more detail to the characters, all 
 their gear on them actually looks like real objects and not just ordinary textures. The vehicles 
 look great and also animate greatly. What really makes this game look good though is the lighting. 
 The lighting is always at a perfect angle with everything, giving each individual object in the 
 environment the perfect shadows. The special effects such as the bullets, explosions, etc also 
 look awesome. Its just stunning the first time any gamer see an artillery shell slam into the 
 ground and the special effects of rocks and dirt go flying in the air. The weapons themselves also 
 look great, with more detail to them and even damage the environment. In the end, the Battlefield 
 2 engine is one of the best graphic engines of 2005, and still remains a good looking game to this 
 date.
  
  Sound- 10/10
  Battlefield 2 doesnt just look great, it sounds great too. The acting in the game is very sharp, 
 clear and easy to understand. Just like the original, Battlefield 2 also has multiple languages 
 for each faction. The weapons themselves sound awesome. When you fire a machine gun, it sounds 
 like you are firing a machine gun, and it looks like it too. Trust me when I tell you this, the 
 sound of a weapon firing can feel very intimidating when the speakers are cranked to high. You 
 may even hear a bullet whiz past your head at one point or another. The explosions are spot on, 
 and the vehicles actually sound like real helicopters. From the ignition of a jeep to the roaring 
 power-up of an attack plane, Battlefield 2 never disappoints on sound. Gameplay- 9/10
  Even at this day and age, Battlefield 2 is still an insanely fun game to play. Its not just the 
 fact that the game plays great, but that the game makes you wanting to come back for more, no matter 
 how much you play. Battlefield 2 definitely improves on not just the multiplayer, but the single 
 player as well.
  
  The first improvement over the online play is the full voice communication built into the game. 
 All gamers need is a headset or a microphone, and they can instantly communicate with each other. 
 Online also supports up to 64 players (when compared to the 32 in the original.) Theres also a 
 new squad system which help organize players into small groups. The squads are lead by squad leaders 
 whos job is to keep the squad in line and keep in communication with the commander. Players can 
 also only talk to members of their own squad, which saves the trouble of too many players screaming 
 at each other all at once. The overall leader of the map is the commander who has very powerful 
 abilities. He can order a radar scan of a certain area, provide supply drop to a squad in need 
 of them, fire artillery at a certain enemy area, and much more. Players can also keep a permanent 
 character this time around, who gains experience points and advances in rank. This makes you more 
 eligible to be the commander in a game. If you dont want to play with other people, play a single 
 player game with the new AI bots which are years beyond their predecessors. They may make a few 
 mistakes here and there but at least they wont drive your character of a cliff or something. When 
 you add all this up, the intense gameplay, fast paced action, and down right insane fun will keep 
 players coming back for more for long periods of time. Problems are minor. The server browser is 
 clumsy so it may be difficult to keep track of a certain game, and theres no way to keep track 
 of your friends. The loading time are also longer than acceptable and may even become unacceptably 
 long at times. The hardware requirements are also steep. Its recommended that you have a video 
 card that a couple of years old at the least. Any more and thats pushing it. Best to have a more 
 modern video card.
  
  In the end, despite the minor problems, Battlefield is easily one of the best games of 2005 and 
 immerses gamers in the series like never before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyxunit
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  This is the best FPS multiplayer G@ME EVER!!!! Battlefield2 for life. It is really c00L. U can 
 play as Spec-Ops, Sniper, Assault, Engineer, Anti-Tank, and Medic. U can also play for US marines, 
 Mec army (Iraq) , or PRA (China) !! The game also features Heli's, Humvee's, Tanks, boats, planes, and 
 more. U really have fun when some kills u and then u get so pissed u get a tank and blow their head 
 off. That is FREAKING fun and what makes Battlefield 2 , well Battlefield 2. Trust Me when I say 
 this!!! The game is not rated 9.3 for no reason. So go buy the game and u won't regret it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jigsaw_McGraw
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Mulitplayer is where its at and if you are looking for the best in online gaming you came to the 
 right place. Before I go on to the positive let me give a few negatives. For one, the loading is 
 incredibly slow no matter how fast your computer is. Online will have some lag, which will get 
 frustrating at times. My last complaint is that you need to patch it constantly to be able to find 
 a server you can get into. Other than that, you will have a blast playing it. For one, there is 
 a ranking system for total kills, flag captures, etc. where you can gain rank and earn new weapons. 
 The maps are completely open ended and very large with up to 32 people on each side. The game is 
 incredibly addicting and there are around 5 or 7 different professions (sniper, medic, engineer, 
 etc.) to choose from. The game is incredible with all the players on screen on each side and things 
 to accomplish. My personal favorite thing is sniping unnoticing victims and watch the squirm (I 
 am pretty sick) . I recommend the game to anyone with patience and is into incredible online. BTW 
 there is a single player campaign which is basically multiplayer with AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_copycat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  good game this game has great grahpics and the gameplay is great as well if thinkin of getting 
 this dont read this review just go and get it for yourrself.
  but if u r sad u should read this Battlefield 2 is, obviously, the sequel to the highly successful 
 Battlefield 1942 and Battlefield Vietnam. It features a brand-new game engine with graphics and 
 sound that are obviously far superior to the original, but the core gameplay ideas are still there.
 
  
  In fact, if u ask me i would say that it is just a mod set in the desert but with loads of action 
 and fun the down side is that there is not as many maps i had thought there is the map which is 
 in the demo which hasent realy changed and there is a few more maps. but the game is still brillent 
 in ever other way
  
  then there is the multiplayer part which is one of the best online experinces u will get but make 
 sure the map u join has other people playing and not just 1 or 2 i mean the big matchs with 64 
 players
  
  overall this game is just stunning the grahpics are good and the gameplay great sao go get this 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Ghost12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Remember when 1942 came out? Wow. Now that was a first-person shooter. I played the heck out of 
 that game. Then Vietnam came out, and I was like.. eh. And then I saw BF2, and I instantly knew 
 it was going to be awesome. I can't tell you how long I played the Gulf of Oman multiplayer demo. 
 When I got the deluxe edition with Special Forces, I came back into the craze. It's just so addicting, 
 and I can't find out why. I just play. The graphics are great for being over a year old now, and 
 the weapons and gameplay are also superb. I played 2142 recently, and I didn't like it at all. 
 It seemed so confusing to me. I'd rather stick with the best version, BF2. challenge everything! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GS16
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Ive never really been interested in PC games. But one day I decided to try Battlefield 2. It totally 
 blew me away. It is definitely one of the best multi-player shooters since Halo. A note of warning 
 to you story buffs: Battlefield 2 has none. You can play on maps in single-player, but you just 
 use bots as if you were in a multi-player match. The bots are highly improved since Battlefield 
 1942 and Vietnam. Multi-player is where all of the meat is, though. You can play 16, 32, or 64 
 player matches. The graphics for the game are great, but they require a really beefy system to 
 fully enjoy. The difficulty of the games varies depending on who you are playing with, but its 
 an easy game to pick up and play. All of these factors add up to make this game one of the best 
 multi-player shooters all year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Current System Configurations:
  Intel P4 2.2ghz
  1gb DDR-SD Ram
  BFG Geforce 6200 Graphics
  
  Battlefield 2 is a stunning game from almost every perspective, 
 the graphics are state-of-the-art, the sound is life-like, and it's easy to dive into. Of course, 
 it will take some time to become aquainted with all of the various functions found in Battlefield 
 2. In Battlefield 2, you are a soldier of several classes spanning spec ops, assault, medics, and 
 more. Each equip with weapons that best suit them, and tools that they will use on the battlefield.
 
  
  Teamwork you will find is a major aspect of this game. You can lone wolf it, but its much more 
 beneficial to stick with your buddies, or even form into squads. Though there are several game 
 modes, the one that really defines battlefield is conquest mode, where each team must aquire a 
 number of positions, while defeating the other team in one of two ways. Capturing all the positions, 
 or removing all of the other teams tickets, a distinct life system where if a player dies, a ticket 
 is removed from the counter.
  
  But what really makes battlefield 2 so much better than the others, is how much more thorough it 
 is, as far as warfare games goes, it doesnt get much more complete than battlefield 2.
  
  The graphics for battlefield 2 are simply stunning, regardless of what kind of computer you're 
 playing on. It runs well simply on the minimum system requirements. The visual effects as well, 
 are remarkable. And on top of that the sound is great. Each gun captures a very believable, if 
 not real sound. The ringing ears after a grenade, sound just doesnt get better than battlefield 
 2.
  
  With the large list of unlockables, medals, and rankings to obtain, this game will keep you busy 
 for years to come, or until people stop playing it. Because the single player is bland, and the 
 AI isn't the smartest, this game is Largely focused on multiplayer. Which can, bring it down a 
 little bit.
  
  In short this is one of the easiest games to reccomend in the past several years, and for years 
 to come. It plays great, is fun to get into. And draws you into a great gaming community. - 9.4
 
  
  DeadParrot 145 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timogrog
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  I think the games really good when i can actually play it but it takes me about 10-20 minutes to 
 get in some times and then a further 5 minutes to get over initial lag - you may be thinking its 
 my computer but its brand new practically and my internet is quite fast and works fine with other 
 games.
  
  i always play best when its late at night never when im fully awake :s Figures !?!?
  
  The 
 weaponry is kl especially the unlocks you get if you own special forces and get the multi-purpose 
 assault rifle - i like the fact that no one else usually has it and are like 'Dude u hack' that 
 happened just once :S...
  
  As you can tell im trying to pad out 100 words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westsideplaya35
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  THIS IS THE BEST COMPUTER GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED, it INVOLES ALOT OF STRAGETY AND TACTICS ALONG 
 WIT GREAT FIRST PERSON SHOOTING!!! Multiplayer is AWESOME ,AND THE PRICE CAME DOWN PRETTY LOW SO 
 IF U CAN AFFORD SPENDIND 30 BUKS THEN GO AHEAD AND DO IT AND U WWNT REGRET IT, JUST MAKE SURE YOUR 
 COMPUTER CAN SUPPORT THIS GAME. i DNT KNO WAT ELSE TO SAY BUT , EY GIMME YO LUNCH TICKET, OR I 
 JAK YO BATTLEFIELD 2, B A T T L E F I E L D 2 R O C K S M Y S O C K S ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartheggs973
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is one of the best games I own. The action is like nonoe other. Multiplayer, the 
 best thing to ever happen to my computer, is the most fun I have had with a game in a long time. 
 I personally like to play the 64-player maps the most, but that may just be me. Even though the 
 multiplayer pretty much makes the game the singleplayer is still fun. Even though you can only 
 play 16-player maps. There is another downside to the singleplayer. The bots are the stupidest 
 things in the world if you play on easy. (exaggerated a little) If you put it on medium or hard 
 it gets better but still. The maps are awesome. There big, they give areas that allow for large 
 gunfights, and I personally like lots of command posts. All in all Battlefield 2 is a way fun game 
 and if you get hooked there is no stopping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woolston
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a ,quite frankly brilliant game. It expands on the excellent Battlefield 1942, changing 
 to a modern day setting. It's amazingly fun to play, especially online against other people and provides 
 a great offline experience too.
  
  Graphically, the game has no faults. Each of the maps is well designed and convincingly well realised. The 
 gameplay is addictive. The vehicles are easy to control and each of the troop classes brings something 
 to the game. My personal favourite is the special operations class.
  
  The game does have some flaws though. Sometimes when you're shooting at someone the bullets don't 
 seem to hit them or have any effect on them at all and the offline experience really can't compete 
 with the online experience. Still these are not big flaws and they don't ruin the game. Battlefield 
 2 is one of the best games i own for the PC and is better than Modern Combat on the Playstation 
 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisgtahalo22
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is good... very good, no story, just pure multiplayer madness, which is a good thing.
 
  
  Graphics-Considering what happens in this game, there are really great. The textures, models, and 
 effects are top notch. People who want graphics like FEAR's will be dissappointed, but once they 
 realize that in a game like this it's impossible to have graphics like that without a ****load 
 of slowdown in it. They are nearly perfect, some things look a little funky, but they are all forgivable 
 once you start playing.
  
  Gameplay-All about the multiplayer, you practice in the singleplayer, get your ass handed to you 
 in the multiplayer. Very intense gameplay all around. My favorite setting for war games is the 
 modern era, and that's one of the reasons I like this game so much. There are a ton of weapons 
 you can use and each weapon kit is balanced just right. None too powerful, none too weak, and they 
 each have a place on th battlefield. With games of 64 players going at it, the firefights get downright 
 narley at times. The squads and pretty cool, although not a lot of people i've seen use them much.
 
  
  Story-there isn't one... not a bad thing though in a game like this.
  
  Conclusion-Nonstop Intense gameplay and infinite Oh **** moments, this game keeps giving no matter 
 how long you play it, it never gets old. Whether your a fan of war games, mulitplayer games, or 
 just games in general you must own Battlefield 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henryfox
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 seems in many ways to be the official version of the Desert Combat mod for BF1942, 
 but there are some differences. Firstly, you don't just get to sit around blowing away the Opposition 
 , there are other forces to deal with instead.
  The singleplayer version of this game is somewhat limited as it was designed for online play, but 
 it can still be fun in its own way. There are also extra singleplayer maps out there and modifications 
 as well. The greatest problem for the singleplayer is that there is no real way to get medals, 
 upgrade your rank, or other stuff such as the unlocks without using some sort of cheat. This in 
 many ways is a major downside.
  The multiplayer game tends to be intense at its easiest there are a wide variety of servers around 
 with many different players, it's a matter of finding one that suits you. The greatest issue here 
 is one of software, if you don't have the right version you may find yourself in a vaccuum for 
 servers. This can be a little irritating.
  In general the gameplay will be very familiar to anyone who has played any of the Battlefield series 
 up to this point in time, once again, it is open slather on weapons and vehicles, if it is there 
 you can use it or drive it. The modern feel to the game is reflected in the weapons which are in 
 general, the most up to date available. Each one of these weapons has its own characteristics, 
 advantages and disadvantages, much like the real weapons. Be not confused, it does not have the 
 biting reality of the Tom Clancy games, but it is never the less, a whole lot of fun to play in 
 either mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 11:37 pm PT
Review:  I have to say after playing BF 1942-Vietnam.. BF2 is by far the best of them all.. The tactical 
 strength and replayablity is unlimited.. as well as small improvements in added abilities. (sprint 
 being one of them) .. The maps are not as large as in older BF's which makes the games quicker and 
 easier to engage in as well as the graphical improvement and stability. The single player AI is 
 weak though.. and should prove less than spectacular by any such measure.. even by older BF games. 
 The strength lies all in multiplayer and this it excels well. From server and game ranking to unlockable 
 items and upgrades to a strong multiplayer community. BF2 will be played for several years to come. 
 The best thing is no more archaic weaponry.. now its MODERN finally.. and best of all very balanced. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsup
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Great game With new gameplay generation I like it. Only thing i hate getting revived in front enemy. 
 It s game for people who like to play as team so it s better for u start inside a squad so u can 
 get alot more points. It s important that if u think to buy this game u better cheq ur systeme 
 requirement even wth 512 ram and low graphic resolution u will have a bad impression of the game 
 cuz it will lag so hard. I like the ranking systeme i m a 1start general i like finish round with 
 gold medals getting ribbon awards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunslingerMan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is finally here, whether it is a true sequel or just a nifty upgrade can be debatable, 
 but there is no denying the fact that Battefield 2 is just an awesome experience worthy of an fps 
 fans purchase . With superb looking visuals, explosive audio, and gameplay that you can't find 
 anywhere else battlefield 2 hit's the ball out of the ball park . In truth Battlefield 2 is the 
 third game in the series, the first one being Battlefield 1942, and the second game being Battlefield 
 : Vietnam, it doesn't matter though . Battfield 2 sticks with the battlefield formula . Not to 
 much has change, With battles up to 32 players in which the goal is to take the opponents tickets 
 to zero . This will be accomplished by killing of the enemy team, or taking control of all their 
 spawn points . This said it's the only game mode available in Battfield 2 ( conquest ) which is 
 disappointment to say the least . Even so it is still addicting . You will be able to play as 3 
 different factions . The United States, China or the Middle Eastern Coalition though it will feel 
 more like China and the Middle Eastern Coalition vs. The United States . Battlefield 2 looks just 
 simply put brilliant . The infantry looks highly detailed, and almost lifelike . Armor also looks 
 very much detailed, it's just a beauty to behold especially when they blow up peaces flying everywhere 
 it's just great . Environments are pumped up with a lot of detail, tress, grass, and rocks all 
 look top notch, but to make it better is the destructible environments . My complaints are the 
 following - the lack of any animation when a character is killed in a seat is unrealistic and really 
 makes the game feel unrealistic . Also the loading times are really big, and hefty it really brings 
 the experience down a bit, and bugs and crashes will occur a lot . Even so These stuff can be put 
 to rest when your playing battlefield 2
  
  battlefield 2's audio is excellent in every way possible . The way everything sound in the game 
 is just astonishing . Bullet's being shot, Tanks blowing up, Helicopters flying overhead, everything 
 is just brilliantly done in Battlefield 2 . Although the soundtrack is a big step down, it's basically 
 just rehashed music that only plays during loading times it's easily forgettable, unlike Battlefield 
 : Vietnam's mind blowing soundtrack . The amount of content for battlefield 2 is something that 
 can't be put down, Tons of weapons, classes, vehicles, and Maps is just something that will keep 
 you glued to you PC for days in and out . To it's own merit, even when battefield 2 is a little 
 bit slow in the action, it can still be a blast, at it's best it's just one of the most fun you 
 will have with just about any other game . One thing has been overlooked though, and it's the fact 
 that the game does not include any buddy/friends list which if you thinking of making any friends 
 on it then he or she will probably be forgotten .
  
  Overall : Battlefield 2 is a worthy follow up to the battlefield name . Although there hasn't been 
 a lot improved fact is that you won't find a better online multiplayer specific game on your PC 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinkyimp
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  this game imo is good but could have improved in some ares of the game like the singleplayer and 
 that u only get 12 maps at the start of the game, but the multiplayer is a blast for anyone who 
 like large scale maps and alot of people in a warfare
  
  Pros:
  -Huge multiplayer (64 players max!)
  -Slection of kitts to choose from (6 total)
  -The gun 
 portray the real things
  -Graphics and sound are outstanding
  
  Cons
  -Could have inproved Singleplayer
  -On a low-end system the games graphics dont fare well
  
 -some times people kick people for teamkilling when they dident do anything
  
  Asides the kicking part the game is overall good that anyone should enjoy jut make sure u have 
 a internet connection cuz the singleplayer SUX this is only a multiplayer game and nothing short 
 of that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holdenmcclure
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a great game. It offers continous playability with the ranking system, strategic 
 gameplay, atc. but it still has problems. The environment is very uninteractive, MANY bugs, and 
 surprisingly demanding hardware requirements with its outdated graphics. But overall it is a very 
 great game. I guarantee you there is no game like it. The main srevers out there seem to play Karkand 
 all of the time though. Making little use of it's capabilities. The things that are keeping this 
 game afloat are its players, which are slowly depleting. With more populsrity, this games status 
 should be near perfect, (wuth patches and all) .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 I know was supposed to be good, but not this good.
  
  Gameplay: Very amazing and fun. The AI is very intelligent compared to other games with this many 
 bots fighting at once. The gameplay has been improved very much since Vietnam and '42. Very fun 
 game.
  
  Graphics: The settings right now for me are ok but when they are maxed they are breathtaking. Very 
 nice water and effects. Characters look good too.
  
  Sound: Although the radio commanding gets annoying it is still nice to hear. Guns and explosions 
 sound great too. Value: This game is good for single player and great on multiplayer. Definate 
 buy for the online gamer.
  
  TILT: Still can be noticed as a Battlefield game but not much. So many changes almost makes this 
 its own game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3gam3r
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  Excellent gameplay!
  Very nice graphics!
  Great online game, lots of vehicles and 64 players barely any lag at all.
  
  I cant think of 
 anything else to say, you have to play it to believe it.
  
  =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) 
 =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) 
 =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 353535355353535
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 15, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a game in which you can play as a soldier in 3 different armies. You may play 
 as a United States Marine, a soldier in the Chinese People's liberation army, or as a soldier in 
 the fictional Middle Eastern Coalition. You first start by either logging on your gamespy account, 
 or creating on at gamespy. com. This is incredibly useful because all your account information and 
 achievements are saved on another computer so when you may need to uninstall your game, you can 
 still use weapons that you unlocked over the course of the game, as if you never deleted anything. 
 Battlefield 2 dosen't have a weapons selection like most other shooters. You choose between 7 kits. 
 These kits include Special Forces, Support, Assault, Medic, Engineer, Anti Tank, and Sniper. Playing 
 this game, I had endless hours of fun
  
  There is of course a dark side to this game as I mentioned in the Review Deck. Lots of systems 
 these days don't have the recommended system requirements. This often leads to crashes, slow-downs, 
 and other show-stopping problems. You should try upgrading your system to 1 GB of RAM to enjoy 
 this game, but when I did that, I could only play it on Medium to Low settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixty7velle
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 15, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  BF2 has become an instant favorite in my colletion. Mainly because of the more strategic approach 
 to Multiplayer mode. Most online FPS games are so fast spawn/fast kill that can't really strategize 
 with your team. It's also really cool that you don't really have to run-and-gun alot in this game, 
 but it still maintains alot of intensity. I haven't played many military shooters and it's easy 
 to say that this game might have turned me into an addict. The level's are HUGE, so you can really 
 set up well for attacks. Lots of sweet sniping spots, and really just alot of buildings to use 
 to gain advantage in any way. I've tried going back and playing Call of Duty 2, but BF2 is so much 
 more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sars99
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game now for about 450 hours. yes i know its sad. However i looked back 
 on this and thought how much fun i'd had doing it. I first started playing BF2 when a couple of 
 mates badgered me into it. The first thing that struck me was the potential teamwork, because at 
 first I didn't have that much experience of the game I would just run on my own and get annihilated. 
 The immense scale of the fighting is that never yet seen in the FPs world. You have control over 
 your character, land, sea and air vehicles. The skill of fighting on foot takes a bit of getting 
 used to, but provides a nice fast flowing frag fest, normally with lots of machine gun firing, 
 arty blasts and smoke. The armoured combat is probably the easiest thing in the game, with most 
 things being point and shoot, with a little reserved judgement for dip etc. But mastering the art 
 of tank vs tank combat can take awhile, it was first rumoured that the is a 1 hit kill on tanks 
 and it is true, getting this 1 hit kill is not easy at all! it is one of those skills in the game 
 that will take countless hours to do 100%. The next thing to try out is the planes. Fast, nimble 
 and deadly they can wreck havoc for armour, choppers, infantry and other planes alike. Once again 
 truly mastering the dogfight and accurate bombing takes practice, but once accomplished can make 
 you a very nice amount of points and kills quickly. last in the open battlefield are the choppers. 
 Primarilly there are two types: transport, and gunships. Transport choppers being nothing good 
 for providing you deaths. While the Attack Choppers being lethal in every right. Main features 
 of the gunships include pilot control rockets, then the gunner has a 30mm cannon and the deadly 
 TV guided missiles. Flying the choppers in a pain, when you first start out flying will include 
 banking one way and then crashing. Mastering flying will include loops, barrel rolls and other 
 illustrious manoveurs. So team up with a mate who can Gun and you have the basis for the best killing 
 machine in the game. Anti-infantry with the cannon, Anti-Armour with the rockets, and if your gunner 
 is good anti-armour/chopper/plane with the TV missile (yes shooting planes down with the TV missile 
 is possible) . All this leads to a very good experience if you have the right graphics and sound.
 
  
  The best thing that can be done with BF2 is to get with some mates who you can talk to, get in 
 a squad and get to the fray of the battle. With squad leaders as a mobile spawn point for his/her 
 squad the battlefield can be opened up into many different areas. even today i find myself in battles 
 that i havn't previously fought. This style of gameplay makes the game very long lasting and highly 
 enjoyable. Then to make you even more addicted is the rank and stats system. As you play the game 
 you get points for performing certain tasks (killing, healing teammates, capturing points) . with 
 these points comes rank, based on that of the American armed forces. At certain milestones you 
 get promoted to the next rank, this allows other players to see your new rank ingame, and also 
 allows you to 'unlock' new weapons for each of the combat classes. All in all i hope this has helped 
 you get an idea for what Battlefield2 is like and what can be achieved. Any critism is welcome, 
 as this is my first review and i hope to write more and help out those that want the game for them. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Wow! What an explosive experience this is! I love online multiplayer games and this one is my favourite. 
 It is a huge timekiller in my home, and I haven't really spent that much time on any other game 
 as much as I've spent on this. The reason of course being the incredible fast paced addictive online 
 fun from the moment you log on till you forget how long it's been. The real fun is with forming 
 squads and doing amazing tactics to outwit your enemies. Truly fantastic even for beginners if 
 you want to just go berserk. Great patches have brought it up to perfection, so nows the time to 
 get it if you haven't experienced what a real online game is all about! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micknator
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  you could say its just the next first person shooter but its more then that. its not only the new 
 weapons and kits but the ranking system, the commander and squad modes, the big maps, unlocks, 
 massive multi-player, etc. the thing i like the most, is the sort of addiction but then in a positive 
 way. the thing i don't like is that the single-player is not worked out that well. i say that should 
 be fixed. but battlefield 2 is more then just single-player, its huge fights with people from the 
 other side of the planet and THATS cool, lol. also the squad mode is very cool, its easy to know 
 what you can do on the battlefield beside of fighting with just the thought of winning. also the 
 commander mode is good only that they don't get points for kills, thats a reason for me to don't 
 do commander. but all simplified in 1 sentence: a BIG classic shooter with the best of the best 
 game-play. bring it on soldier! lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sargez117
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  I love this game, it's a little bit lacking in the area of single player, but the immense action 
 of a great multi-player game will keep you coming back for more. It is truly the greatest multi-player 
 FPS to date.
  
  First of all, the controls are really simple for such a complex game. Commands are normally simple, 
 they could have tweaked the sensitivity on the Helicopters and planes just a bit, but once you 
 get used to pitching and rolling instead of your typical rotate to move in different directions. 
 Squads were a very innovative idea when this game came out, unfortunately, people almost never 
 use them. I've been in full servers with 64 people and only about 10 people are in squads. Commanders 
 are also a very good idea in the game, but most people don't use it properly, they always just 
 run around like they normally do and never use the commands to their teams advantage. Every once 
 in awhile, you'll come across a good commander who almost never shoots anyone but uses his com 
 to run artillery strikes. Classes in the game are very nice, most people have a different preference, 
 making the game very diverse. Most of the time though, the most important unit in the game, the 
 medic, on single or multi-player, never do their job properly. When I play as medic, I almost always 
 risk my life to save someone, but most people don't do that. The diversity of weapons is also nice, 
 shock paddles for the medic, c4 for the Special Forces, rocket launcher for the Anti Tank. All 
 are great.
  
  Graphics are nice, not quite as nice as they could be, but people look like people, and thats all 
 I really ask. Terrain is a little bit muddy but i can live with that. Lag is one of the biggest 
 problems this game has. I know all games have it, but this was quite ridiculous. You almost always 
 spend the first ten minutes of play trying to get around with all the lag thats going on around 
 you. But after that, the game is smooth, and servers are always nice to have.
  
  Bottom line this is a truly great game, and I strongly recommend getting it if you've got the computer 
 to run it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDominant
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 3, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Best Game Ever...... The game is very Realistic, a great game if you like squad based games, Patches 
 have been released to make the game fun and fixed the problems. There are the expansion packs such 
 as special forces, but its not an essential besides maybe it giving you new weapons and 2 good 
 maps. Cons- Only that EA makes it, which brings it down a little
  
  Just a great game, would recommend it to first person shooter players and war game players. Would 
 not recommend the two new expansion packs, example- armored fury, dont have the game but almost 
 everyone says its not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarXPS
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 3, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  Well, when I first picked up this game I didnt really know what to expect, mostly when u think 
 of a pc game u think of a first person shooter or a RTS game. Today first person shooters dominate 
 the pc market today, having not played the battlefield series before I thought I might give battlefield 
 2 a shot. So having bought and installed the game I was pretty much thrown into the 21st century 
 battlefield. My first impression of this game was this is going to be very addictive. Being that 
 battlefield 2 was a multiplayer online game made it so much more enjoyable and fun! There are three 
 factions in the game The United Sates Marine Corps, and the Chinese Army, I think the USMC was 
 a favourite because more than 50 per cent of the players online were Americans. The fact that you 
 could use VOIP in the game was a huge plus, because that meant u could communicate with other players 
 on your squad and help with winning the round! The most important aspect of this game is the game 
 play and graphics they are both superb. This game is a must have for any gamer despite not having 
 played the battlefield 2 series before. If u have not bought this game yet buy it now soldier! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mi33ke
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 1, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  THis is a great first person shooter, If you interested in games like Call of duty 2 or medal of 
 honor, i advise you to get it.
  THere are lots of maps, for multyplayer and singe player. The AI's however are fairly hard.
  
 However, the game takes a bit to load a map, and i have spent half the time loading. Those are 
 the bad things about it.
  The graphics are fair, and the gameplay is great. This is excelent becasue there is no blood, and 
 i would call it E10+. There arent too many glitches.
  They have vehicles like, cruisers, boats, planes, choppers, tanks, and so on. over all this game 
 i gave an 8.9, that is very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krikri93
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 1, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  I swear iv never seen a online shoot out this good , i just bought it 3 days ago and im already 
 addicted to it 100% its a game i think every fps addict should give ago.
  There are 3 forces :
  -MEC (middle-eastern coalition)
  -USMS (united-states marine coalition 
 )
  -Chinese people's army
  
  Each force has their own weapons vehicules .And the soldier kits have been upgraded ,the soldier 
 kits and each soldier kit has their own special weapon or abili tyfor this game are :
  -Special forces (spec ops)
  the spec ops have a C4 explosive that can make massive damage ,pu 
 a few C4 on a bridge and it will explode to peices
  -Sniper
  Instead of the scout in bf 1942 , the new name is the sniper. The sniper has mines that you put 
 on the ground ,very effective if a squad assaults you.
  -Assault
  One of the most effective kits in the game, this kit is used for assaults on a flag. The assault 
 kit has a grenade launcher , very helpful if you find yourself infront of a tank.
  -Medic
  The medic is an important kit that a team will need on the battlefield .Its used to heal people 
 and revive them if they are critacly wounded.
  -Engineer
  The engineer is quite usefull on the battefield because he can fix any ttype of vehicle with his 
 wrench.
  -Anti-Tank
  Another helpful kit is the anti-ank .Make sure you have anti-taks with you or you can easily get 
 killed by a tank or any other kind of vehicle.
  
  This is just the kits.
  
  Now when you play online on ranked servers ,you can get medals and get up from rank to rank to 
 the ultimate rank. And the ranks can also get you locked weapons.
  
  There is too much to explain, just take my advice fps addicts and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyosukeugc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  You know when I first picked up BF2 I wasn't quite sure what to expect. I was somewhat impressed 
 as I had spent a few hours playing the demo before actually aquiring the game itself.
  
  Now I was looking for a game for its multi-player capabilities, not the single-player mode so I 
 barely enough touched the single player campaigns at all. The gameplay for BF2 was astounding to 
 me. The netcode and reaction time/hit boxes, everything I had grownt o hate about an FPS since 
 the release of CS: Source was all taken back when playing BF2. I had been used to CS 1.6 and other 
 HL FPS games. While change is nice, I just wasn't happy with the aspects of CSS so I was looking 
 for something better and I think I have found it.
  
  BF2 is good for any gaming level. If you're new to an FPS or you're a seasoned veteran of them, 
 it's a great game to keep you hooked in for hours on end. The fact thata round doesn't last for 
 15 mins (it can, but not likely) and lasts for more around an horu on alot of servers, makes gameplay 
 wonderfula nd you actually feel the whole teamwork aspect of it alot of times. Having a commander 
 and Squad leaders, having several different tactics to yor advantage, including Artillary and Fighter 
 Jets/Choppers. It's the all in 1 FPS we have been waiting for for years.
  
  I definately recommend it to anyone who has yet to play it. With the release of BF2142 it's going 
 to be interesting to see how well they can improve on something so great already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffinman392
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  I will probly come back and add some more but for now a brief review.
  
  1st,
  This game has some of the best online gameplay available to online FPS fans.
  2nd,
  At a low 
 setting, you can run it on a not-so decent machine.
  3rd,
  The unlockables keep you trying and trying some more.
  
  The only thing that kinda takes this 
 game down a notch is the glitches, therefore patches.
  
  Another thing is that it is mostly online so those of you who have dial-up (or no) internet connection, 
 sorry too bad...
  
  YOU GAMERS SHOULD HAVE A DECIENT INTERNET CONNECTION!
  SO DONT GIVE THE GAME NO FLAK FOR YOUR SORE BEING!
  
  noobs... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thesimsfrk111
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is VERY fun.
  The multiplayer is AWESOME and its graphics are pretty damn good!
  Single-player is fun, but 
 only buy this game if you really have an internet connection, thats how you have count-less HOURS 
 of FUN!!! (DUH yOU HAVE AN INTERNET CONNECTION...)
  They should make a mobile version of this...
  That would be cool, on your cell, playing BF2 online.
 
  ZOMG I can only imagine...
  Well anyways...
  It rules.
  Don't miss this experience.
  Or die!!!
  Lol j/k
  well
  maybe not...
  Hmmm...
  Ok you won't DIE if you miss it...
 
  You'll just go insane.
  P. S. Sorry about rambling, I hate minimum 100 words thingy here on gamespot. : ( SUM IT UP SENTENCE: 
 Battlefield 2 rocks hard-core, buy it dammit, BUY IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewpock1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game i have ever played in my life! The graphics in this game are GREAT! 
 The online is great! Every thing about this game is just awesome! EA well done......... well done....... 
 I know this review is old but this game is just well done. The only thing you need for the great 
 game is a really good PC. It needs to be fast and very powerful. Before buying this game look at 
 the PC requirements that it needs. This game is great online when you have other friends playing 
 it, If you have other friends playing it then download teamspeak, At www. goteamspeak. com. Once 
 more time Great job EA. You just made a game no other gamer will every forget! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phast007
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game i have ever played in my life! The graphics in this game are GREAT! 
 The online is great! Every thing about this game is just awesome! EA well done......... well done....... 
 I know this review is old but this game is just well done. The only thing you need for the great 
 game is a really good PC. It needs to be fast and very powerful. Before buying this game look at 
 the PC requirements that it needs. This game is great online when you have other friends playing 
 it, If you have other friends playing it then download teamspeak, At www. goteamspeak. com. Once 
 more time Great job EA. You just made a game no other gamer will every forget! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danigozne
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  This is the kind of game the more you play it, the more you love it and at the same time, the more 
 you hate it it.
  
  Good things on it:
  
  Being able to play with jets, helicopters, tanks, cars, and different kind of soldiers with different 
 weapons, it's simply unbelievable.
  Sound is excellent, probably the best thing in the game. The gameplay superb, and the graphics 
 excellent (even though the maps are huge) . This is definitely by far the best online game I've 
 ever played.
  
  The bad things:
  
  Despite it's technically amazing, after 4 500 mb patches, still has major issues like server crashing 
 or even the game itself crashing. The unlock system is designed for hardcore gamers, for I've played 
 180 hours, and i just unlocked 5 out to 14 weapons... So I guess to unlock all of them you must 
 play about 600 hours...
  Hit detection it's ok, but not perfect (i'm not 100% this isn't because cheats) .
  
  Find the 
 right server, be lucky to avoid crashes, find a good squad (if you're not into a clan, that may 
 be very hard) , choose a map that suites your style, be inspired with the weapons, and 1 out of 
 3 days you play it will be an excellent experience. If you're ready to face all this, I'd recommend 
 this game to everyone, It doesn't matter if you like FPS, you'll somewhere find your place in this 
 game (in the top of a hill with a sniper rifle, into a tank, being the commander, or just hiding 
 like a dog into the bushes) . Get ready for frustation though. This is not a 5 minutes time game, 
 you'll have to spend a lot of time on it, to start really enjoy it, but it's really worthy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nbapro4ever1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is one of the greatest ever computer games. It has innovative gameplay, excellent sound, fun 
 vehicles and squad based play. If at least this doesnt impress you the multyplayer will. Up to sixty 
 four players online with excellent maps and kits. And even if you arent that good at multyplayer 
 its still tons of fun on single player. You cant help but like it. Its soooo good. Though the game 
 requires a powerful PC it would still run on most machines on the low video setting. My card isnt 
 even in the list of supported video cards but it still runs fine. EA makes great games but from 
 all of them this would be my NUMBER 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 22, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  I bought this game a while ago and you need a nice comp to run it and get the full experience but 
 all and all this game is my number 1 online sanctuary. I love this game with all my heart and hope 
 to die.
  
  This game allows you to chose team, squad, gun, vehicle, and station almost every time playing... 
 in other online shooters normally its a gun and a team and nothing else matters but the objectives... 
 in this game the objectives are clear to capture all the flags and hold them until 200 reaches 
 -0 and the other teams points go up by the second per flag. Each game lasts about an hour to a 
 half an hour which gives a great experience timezone. So just go out and buy this game right now 
 its a classic if you have the system requirements that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PCgamer154
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 22, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  This game is 1 of the 2 best games i've ever played the other one is Battlefield 2142 (See my Battlefield 
 2142 review in the reader reviews archive for Battlefield 2142) . This game is awsome period. Okay 
 lets get to the raiting.
  
  Gameplay-10 The best multiplayer ever for a franchise!!!
  
  Graphics-9 Like i said in my BF2142 review you can see good detail.
  
  Sound-9 Not as good 
 as BF2142 but still good.
  
  Value-10 Get it now if you don't have it, it's now $40!!
  
  Tilt-9 The crosshair moves pretty smoothly
  
  Overall-9.5 Superb Like I said it's 1 of 
 the 2 best pc games i've ever played so far!!!
  
  *BF2142=Battlefield 2142 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saw100
Rating: 6.9
Date: Oct 21, 2006 12:58 am PT
Review:  Good-looking? Yes. Fun? No. Battlefield has lost it's spirit. In prievous games weapons were more 
 well-desinged, since only eapon you can hit enemies in BF2 is sniper. My brother's nine-year old 
 friend played this game and he was carrying machine gun in the game. Suddenly, he faced an enemy 
 with submachine gun. They both tried to shoot each other, but brotha', they did not get one stinking 
 hit! Enemy did shoot and shoot but he didn't hit. After 30 seconds that enemy got killed. What 
 a rip-off! Enemies can't even hit you. They don't work smart or do a team-job. Usually it's your 
 allies that work smart. Enemies play hide and seek while your allies capture places.
  
  They say that BF2 is best BF game ever, but I must protest this; it's not true. If you've played 
 BF 1942 and BF2 you should notice what mistakes they have made in BF2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShraZ_Zy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 19, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  I have got to say that BF1942 was my favorite FPS multiplayer online. You had to love the big maps 
 and vehicles you could get into. Battlefield Vietnam made me dissapointed as nothing was new or 
 revolutionary. Battlefield 2 was a great comeback, the squad options, commander abilities, and 
 interaction got even better. The commander can see anything that is happening via a satellite picture 
 and can order: artillery, supplies, UAV, vehicle drop (real useful) , and order squad leaders to 
 locations. The gfx also got updated and look really clean. BF2 is a great game but the jets due 
 kind of ruin it. I hope in the near future DICE brings back some navy ships fighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrontLineForce
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 18, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  With it's action packed levels on 64 player servers, Battlefield 2 has been chosen one of the most 
 decent, addictive, but kickin First person shooter for online gameplay. You may pick your team 
 as the Chinese army, the MEC (Middle Eastern Colaberation) , or the U. S army itself. Each team has 
 it's own weapon of choice, vehicle of choice and even it's own voice actors. Accurately enough, 
 these vehicles are based upon what these armies actually use. When you pick a team you can choose 
 between 6 weapon classes from Special Forces, Sniper, Assault, Medic, Engineer and last but not 
 least an Anti-tank class. This goes for all teams, mind you! There is, unfortunatley, only one 
 gameplay mode. There are flags based around the map you are playing and you have to either regain 
 control from the opposing force or take it from a neutral point. The more players at the capture 
 point... the quicker the capture bar will go up. Race around the levels in Hummers, vans, buggies, 
 jeeps, tanks and even planes and helicopters to take control of each point. If your team loses, 
 there is even music to indicate if you have lost or won..... aswell as the sentence in the middle 
 of the screen saying wether you did or didn't. When you select a team, you can either become a 
 Commander or join a squad.. or if you really want to be brave or boring.. become a lone soldier. 
 When you're in the Commander mode.. you can place UAV or scanners to scan the area for enemy forces. 
 If you see them, click the Artillery button to blow them to pieces. That's one step for getting 
 closer to victory anyway. You can, aswell, place vehicle or supply crates to your team mates for 
 they can take the vehivle or restock on health and ammo with the crate. With it's beautiful engine, 
 watch dog fights and helicopters blast the spawn points from a distance. You can hear the thundering 
 missiles and gun fire echo around the map. But, here comes the bad news. The server menu, in wich 
 you obviously join a server to play on, can be very slow... even on a top of the range PC. Loading 
 times for the map is riddiculous, but you still have music to listen to whilst waiting a good 5 
 minutes. On one of the menu's, there is a data menu where you can see how your progress is going 
 for moving up a rank. Moving up a rank will give you a selection of unlocking a weapon which is 
 shown on the 'BFHQ' menu. All is well for this game. Oh yes.. I completley forgot.... more bad news. 
 When you have selected a weapon.. you cannot just blast your enemy form a good distance like Counter 
 Strike: Source or any other first person shooter. You have to either go prone... or duck to get 
 a good few shots ninto your enemy's chest. Guns are, in fact, inaccurate.. which can be extremely 
 annoying. I'm sure if your running around a bombed outt own in Iraq or a muddy swamp in China.... your 
 bullets would be piercing the enemy pretty accuratley. By the way, those 2 places I mentioned above 
 are maps in the game which I'm sure you'd love to look out for! So that's about it... Battlefield 
 2 has a strong and promising approach to you people out there who love first person war games! 
 Or even if you don't... you'll still love to buy the game! It's great fun and extremly enjoyable. 
 If you have other collections of the Battlefield saga.... and you don't have this... definetly buy 
 this game. Oh, also! Look out for Battlefield 2142! It's out now! Good luck soldiers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxibhoy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 17, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Oh, Wow! What a game this is. The best and worst game on the planet.
  
  And this is coming from a player with almost 400 hours worth of experience on this game. A player 
 who has worked his ass off to get 30,000 flipping points! Man oh man, Bf2 is a blast. Well, it 
 was. It could of gotten the perfect 10 for me if it wasn't for the fact that the game is a rescource 
 hog. A big fat rescource hog. You'll need over 12GB of space, you'll have to be willing for the 
 game to slow your computer down, weaken it and if you have a laptop, get ready to wait 20 minutes 
 for loading and then get a connection error by the end of it. If im to be honest, it's best you 
 don't get this game now, just buy BF2142. Most of the issues are resolved in that version of the 
 game, which to me, is the better version of the game. You have to forgive them though, once you 
 do get in your playing the best online game ever made. EVER! That's why it get's such a high score 
 from me. You can laugh, cry, jump and scream, enjoy it. Everything about the gameplay is perfect, 
 it is a tad umbalanced though. I'll admit that, you can be a Fighter jet's **** on a regular basis 
 if you don't be careful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smghottie
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 was a great game. The expansions were great additions. Battlefield Vietnam was 
 a good game. The problem is Vietnam was that it made no additions. All the game did was change 
 the maps, weapons and vehicles with no change in overall gameplay. Battlefield 2 came back... hard. 
 They developed new ways of fighting including squads, commander mode, and rank. These are all very 
 large improvements for online players of the game. I have been playing this game sine the day it 
 came out. However its weaknesses are the same as the previous Battlfields. Finding servers is just 
 as annoying and hard, as well as the menu being slow and pathetci. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dubbly
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is one of the greatest ever computer games. It has innovative gameplay, excellent sound, fun 
 vehicles and squad based play. If at least this doesnt impress you the multyplayer will. Up to sixty 
 four players online with excellent maps and kits. And even if you arent that good at multyplayer 
 its still tons of fun on single player. You cant help but like it. Its soooo good. Though the game 
 requires a powerful PC it would still run on most machines on the low video setting. My card isnt 
 even in the list of supported video cards but it still runs fine. EA makes great games but from 
 all of them this would be my NUMBER 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-steelleg
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 13, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  never been one to play video games too often, but this one has up to date graphics, great sound, the 
 best multiplay system ,many of my friends has seen ,from guys in their twenty's to others in their 
 fifties keep updating maps and weapons. but please correct problems you find with special forces, can't 
 play it on my computer. the download from the disk leaves necessary data out, and since trying to 
 load, i can no longer play wake island, due to some problem concerning this updated version. i look 
 forward to hearing from you concerning finding a solution, i have loaded it twice, and gotten the 
 same message of lost data both times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saftar
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  TEH BEST. ITS GREAT TO GO OUT AND PWN SOME N00BS AGAIN yeah i really like it ive been playing for 
 forever seems like forever now and ive loved every min. wow buffer for 100 words now... buffer buffer 
 buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer 
 buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer vbuffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer 
 buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer 
 buffer buffbuffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer 
 buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer 
 buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer 
 buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrozenVirus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 11, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Battlefield 2? Apart from the fact that it's one of the best shooting/action 
 and multiplayer online games around. The game has amazing graphics that (if you set the graphics 
 on high) look just about as realistic as they would in real life. Like most shooting games, Battlefield 
 2 does not take a very long time to learn and gets very addictive over time. Although there are 
 only 10 or so maps without any expansion packs, the maps are so huge that you'll take the entire 
 time exploring for places to hide and places to plan out an ambush. The fact that you can apply 
 to become the commander of your team is another aspect that gives Battlefield 2 an edge over most 
 other shooting games out there. When commander of a team, you can use UAV scans to find enemy units, 
 drop supplies for your teammates if they need them, and even order an artillery strike to bombard 
 a certain area on the map. There are more than 30 different vehicles you can get into the game 
 (including tanks, APCs, helicopters, boats etc.) and even more weapons (including assault rifles, 
 shotguns, anti-tank rocket launchers) . You can also unlock new weapons for your unit classes if 
 you play well enough in the single player battles. Battlefield 2 is a very popular online game 
 (maps can hold up to 64 people) and you're always gurranteed to find a group of people to play 
 a game with. Pretty much the only flaw I can find the game is that it doesn't have an actual single-player 
 campaign, although all of the instant battle maps have a little story to them. My only advice to 
 you is: GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  SIMPLY PUT:
  battlefield 1942, the first game to offer up the possiblity of 64 players on a servre, but out 
 side of lans the net code wasn't stable enough to support 64 players online truely, and at that 
 it didn't have enough vehicles anyway. then came the mod desert combat, what a glorious mod, it 
 ran better that the original game for some reason, and had better levels and gameplay. then battlefield 
 vietnam, basically a full price retial stand alone expansion to 1942, this game to was out done 
 by one of it's own mods, POE, point of existence. that mod ran better, had better maps, better 
 vehicles, and more of them. now BF2, this game is in many aspects the retial facelifted version 
 of desert combat with less vehicles, but a persistant online avatar, and squads. so how does bf2 
 compare to the original two bf games. quite simply put it's the quality we should have gotten all 
 along, the title was for the most part finished, and had fixed 90 percent of the original flaws. 
 though it brought in new ones. though this is by no means the perfect multiplayer experience it 
 does offer a giant creative sandbox of online play that no other subscrition free game does. PROS:
 
  Great visuals especially for the time, plus greatly stabler online play, 64 players is now fesible 
 and fun, scaling maps offer better vehicle and spawn point placement for different amounts of people, 
 probably the first addition that jumped out at me was the improvement in the gun play, yes being 
 a footsoldier is not only fesible and fun, it's something you may choose to do over pilot a jet, 
 it's quite a new experience, it's what it should have been. squad mechanic, and commander mechanic 
 are fantastic and will/should become a new standard. vehicles are much better, looking and handling. 
 persistent online presence, unlockables. some great levels. smarter bots.
  
  CONS:
  system hog, name tag glitch, on/off patching. control piont placement on some maps. certian maps 
 are to wide open with two few vehicles. only one play mode, some bland levels. 16 bot only single 
 player. still a bandwith hog of a game. bad servre browser, i mean for a multiplayer game this 
 is important and they didn't give it alot of thought, servre brower glitches that required you 
 to shut down the game. crashes. THE MEAT:
  
  (this is my raving so if you just want to know how it breaks down skip this)
  
  ok so this 
 game is by no means perfect and to this day it needs patching, more so than games like cs source, 
 cs source gets updates, like new models and stuff, bf2 just gets patches and some of them have 
 brought down entire servres, like one that invalidated the expansion packs maps and unlocks so 
 if you got on a servre and it loaded anything special forces the servre went down, yeah some how 
 that patch made it out and it was almost a week before it was fixed. you can no longer jump and 
 shoot, meant to prevent bunny hopping, as if the fact it kills your stamina isn't enough. the list 
 of redifines and mess ups goes on, and yet the name tag glitch persists last i checked, in this 
 glitch it marks friendlies and foes and foes and friendlies. good way to get kicked killing teammates 
 and being to friendly with the bad guys. yeah i really hate that one. like ten patches and three 
 expansions later and it's still there. they also have a login remember option and for me and my 
 friends this remember option just messes up your password every time so you have to retype it why 
 even have a remember option, oh yeah and 2142 has the same problem. partical effects royally suck 
 still (excluding the smoke for smoke nades) . vehicles still don't show damage, lots of the little 
 annoyances like that are still there.
  
  ok i do love this game, what other game can you and a squad of 5 other guys traverse behind enemy 
 lines capturing control pionts and talking to each other at the same time. and it is behind enemy 
 lines because with up to 32 people on the other team you need to stay covert, even if you are a 
 well oiled machine of a squad undue attention isn't good. when this game is working it is fantastic 
 that is all i can say i don't miss any other options like a ctf mode or death match mode, i just 
 love it to much to care, like as a sniper knowing my squad has aquired a follower (enemy) and laying 
 well place clamore to cover our behinds, only moments later hearing them explode seeing i got a 
 kill and knowing i didn't just help myself but my team. sneaking through a bambo swamp, flying 
 in guns blazing on a black hawk with two mini gun and a couple of support gunners shredding the 
 radious around the soon to be our control piont. when you get a good group of strangers using the 
 viop and you work good you'll have the best online gaming of your life till the squad breaks up. 
 that's my only problem i the clumbsy brower makes the favorite system and friend marking very hard. 
 so you could have a great experience and play two weeks before anything similar happens agian. 
 the persistent online character thing is fantastic it keeps you coming back for more and more, 
 unlocking more weapons and badges so you can be general. it is awsome. all the weapons handle and 
 sound uniquely. i still feel like land vehicles could use a little work. the ragdoll though bad 
 is a great improvement over canned animations, one example i was running along side a aluminum 
 fence when a explosion on the other side propelled a former teammates corpse over the fence, and 
 it landed infornt of me, i desided i would go around the long way so as to be a little more sneaky. 
 the awsome fact that his corpse tipped me off to trouble is subtle but awsome. i love the planes 
 in hear i love looking up in the sky to see a plane that was heading right at me pull away to deliver 
 his load on my face, it's just so cool each and every time i have yet to tire of it in two years. 
 basically this is the game that battlefield 1942 promised to be though flawed this game is far 
 more polished than anything dice has ever put out in the past. so take that to heart when playing 
 it. try the demo if you like that the real game is three times as good.
  
  THE BREAKDOWN
  
  GAMEPLAY
  i thought this games gameplay, though limited to conquest, is fantastic and unique, 
 the massive number of players really rings home when your squad is defending a pivitole control 
 point fending off wave after wave. the built in teamplay features help this game so much and i'm 
 supprised no other game has featured any this developed before.
  10
  GRAPHICS
  I think the graphics are all around good but the particle effects/explosions really leave alot 
 to be desired. along with the lack of vehicle damage, and the farely static enviroments i'll have 
 to give it a nine.
  9
  SOUND
  deffinately the best sounding battle field game, this game is really a great sounding game all 
 around.
  9
  VALUE
  its so massive it's almost a mmo, but with no monthly fee. so good. 9
  REVIEWERS TILT
  i love 
 this game but i can't prase i like ut 2004 because it just isn't as well rounded.
  9
  
  overall
  9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SavageOneill
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  With a large assortment of vehicles and weapons it makes the most amazing combat game that I could 
 find, it has the most amazing game I've seen yet. Though it does not have a campaign or any form 
 of storyline, and the fact that playing online is the only way to get the most out of the game, 
 until you get the expansion that adds plenty of weapons and vehicles and a full campaign. The original 
 is still a really amazing game. When playing online, there are a huge amount of rooms, even with 
 the most strict filter, you will get the a large amounts of rooms. There are large scale battles 
 with around 32 players. And the occasional empty room where you can practice on some of the more 
 difficult aspects of the game, like flying. It's not too hard but it takes a good amount of practice 
 to stop crashing into the ground, or finding yourself in the middle of a large body of water and 
 have to kill yourself in order to prevent spending the rest of the game swimming. Vehicles arent 
 to hard to drive, and the only really stupid part about it is hitting something and hearing this 
 very irritating sound that just makes me wan't to scream, Still it's better to cruise to your base 
 in a jeep than to have to walk, and probably get shot, or ran over, or blown up by artillery, or 
 even crashed into by someone who dosn't particularly have the skill to fly. I't is quite a demanding 
 game on a system, I myself can't play it, but I know people who have it and are able to get access 
 to it every once in awhile. And there are only a handful of video cards that can run it well, even 
 when meeting the memory requirements. But even on medium the graphics are nearly unbeatable, Which 
 isn't too surprising with a brand like EA, which still continues to amaze me in all of their amazing 
 games. The expansion is a bit of a disappointment, I'm not saying that I would rather not have 
 it at all, but there are some things that would have in the original, although I do love the 4 
 wheeler that it includes. Like the intro, in the original it's an amazing intro, I would even watch 
 it for no reason, but in special forces, it's not bad, but it's soo long and it's pretty much just 
 a bunch of people shooting, well the same with both, but it is still not nearly as good as the 
 original. Either way it is the most amazing game ever, If your planning to get it, just do, if 
 you have it, well good for you. It's easily a 9.8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tardog_daman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 6, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I was always skeptic of the BATTLEFIELD series. I wasn't too fond of 1942, and Vietnam wasn't ever 
 that exciting to me. But when Battlefield 2 was released, I was definitely intrigued, to say the 
 least. I'd grown up with a deep interest in weapons and warfare, so I *had* to try this game.
 
  
  And I must say, it blew my ****ing mind. I'll tell you why. Battlefield 2 offers a whole new element 
 of realism that hasn't been matched by any game to date. I'm serious, nothing would come close.
 
  
  Example: When an explosive goes off *near* you, you hear a sharp pinging noise (obviously the deafening 
 that would happen in reality) , and your screen goes fuzzy and your movements becoem disorientated 
 for the moment, very cool.
  
  Yes, the game has a lot of things I could nitpick at, but I'd like to go over the better things 
 first.
  
  --Graphics --
  Sweet Jesus. Never have I seen such beautiful graphics whilst blowing everything to kingdom come. 
 There's some jaw-dropping scenery to view whilst you run/drive/fly across the field of battle, 
 and sometimes you'll wonder why you can't lay down your guns and just marvel at the scenery.
  
  The weapon models look fantastic, nearly perfect down to every little detail (safety lock on 
 automatic rifles, etc.) . The character models look great, with obvious signs of expert 3D skeletons 
 behind the skins.
  
  The vehicles... oh god... the vehicles. They look so ****ing awesome! Every vehicle has been modelled 
 to look *exactly* like they would in reality. When I saw the US Jet vehicle, I nearly crapped my 
 pants, that's how awesome it looked.
  
  --Gameplay --
  I really can't comment on it. It's an expansive FPS with a lot to do, but sadly limited to a conquest 
 mode like it's predecessor Battlefield 1942. Online play, which I've only played for ten hours 
 or so, is awesome fun, though a LOT of the people there are idiots.
  
  --Sounds --
  Beautiful. Advice: If you haven't got a Creative Audigy, go buy one. The sounds, with bass cranked 
 up, are beautiful. The bangs, booms, and footsteps sound as real as they can get on a war-based 
 FPS.
  
  The voiceovers are pretty cool, and they don't repeat the same line (like in Counterstrike for 
 instance) . As there are two foreign sides in the game, the voices have been recorded in THESE LANGUAGES. 
 So if you're playing China for instance, whenever you use the radio, it'll be in Chinese.
  
  --Realism --
  The game is real, very real. But there's one big thing that ruins the realism 
 of it: The shooting. Why? I'll tell you.
  
  The aiming system is seriously flawed. If you play as a sniper, for example, and take a shot AIMED 
 AT THE CENTER OF THEIR CHEST, it won't kill them, and will take a second (or third) shot to down 
 them. Point-blank combat is worse with a pistol, as it can sometimes take five-sixs shots up close 
 to down an enemy.
  
  With that said though, there is a realism mod available for download on Gamespot, so that'll fix 
 the shooting flaws.
  
  --Final --
  Battlefield 2 is definitely the new age of FPS, and anybody who enjoyed Counterstrike/Battlefield 
 1942 will ****ing love this.
  
  Don't hesitate. Buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FastrBlastr
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is Fun only because you can drive planes cars jeeps tanks and alot others. It also is 
 a very big multiplier. Its 4th must played on Xfire.1st is world of warcraft-counter strike source-Cod2. 
 one problem i had with it is that with the sniper i aimed right at a guys head and shoot and he 
 didnt die. But its awsome because you can blow the heck out of stuff with bombs c4 nades and more. 
 If you looking for a game that is just shooting and not so much blowing stuff up id go with cod, 
 cod uo , or my favorite and 3rd most played cod2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Umgar
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 gets it right on every category that a tactical shooter should. The action is fast 
 and non-stop, assortment of weapons and vehicles is vast, and there are many maps and map-sizes 
 to fit your preferred style of play (the 16 player Daqing is a very different experience from the 
 64 player Daqing) . Thanks to the wide array of classes, weapons, and vehicles there are many different 
 ways to enjoy BF2; switching from an Infantry grunt capping flags to a fighter pilot on air support 
 duty is like playing two different games.
  
  If your computer is a cutting edge you will really enjoy BF2 as it employs some very nice optional 
 graphics effects for higher end machines. If your computer is barely cutting it then you probably 
 want to skip BF2 for now as it will be an exercise in frustration more than anything. If you're 
 like me you fall somewhere in the middle. If that's the case then be sure to check out the tweak 
 guide for BF2 as it will help you squeeze every possible frame out of the game without sacrificing 
 too much on graphic quality: http://www. tweakguides. com/BF2_1. html For all its great qualities, 
 BF2 does have a few flaws. These are things that new players probably won't even notice, but as 
 you become a veteran player they will really start to annoy you:
  
  1) Long load times.
  Even with a good machine be prepared to stare at the loading screen a good while. This becomes 
 especially frustrating if you are disconnected from a server or the game crashes (which will happen 
 occasionally) .
  
  2) Voice alert spamming.
  Quite frustrating. Anytime anything is said in the game or anything important happens (your team 
 loses control of a flag for instance) there is a voice alert for it. On large maps where there 
 are 32 people on your team, this essentially means that you will be hearing constant voice alerts 
 non-stop throughout the entire game ( Enemy aircraft! Medic! UAV is on line! I've got hostile armor! 
 ... etc, etc for 20 minutes) . Of course you can turn this completely off in sound options, but therein 
 lies the problem my friends. You have to turn it *completely* off. Some of those voice commands 
 are actually useful (like the one that alerts you that your side has just lost control of a flag) . 
 Why the designers didn't allow you to pick and choose which kinds of alerts you hear and which 
 you don't is beyond me.
  
  3) Un-lockable content.
  This is one of my pet peeves of video games. Now don't get me wrong, I think unlockable content 
 is cool - as long as the content doesn't alter the balance of the game. If, for instance, the unlockable 
 guns in BF2 we're similar to the ones available to all in function, and maybe just looked different 
 and functioned slightly different, then I would be fine with that. However, that is very much not 
 the case here. Some of the unlockable guns in BF2 are must have weapons if you want to play a certain 
 class well. Take the M95 sniper rifle for instance, it's the only sniper rifle that can shoot *through* 
 cockpit glass. That means a helicopter pilot who is sitting in his ride waiting for his gunner 
 to respawn is fair game for a sniper toting this gun. Pretty important weapon to have right? Well 
 sorry, you're going to have to unlock it. Then you have an infantry unlock which gives you a flash 
 grenade ala' Counter-Strike. It is the *only* blinding weapon in the game, and it's an unlock. 
 I could go on but I think you see my point.
  
  Despite these annoyances in game design and balance, BF2 is still incredibly fun to play. If for 
 some reason you're still loading up Counter-Strike Source when you get that tactical shooter itch 
 stop punishing yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amun101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 5, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, but the amount of bugs that have been created by poor Patching is laughable 
 and the 1.3 patch made the game unplayable for many. Its a great game but it was let down by the 
 patches released for it.
  The game is an amazing modern combat game and stands alone as it has a ranking system for each 
 account holder. Allowing people to achieve awards such as Badges, Medals and Ribbons.
  What makes it even better is that you are rewarded for playing as you get weapons at certain ranks. 
 These weapons make the game refreshing as you arent stuck with the same old weapons throughout 
 the whole time of playing it. With the ability now to turn vehicles on and off in servers make 
 the game even better as you don't find yourself face to face with a tank and no Anti Tank weaponry. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booyadude
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 2, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is simply one of the best online experiences you can have. But, you'd expect that 
 with all the praise it's gotten over the years in terms of gameplay and it's much-talked-about 
 persistent stat tracking. While this all makes the package nicer and a little more enticing, the 
 core of this whole game is the insane multiplayer that puts you in the shoes of a soldier on the 
 ground (or air, or sea) during a large, or small, scale battle. And this is what BF2 does incredibly 
 well. Whether you play as a lone wolf, fending for yourself in the battles, or play as part of 
 a squad, in which case you feel this satisfaction when you work together. Intensity is the name 
 of the game with these battles, and it always lives up to it. That is, if you get enough people. 
 The thing is, if you don't have enough people on the server, matches might become a little boring, 
 because some people put like 10 people on a 64 player map, and that just doesn't work out well. 
 So, you've got your player classes: Sniper, Assault, Special Forces, Engineer, Medic, Anti-Tank, 
 and Support. These all have extremely relevent parts to play on the battlefied. Sniper might provide 
 cover fire, while the assault class will rush in and the special forces follow right behind them, 
 occasionally planting some C4 on a tank to clear the path. Then Support class will provide ammo, 
 and then great cover fire for the tight corridors and streets. The Medic will, of course, heal 
 the others and the Anti-Tank will save you tons of lives by launchin one of those rockets into 
 the side of a tank or Humvee. The first time this all works together and you experience it, it 
 might as well be called magic. You'll get this exhileration from inside of you that will compell 
 you to play more and more, even though you may not want to after three hours of constant flashes 
 of gunfire and artillary fire. Speaking of artillary fire, that is one major problem with the online. 
 You will probably get killed by artillary fire 8/10 times you die. No lie. This may become and 
 extreme annoyance to people, and might cause you to stop playing, but other than that, this online 
 is absolutely incredible. You'll be promoted to higher ranks the more you play, based on kills 
 per round and things like that, and with each new rank you'll get a weapon kit unlock for each 
 of the classes. You'll be confronted with a screen, which will then show you the ones available 
 to unlock. The weapons are usually just a variation of the older one, although they do serve a 
 purpose on the battlefield, just like everything else in the game. Commander mode is a great feature 
 that, while daunting, is gratifying in that is will truly make you feel as if you are controlling 
 an entire assault or defense. You've got three armies that come with the regular game: USMC, Chinese 
 People's Liberation Army, and the fictional Middle Eastern Coalition. Each of these have distinct 
 weapons and characteristics, so you'll definately want to play as much of each as possible. The 
 graphics will stun with the effects that are thrown at you. Dirt will be kicked up in your face, 
 and muzzle flashes will be discernerable through smoke. The guns are highly detailed, and so are 
 the environments, especially such claustrophobic maps as Strike at Karkand (my personal favorite, 
 as well as a community favorite, it seems) . The sound is also top-notch, with everything being 
 absolutely amazing in it's clarity, making everything all the more immersive. The boom of your 
 gun will make you extremely satisfied with every shot, and the hum of your engine will totally 
 give you the illusion of driving. Couple all that with the fact that you will be able to hear the 
 action from farther away than you would ever dream, and you've got a killer sound setup. In the 
 end, everything about Battlefield 2's online clicks in such a way that never has been done before, 
 and that makes it one of the best online shooters ever made, as well as a game that will stand 
 the test of time as a benchmark for all other imitators that will surely follow. You'll never forget 
 the first time you run up of a tank, place explosives on it, and then desperately run to cover 
 from your own blast. And then when you snipe a person in the head from far away, you will feel 
 something that will hook you for months. Battlefield 2 is a game that should be in every online 
 PC gamer's library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamodizzo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 30, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  If you were a follower of the original Battle Field than your just as sane to stay on the bandwagon 
 as it's the right path to MORE pleasure on the warfield! Picture this: 28 hrs of straight playing 
 it and eating nothing but Subway Sandwiches! Now that's a LAN Party! We had a BLAST as for what 
 we were doing virtually but literally too! It's totally what friends need to do once in a while 
 to get their troubles out of their heads, I mean, have our friends bring there PCs over, hook it 
 up on a gig-a-bit router and ROCK-ON! 6 PCs and 28 hrs later, your the best friends for life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donarudo88
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 30, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  My first time playing a BF game. This was one of the best FPS I played when I came across this 
 but pretty demanding for users with 1-2 year (s) old systems. Pretty long load times but addictive 
 gameplay and great graphics even if you turn the settings down a bit once you get going. The updates 
 were pretty lame since the only good maps are the ones that came with the game. Really fun if you're 
 playing in a server with 15+ players. EA hit the spot with this FPS, so I reccomend it to anyone 
 into FPS and love team-based games. You might spend the entire night playing this if it's your 
 first time playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 27, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 from Electronic Arts is probably the must have game for 2005. Excellent graphics, 
 large scale multiplayer battles, and a new global ranking system all make Battlefield 2 an excellent 
 edition the Battlefield series. 
  
  Game play in Battlefield 2 is similar to both Battlefield 1942 &amp; Battlefield Vietnam. If you 
 have played either of the two earlier games in the series, you have a good sense of what the game 
 play in BF 2 is going to feel like. BF 2 has the same conquest style of game play that the earlier 
 games used; it also maintains the ability to select various weapon kits for medic, Special Forces, 
 support, assault, ect. Ect There are however several new feature in BF2 that neither of the first 
 2 games had. In BF 2 players can create 6 man squads with Voice over IP connections to each of 
 the members for easy communication in game. Squad leaders can setup waypoints and objectives for 
 the soldiers under his command. This feature is nice but EA added an even greater feature, the 
 battlefield commander. The commanders have voice directly to the squad leaders, for assignment 
 of orders and coordination of attacks. The commander also can call in supplies, radar UAVs, and 
 artillery to areas that the squad leaders ask for assistance. Aside from this completely new feature 
 to BF 2 there are some improvements made to game play elements that first appeared in Battlefield 
 Vietnam. Aircraft heat seeking missiles no longer track the nearest heat source as the did in BFV, 
 now heads up displays show a player exactly what they have locked onto, and give a audible tone 
 when to fire. There are now TV guided missiles on helicopters, and some fighter/bomber aircraft 
 that are fired and guided by the co-pilot, and infantry anti tank missiles, can be guided to their 
 target, by simply holding the fire button after you have launched a missile, and looking where 
 you want the missile to go! EA did slow down helicopter turn rates, so that they cannot, hover 
 over a flag and do the circle of death move (that continently made all anti air missiles miss) 
 that was so popular in BFV. However all aircraft are fitted with flares as a counter-measure to 
 Anti Air missiles. Finally EA has initiated a ranking system the rewards players for good performance. 
 Unfortunately to earn rank you must play on a ranked server and as of released spaces on ranked 
 servers have been hard to come by. But if you are fortunate enough to join a ranked server, you 
 earn ranks by earning points either through capturing flags, or killing enemies. After you have 
 accumulated enough points you earn a rank, which you carry with you from server to server. A higher 
 rank allows you a better chance of being the battlefield commander if you want to play as one, 
 also if you rank up enough you can unlock new weapons for the various kits, such as a .50 cal sniper 
 rifle for the sniper kit. Also all your stats are recorded for your viewing pleasure, and used 
 to from a top players list so you can see where you stand against every one, even people you've 
 never seen on a server. 
  
  Graphics, what can be said about the graphics, except they are awesome, unfortunately your going 
 to need a beefy system to get all of the graphical goodness to show up. I've rune the game on High 
 detail, but with medium lighting, and everything is spectacular to look at. Vehicles and soldiers 
 all cast semi realistic shadows over each other, and trees and buildings cast realistic shadows 
 over vehicles and soldiers! Some of the Shading effects alone make the game stand out as one of 
 the better looking games on the market today. 
  
  Replay Value for Battlefield 2 is defiantly high, every time you play it you are going to go up 
 against a different human opponent, and even the same opponent won't make the same mistake twice. 
 Also we can all look forward to some stunning Mods in the near future from the gaming community. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 27, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  My first reaction to the the game was Wow, this is what I have been waiting for all this time , 
 I love war games and Battlefield 2 is real war, where your just one soldier. I had so much fun 
 playing the coperative mission with my friends on LAN, a week ago. Althought there are singleplayer 
 maps multiplayer is recommended and is awesome.
  
  The GOOD: Awesome graphics and sound, gives you a real feeling that your in the middle of a war, 
 good gameplay and you can command a unit or be the strtegic commander as well. The game is very 
 realistics with OK AI who do duck behind and crouch and try to get behind your back as the difficulty 
 rises. Good multiplayer action.
  
  The BAD: You need a good high end computer with a good graphic card to run it on full graphics 
 but if you got a PC or Laptop like mine don't worry you can still run the game on medium or low 
 graphics (my specs: Pentium 4 - 2.4Ghz, 768RAM, and a Geforce 6200 - 128MB) . Long loading times 
 this is there for most computers at least 30 seconds to load, this really puts your motivation 
 down.
  
  Overall the game is pure FUN to play if your in to modern day war games, and it would still be 
 fun for you if your in to games like unreal 2004 and stuff because there are vehicles and stuff 
 and the action is somewhat similar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VirusOfSirus
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 Modern Combat is a great multiplayer game. It goes right along with its earlier companion, 
 the Battlefield 1942 series. However the graphics specifications are a bummer for most pc's.
  
  The graphics in battlefield 2 are outstanding. However, in order for the game to run smoothly 
 and properly you'll need a high performance graphics card. To some people, graphics dont matter, 
 but in this game, the graphics are everything.
  
  The sound in Battlefield 2 are also pretty dang good themselves. They are a stand-alone in the 
 way sound have advanced through games over time. If you have a good speaker system, then it actually 
 sounds like a war going on around you, which is very suspensfull and it deffinately gets your adrenaline 
 going.
  
  Battlefield 2 is a MUST BUY! Its a big hit and there are over a million people playing the game 
 aroudn the globe. So go out and buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikepigeo
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I have had this game for a very long time now. Since the day after the release date i think. It 
 has honestly been my favorite game ever since. So it seems kinda weird that i wouldnt write a review 
 till now, but i just recently started writing reviews, so i felt there was nothing more just, than 
 to write this review, about (arguably) the best game ever! When i first fired up BF2 i didnt have 
 broadband internet. I had a great machine though and was playing it with all settings maxed out. 
 Of course, because i only had dial-up, i was playing offline on the small, 16 player maps with 
 AI players. I was instantly stunned by the visuals and sound. After playing for a week i realized 
 that i absolutely had to get broadband internet. If it weren't for this game, i honestly dont think 
 i would have broadband today, or at least not as soon as i did. When i fired it up again, this 
 time on a 64-player map (Strike at Kharkand, the best BF2 map period) It seemed the same as before.... until 
 flags started being captured and our team was moving further and further into the map. It was then 
 that i realized how huge and detailed this battlefield really was. Whats more is that im a huge 
 military buff. 64 players on a huge battlefield duking it out onlline, the modern combat way in 
 amazing detail and sound. It doesnt get any better than this. Im gonna go play right now infact. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33T_HitmaN
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2006 1:45 am PT
Review:  This game is alot like battlefield 1942 but with better graphics and better gameplay. GAMEPLAY
 
  This game has alot of killing in it so it is not recommended for people who do not like death. But 
 if you do like death then get ready for the most killing ever because you gotta shoot them down 
 you may use Guns like: rocket launchers, hand guns, machine guns and things like that you may also 
 use grenades ,C4 and air shooters. VEHICLES
  The vehicles in this game are pretty good some of the vehicles are: tanks, jeeps (i think) , airoplanes, super 
 fast things???, rocket trucks and lots lots more. GRAPHICS
  The graphics in this game are alright they are very good with the guns and vehicles not that good 
 with gthe people as with the guns and vehicles but are still good overall i rate the graphics a 
 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highflyer800
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 21, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  this year i was finally able to get a good graphics card and decieded to get battlefield 2 with 
 it. let me be the first to say that you will not put this game down for ages. It has so much replay 
 value and every match won't be the same as the first. But what make this game so great. Well the 
 fact you can have a 64 player war with things like airplanes and tanks. if you never played any 
 of the BF games you may have problems flying for the first but arfter a few days or weeks you be 
 able fly them pretty easy with out crashing. theres also over lots of kits from spec ops to anti-tanks 
 , you find yourself either haveing one kit which you like best and use the most or. you be swiching 
 between like i swich between spec ops and sniper alot.
  
  i can't really talk about the graphics much as i put mine on low to get the best out the game. 
 But from looking at my friends who runs the game on high its look amazing and turning put the graphics 
 did not make the game laggy at all. the sound is also really good from the tanks movments to the 
 sound of a persomn dieing it actully sounds like the real thing.
  
  But there on big problem with BF2 every so often they bring out a patch which is meant to improve 
 gameplay by fixing the many bugs that it has. But when it comes out it just seems to create more 
 bugs. there are also alot of hackers about , not as much as there on counter strike but then one 
 hacker always to much in my view.
  
  all in all thought this game is one of the best for pc and like i said you won't put it down for 
 ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haky2
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 21, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  that somethimes you feel like youre for nothing in this game. Your team can win or loose without 
 you. I cant explain this feeling, maybe you understand this if you try Battlefield 2 on PS2 and 
 PC. The gaming world said that Battlefield is much better on Pc, its well organized.... etc But 
 I dont think so. On Ps2 you feel like. youre somebody, you MUST work together with your team. If 
 a shooter has a problem with a tank, you must transform in the body of an soldier who has a bazooka 
 or what. If you dont work together, you will DIE. This working together thing is GREAT on Ps2, 
 I dont know where does I feel this. And on PC? You start at nowhere, you can go anywhere /yeah 
 its a good thing/, but you feel like youre nothing. Somethimes if you dont do nothing, your thim 
 will win and somethimes you fight like Rambo and your theme will loose. I know its about reality, 
 and one man cant change a war, but I thing this reality is not for gamers, who wants to play for 
 fun, and not for these, who want to feel that, that they are important in the games. If you can 
 change my opinion, or you aggree with me, please write to me. I want to met new people, new friends, 
 discuss about games etc. Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indie-Kid
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 21, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  This game is great but not fun. It takes far too long to load and also sucks up a lot of your internet. 
 EA tried there best with the ranking system but it just dosn't work with all the best players based 
 on how long the play and not skill. Also when the EA servers are down no one can even log on. Pluses 
 are the realism EA put into he game are revolutionary and excellent, while the medic role is very 
 rewarding for running after people and reviving them when they take some lead . But you just can't 
 have fun constantly keeping an eye on your kill to death ratio. All in all great game but not as 
 fun as 1942. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgu
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 20, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  I love to use the jets in this games and form my squads or be the commander! Also like to run my 
 enemies down with the fast cars. This game has air, land and sea! it's awsome! Has many unlockables 
 and you get ranks. I my self like to be a sniper and kill enemies from towers, buildings cars / 
 under cars and from the chopers... 1-2 shots bang they dead. Also special opps is fun you get to 
 c-4 stuff haha. But most of the time i am with a team mate shooting sloughtering people in the 
 halos! I can dodge their missiles like crazy and pull crazy stuns like in some movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mydasx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  i'm sure this is coming late, but i figured i'd do a write up none the less. The battlefield series 
 has stepped it up once again. Taking all the greatness that was found in desert combat and rolling 
 it into a full release was a great idea. Gameplay is highly addictive and emmersive. like to run 
 and shoot go for it, like to hide and snipe go for it, like to fly choppers filled w/ real players 
 let them jump out, provide air cover then when they take the flag land and pick them up???? GO 
 FOR IT. This is the multiplayer that killed them all. People belly ache about EA pretty regularly 
 on this site. IMHO, Battlefield 2 exibits all that is great about EA. Big concept and delivered 
 on time.
  
  Mydasx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DR_RISK
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 20, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  This game is alot like battlefield 1942 but with better graphics and better gameplay. GAMEPLAY
 
  This game has alot of killing in it so it is not recommended for people who do not like death. But 
 if you do like death then get ready for the most killing ever because you gotta shoot them down 
 you may use Guns like: rocket launchers, hand guns, machine guns and things like that you may also 
 use grenades ,C4 and air shooters. VEHICLES
  The vehicles in this game are pretty good some of the vehicles are: tanks, jeeps (i think) , airoplanes, super 
 fast things???, rocket trucks and lots lots more. GRAPHICS
  The graphics in this game are alright they are very good with the guns and vehicles not that good 
 with gthe people as with the guns and vehicles but are still good overall i rate the graphics a 
 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiRrOmNaD
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 19, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 offers everything you want and more. Huge maps, a diverse set of classes to pick 
 from, and many vehicles to master using. The gameplay is great, although for some people may take 
 a while to get used to, especially if the FPS's you are used to playing are Halo or Half-life/Counter-Strike. 
 The graphics are great, everything looks very pleasing. It has great sound, makes you feel like 
 you are actually in a warzone. It's a game you can pick up and play whenever you feel like it, 
 lot's of weapons to unlock and medals to earn.
  
  The only real problem i had with the game is that the load times are horrible. It takes 10-15 minutes 
 for the game to start up and get rolling. But after that it's good times to be had by all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lav-25
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 19, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  Hello i would like to say battlefield 2 is a very very good game you can be three RACES, MIDDLE 
 EASTERN, AMERICAN, CHINEASE. But ther is also a expanstion pack BATTLEFIELD 2 SPECIAL FORCES which 
 adds on more races and weapons, any way let me explain BATTLEFIELD 2!!!!!
  
  GRAPHICS: the graphics of BATTLEFIELD 2 are very good you do need a average graphic card to support 
 BATTLEFIELD 2, i have a RADEON 9600XT 256MB and it works VERY well.
  
  SOUND: the sound in BATTLEFIELD 2 is good but not the best the back ground fire of other troops 
 fireing sound good but not really from your own gun but besides that the sound is good.
  
  GAMEPLAY: the gameplay in BATTLEFIELD 2 is VERY good, the soldeirs fly back when shot and have screwed 
 up faces when ther dead you can get in TANKS, HELICOPTERS, JETS, HUMVEES [cars] and much more. you 
 have a wide range in weapons but depends on which class you pick on each class theres diffrent 
 weapons and equipment for each class but none are to special i like ANTI TANK class because it 
 really gets TANKS off your back TANKS in BATTLEFIELD 2 are very harraseing when you come across 
 them and you come across them ALOT!!!! They can kill you in a blink of a eye or they can get destroyed 
 in a blink of a eye they can kill off your team members very easy but when there are no tanks around, 
 killing INFANTRY {soldeirs on foot } is very easy but only if you have set the game on easy you 
 die in BATTLEFIELD 2 VERY easy like i said in a blink of a eye but what i have realised is the 
 way the sodleirs land when killed is unrealstic they spin around sometimes and even get there legs 
 tied up together but sometimes this can be very funny i have realised BATTLEFIELD 2 can be a very 
 funny game especially when you get in a knife fight with a enemy its so funny they seem to miss 
 alot but then again you seem to as well, it only takes one shot to kill a soldeir with a knife 
 which is unrealistic, if one of your team members and a enemy get in a knife fight they spin around 
 wildly trying to get a stab which can make you stand there and watch and laugh instead of helping. But 
 if you find yourself being attacked by a soldeir with a knife dont shoot them with the gun have 
 a shot with the knife it can be enjoyble sometimes. BATTLEFIELD 2 is a very good game BUT has no 
 campagin which is very stupied!!!!!
  
  GOOD: BATTLEFIELD 2 is a very good game good graphics and VERY realistic soldeirs they look how 
 they look in real life, funny and can entertain any one!!!!!!!
  
  BAD: BATTLEFIELD 2 can get boreing sometimes especially when you are trying to find a enemy to kill, 
 no campagin, and sometimes the same thing happens you either kill him or he kills you, you neaver 
 come across a match were it comes close to a draw!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glordit
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 18, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  I was A BattleField Fan the day I bought BattleField 1942 and played it online, it was Totaly Amazing! 
 some time has passed and Battlefield 2 is Exactly the same! If not Better...
  For a Start the Ghraphics is totaly Amazing it apears as if your are actually in the battlefield 
 yourself, as A Foot Soilder, tank driver or a Fighter Pilot!
  
  The Gameply is much the same though, well what would one expect, would have been nice if they had 
 jsut made a 2 sided map for players to duke it out old school style, But the control point aspect 
 of the game keeps it balanced. Instead of just ownaging everything in site you still gotta spawn 
 near a tank at you base or control point.
  
  Vehiclar comabt was excelent but I felt that the tanks were a little stupid when they shot at Infantry [if 
 you did not hit the player you would simply miss him/her completely] There is a wide variety of 
 Vehicles including Hummers, Tanks, Bobmer Jets and Fighter, Choppers too! but the PLanes and Choppers 
 Still have the classic BF style of control so Practice before Flying! Anti-Air Also makes an Apearance, 
 Each Country has there own style of Vehicle.
  
  The Types Of Infantry you see it what makes the game [for me] so spectacular from Combat Support 
 to Assualt to Snipers and Anti-Tank. [The Sniper rifles seemed to be a little weak only when using 
 The Chinese/MEC SVD could you do damage cause of semi-auto :) ] The Gameplay is well balanced, once 
 A Tank enters a Square it's not too long Before a Suicidal Spec Ops Runs Across the Square with 
 a Chunk of C4 ready and Runs away in time just to blow it Sky High!
  
  Final thoughts... Single Player could have been A Little beter only support for 16 players only! 
 mods can fix this but they suck!
  All in All an great Addtion to your online Gaming Collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanX1013
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 15, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly amazing. Assuming your system can run on a high setting for the game, your jaw 
 will drop at the graphical performance.
  
  For those who have never played a battlefield game, or who have been living in a cave, I will explain 
 the bases of the Battlefield Series. Battlefield is a sandbox, just for fun game. Realism is in 
 there, but it is the farthest thing from top priority. You can hop in any buggy, helicopter, jet, 
 boat, or hummer you can find and drive to your objective. It is a conquest mode which basically 
 means there are a lot of flags you must capture.
  
  All right, on to the game. The gameplay is fast paced, fun, and just pure exciting... if you can 
 find a server that has people that aren't jerks. The largest factor in the game is this problem. 
 Most of the people are for personal glory and will not use the teamwork the maps were designed 
 around. In this game you can rank up get awards. This keeps the game new and fresh everytime you 
 playa s you strive for another award. Starting at the lonliest private, you work your way up to 
 a four star general. Ways to get points are teamwork, combat, and commander. Commander mode is 
 self-explanitory as you just command all the troops on your team. You can spot the enemy with UAV's, 
 give your allies supplies, vehicle drops, and artillery support. This is a neat new feature and 
 is very enterataining.
  
  All in all, despite a few quirks, Battlefield 2 is a fantastic game that is truly mind boggling 
 on the scale that some battles are played. Lag, glitches, stupid people who play are the only problems 
 with this game. Just be sure that your computer is up to specs so even lag will not be a problem. 
 I recommend this game to anybody who likes FPS.
  
  A SIDE NOTE: THIS GAME IS NOT NOOB FRIENDLY. YOU WILL GET DESTROYED IN THE FIRST MONTH OR TWO. 
 BEWARE OF THIS BEFORE YOU GET MAD AT THE GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 15, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Good game with a balanced and fine Multiplayer.
  
  Good Stuff : + Wide Variety of Vehicles, you can Commandeer
  
  + Playing on Ranked servers 
 can reward you with Higher ranks, which also leads to better weapons, Ribbons, medals, and maybe 
 a good spot on the Ranking system.
  
  + Descent Graphics and nice Vehicle design
  
  + An alright selection of Weapons and Classes to choose from
  
  + Fun seeing a player getting 
 blown away, with nice ragdoll physics
  
  + Some Great maps with many buildings you can occupy
  
  + Bunch of expansions and more on the 
 way.
  
  Bad Stuff: - The Weapon sounds and some vehicle sounds are a bit off and annoying
  
  - Long 
 loading times between map switches and Server joins, except when its a map restart.
  
  - The Loading music get very annoying in the long run, can ofcourse be turned off.
  
  - No 
 blood effects or wounds on soldiers.
  
  - All MEC soldiers look like Saddam hussein
  
  - Not good Server search options
  
  - Single player is useless, buy this only if you are looking 
 for Multiplayer.
  
  - Minor bugs and annoyances.
  
  - Get boring after a while
  
  - Few map modes, only conquest for now...
  
  Conclusion : Despite all the flaws, this game 
 is pretty great, and i reccomend it to FPS fans, very good team play game with right players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daggersquad
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 15, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is every Battlefield games smashed together and pumped up with steroids, for better 
 or for worse. Multiplayer is extremely competitive and to a new player it can be bit overwhelming. 
 Upon getting kills, healing allies, reviving allies, capturing strategic points, you are rewarded 
 with points which eventually lead to promotions where you can purchase better gear. This system 
 is a bit shaky but otherwise alright. More often then not it doesn't matter what weapon you have, 
 your going to get smashed by tanks, helicopters, jeeps, ect.. The teamwork is a bit absent and 
 the commander and squadleader ability to direct other players is very weak. The game is best described 
 as an everyman for himself, chaotic warzone.
  
  But if you do play it enough and get used to its style of gameplay it can provide hours upon hours 
 of entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brad11344
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 14, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I gave battlefield 2 a 9.3 for a good reason. Lets start wtih the gameplay, it is very good, you 
 can drive humvees, trucks, tanks, and other cool machines. you can crawl, crouch or run to ur enemy 
 and slit their throat. Plus theres plenty of places to snipe ppl. they only bad thing was you cant 
 zoom up on your scope.
  
  Graphics: i gave them a 9 because they were high in detail, if u walk up to someones face you will 
 see their face clearly and see them blink. And its almost like your really in the war. Only bad side 
 is that you cant see very far away with any bionuclars because of fog.
  
  Sound: sound is pretty dang good, you can hear soilders talking to each other or asking for a medice, repairs, amo 
 etc. you can say thanks with out typing you can say okay, no sir, get in, i need a medic here!, requesting 
 repairs, and etc and you can hear ppl coming up behind you too Value: this game is worth buying 
 to $50, but what i thought is that there was missions on offline games but i was wrong. Offline 
 is mostly practicing for the real thing. BUT YOU MUST HAVE INTERNET TO HAVE ALOT OF FUN PLAYIN 
 THIS GREAT GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p99007
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 12, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of those games that will have servers open for years to come. Sure the game has 
 becoome a bit hacked over the last few months, but if you can find a server that has non cheating, 
 fantastic players in it, your in for the ride of your life.
  
  Quite simply, this game is WW3. You can command an army, lead a squad, or be a fighter pilot in 
 a J-10. Whatever type of soldier you are, lock and load and move out. Speaking from personal experience, 
 I have spent many an hour fighting a war for my favorite army in this game, the PLA. However, the 
 two other factions in the trio, the US and the MEC (Middle East Coalition) are very fun as well.
 
  
  Vehicles... hmmm where to start. First off, they're great. They add a completely new dimension to 
 FPS' and they really make this game feel lke war whether it is a squad of soldiers advancing in 
 the cover of a tank or a squad trying to figure out how to destroy a steel behemoth that is plaguing 
 them. Whatever it is, its fun. Now, there are air vehicles as well. Those are fun as well, but 
 the coolest thing you will ever see in a video game happens in the sky. This is when a bunch of 
 parachuters jump out of a 'copter and dropo in to capture a point of capture.... GLORIOUS!!!!
  
  Whether it is chucking claymores at your best friend, or hearing another fellow dis you (which 
 is becoming quite comical) , this game ranks as one of the finest shooters, if not games, of the 
 21st century. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jan 9, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  I once found this to be a great game. Just like its precessor BF1942 and BF Veitnam, you could 
 do a lot that no other game had allowed you to do in the past. You could be a grunt, drive a tank/apc/jeep, 
 fly a plane or helicopter, be a squad leader, or even become the commander of your team. Play was 
 always varied and fast and furious.
  
  Now however, BF2 has become a haven for the cheater. They are fueled by companies that sell hacks 
 to the game that allow these cheaters to see throgh walls, see all enemies on the map or even give 
 a 100% aim enhancement so you never miss and can one shot kill people. For those that like to play 
 their games without being dumped on by these sorts of cheaters... I would steer clear of BF2. I 
 have also been reading of similar cheats/hacks for the upcoming BF2142. Might want to think twice 
 on that one too (don't believe me?... do a Google search on BF2 Hacks ) .
  
  Cheating/hacks are getting way out of hand in online games If the gaming companies (not just EA, 
 makers of BF2) don't do something about this issue, online multiplay gaming of this type is going 
 to die a slow and painful death. RIP BF2!
  
  {Updated Jan. 9, 2007} Just purchased the Booster Pack - Retail for my sons to play on their shared 
 computer. Thought they could play it from each of their own created soldiers like they do BF2 and 
 BF2: SF but that is not the case. According to EA, you have to own two Booster Packs in order to 
 do this or entitle the player which can only be done 3 times per week. You would think that EA 
 would make the BP accessible on the same machine, same account, same game without doing this???? 
 Sorry EA but this has left a bad taste for EA products in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dowju
Rating: 4.8
Date: Sep 11, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  BF2 looks brilliant on paper. 64 player multiplayer in a modern warfare environment, utilising 
 specialised classes, squad structure, and a multitude of vehicles.
  
  The problems come in its execution.
  
  The US sniper rifle is the only one with worthwhile 
 accuracy, while the Chinese and MEC auto-rifles have the benefit of rate of fire in exchange for 
 the most important thing about sniper rifles, accuracy.
  
  Almost every weapon suffers from horrible hit detection problems. For example at point blank an 
 MG will not hit anything at all unless deployed. I've also fired off an entire clip from the Anti-tanks 
 smg into the back of an opponent only to have him turn and riddle me with assault rifle rounds.
 
  
  The squad system, for all its good intentions, is misused by the communtiy. People play commander 
 to spam artillery, people create squads to get a direct request line for supply drops. It has become 
 increasingly rare to see a squad function as one in BF2, let alone a whole team.
  
  Finally, the games vehicle mix completely decimates any chances of balanced gamelplay. In BF2, 
 if your team has the best pilots, you have won. Attack choppers can circle strafe spawn points 
 all day with nearly no fear as SAM's are completely dud.
  
  In short, BF2 is a brilliant game technically, there are just a few minor misfires and community 
 problems that have gutted my experience of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kholdstareo1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 9, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  You sprint as fast as you can towards the small building only afew meters away, the sound of the 
 gravel beneath your feet, the pounding of your heart, and the loud blasts of the weapon being fired 
 at you. You dive without a second to lose as a rocket screams by your head, roaring with ferocious 
 intent, and you have to hump it the rest of the way. You make it, and lean to the left, opening 
 fire on the enemy, and then "click, click". You've run out of bullets. You frantically reload and 
 you see one of your squadmates running towards you for cover, but only a scant few inches away 
 from you, he gets mowed down by enemy fire. The "thump, thump" of explosions around you leaves 
 a loud ringing in your ears and your vision blurs. You've finished reloading, and gun down your 
 enemy, when a tank comes around the corner. You double back around the building and attempt to 
 flank it with your grenades, but its too late, because its already seen you. It unloads its machine 
 gun at you, and pieces of hot lead fly everywhere. In desperation, you duck behind a bush, just 
 as an artillery strike comes inbound toward your position. "WHAM!" a gigantic explosion lands less 
 than 4 feet away from you, the shock shaking your teeth and making your nose bleed, and soot and 
 grime fly into your eyes, as the guy right next to you is blown to pieces while you survive. The 
 explosions cease, and you see the remainder of your squad holding the hill, which is vital so the 
 enemy doesn't gain access to the main city. You join them and together drive back the invaders, 
 your victory short-lived because you know reinforcements are already on their way and you'll have 
 to fight again soon. That is battlefield 2 at its best. My only gripes with this game are: long 
 loading times, a very poorly designed server browser, and the physics can be pretty weird at points. 
 But thats it. Once you start playing this game, you don't want to stop for hours and hours. I could 
 go on and on with this review, but ive got some Battlefield 2 to get back to! LATER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: champhf
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  this is to take my hat off and say this is one of the best spent money i have used to buy a game 
 in a long time. i wil not sell this game if you payed me and i wil be getting the new battlfield 
 when it drops but im keeping this as a backup. i can go on about the gameplay but you see the reviews, 
 im sure your not under a rock and have meet someone with a pc who can tell you that the one made 
 for xbox, ps2 did not do justice to this evolution of war gaming... unless you own a pc you probably 
 don't understand the following of this game. true battlfield fans please stand up!!! i salute you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ogdenous
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 7, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  With many FPS out there, I still find Battlefield 2 as my top rated. It takes allot from the older 
 BF1942 and adds on new weapons and vehicles. A new graphics engine is welcome but can seriously 
 slow your PC is you have less then 1 Gigabyte of RAM.
  
  Pros:
  The best feature in my opinion is the ability to drive or fly any vehicle in the game. This took 
 FPS to a whole new level. I 1st saw this feature in Operation Flashpoint (OFP2 coming soon) and 
 was amazed how you can have massive battle on land, sea and air.
  
  Cons:
  Mostly just the slow speed to load the game. Been up your RAM (1G or more) and make sure you have 
 a mid-high end graphics card with 256MB or more. Also a 7200 RPM hard drive is a must for loading.
 
  
  Baseline:
  If you got the hardware get the game and expansions. Other options are Operation Flashpoint... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korlis612
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 6, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 suffers the same curse as any online game - a lot of the time, the game you get to 
 play depends on who you're playing with. The very best game can be ruined by bad players, and BF2 
 isn't the best game to begin with.
  
  Let me start by saying BF2 certainly has it's strong points. When a good game gets going, there's 
 a great deal going on - squads working together using the built-in orders system, a commander bringing 
 in artillery on enemy positions and dropping supplies to friendly troops, tanks rolling through 
 and APCs carrying infantry, helicopters and jets zooming around. There are a whole bunch of different 
 ways to play, from jumping into an armoured vehicle at the earliest opportunity to sticking it 
 out as infantry, or bringing death from the skies. A lot of fun can be had simply defending one 
 of the control points the game revolves around, never mind the wealth of other options.
  
  However, there are serious flaws. Since it shipped the game has been buggy and unstable, and numerous 
 patches have failed to really fix that, including some serious problems like the infamous bug that 
 makes friendlies look like enemies and vice versa. The menu system is one of the worst creations 
 in a game that I've ever seen. It lumbers around, unresponsive, even requiring a "menu loading" 
 box to appear when you switch from the action to the menu. On top of that, it can be a real resource 
 hog, requiring a lot of memory to keep going smoothly. The gameplay is also extremely unbalanced 
 despite the length of time it has been out, leaving infantry players seriously underpowered versus 
 people who use vehicles and often with very little recourse against them. Air power, especially, 
 is so overpowered it's ridiculous. There is no dedicated infantry anti-air kit, leaving only an 
 anti-air tank (that doesn't appear on all maps air power does) , and fixed anti-air positions that 
 are easily taken out, and even then don't offer good firepower against a fast-moving jet or even 
 a helicopter. To top it off, cheating and exploiting is rife, and can absolutely ruin a server.
 
  
  If you can get past its flaws you're in for a good time, especially if you play with a friend or 
 get a squad going, but be prepared to suffer for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sethimus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 3, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  As FPS games go, battlefield 2 rocks when it comes to everything. FInd the right server, put your 
 headset on, and your good to go for a night of hardcore gaming and ordering pizza. Battlefield 
 2 makes it easy to join teams and set up squads. Not only that but if you prefer to go as a "lonewolf" 
 and play against the enemy army without a squad of teammates following you, you can do that to.
 
  
  Tanks, Trucks, Helicopters, Planes, Parachutes, UAV overflights, Artillery fire.
  This game completely submerges you into the battlefield, you are the soldier, whether you are a 
 medic or heavy support, is up to you, but the game takes control and puts you right there in the 
 middle of a war. Definately the most fun ive had playing multiplayer in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derrico_8448
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 2, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those game that completely puts you in the moment, and you'll feel like your on 
 a living battlefield. It can be completely calm at one moment, but the next you'll be in the middle 
 of an artillery barrage, desperately sprinting for cover. Gameplay:
  Simply undescrible. The way this game immerses you is nothing short of amazing. When you enter 
 a squad with players that work as a team and give you/listen to commands, it is some of the most 
 fun you could possibly have on the pc. the absolute ONLY downfall of battlefield 2, is the extremely 
 laggy servers, and the infinite bugs in the game. The sound will die out for 1 second, the game 
 will stop for no reason, or it willl just crash. Not cool
  
  Graphics:
  This game can look amazing if you play it at high settings. However, the ONLY way to accomplish 
 high settings without hard-drive paging, is to have two gigs of RAM. If you are stuck with one 
 gig, all you have to do is turn textures to medium, and you'll be fine. (can hardly tell anyway) 
 The inside of the vehicles aren't as detailed as I would like them to be, but the gun models are 
 great, and the player models are awesome. The textures on the roads andd grass are excellent too.
 
  
  Sound:
  Integrated sound=Not good If you have a decent sound card however, you will be in for a treat. 
 I have some usb headphone with 5.1 surround sound and it is incredible. The game has an option 
 for software sound, hardware sound, or X-Fi sound for you rich bastards.
  
  Value:
  You get a lot of bang for your buck in this game, and you can easily get 100+ hours without being 
 bored. Not bad for 30 bucks eh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarusmk3
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  Though many people would associate Battlefield 2 with the Battlefield 1942 mod: Desert Combat, 
 and think it is but a mere upgrade in terms of graphics. They couldn't be more wrong. Though it 
 is true that Battlefield 2 is built upon the same premise as the Capture and Hold (Area Control) 
 idea behind the Battlefield series, it incorporated a few ingenius ideas to make the game a whole 
 lot more intriguing.
  
  First of all is the new aspect of a Commander for your entire team. This individual is responsible 
 for giving orders (which is sometimes declined by the various team members, to my dismay) , coordinate 
 attacks, and to provide assets to your team to help them win.
  
  Another aspect is that of global statistics, where the game basically takes everything you do in 
 the game, right down to the number of bullets you fire and incorporates it into a ranking structure 
 which will allow you to gain access to new weapons and various prestige badges.
  
  The class based system has been expanded and it appears that most of the classes are well balanced. 
 The vehicles are well varied from the F-35s and T-90 battle tanks to the more obscure Dune Buggies.
 
  
  Learning how to play this game is relatively easy. But in order to excel at any particular aspect 
 of the game, be it flying planes, helicopters, to sniping, and tanking will require quite a lot 
 of time to hone those skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MorseY05
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 30, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Battlefield 2 since it has been out and still enjoy the game, alot. The reason 
 i enjoy it this much is because i love playing all types of 'war' games such as COD and DOD. If 
 you like playing FPS' which have a 'real feel' to it then be sure to check this game out. With 
 the combination of being able to climb buildings to snipe people from and fly to the enemies base 
 and bombard it with, well, bombs makes this a very fun game to play. While the points you get to 
 level aren't that easy to get if you're new to this game, if you stick it out with a real good 
 team, get in there with the rest of the troops to capture those flags you'll be flying through 
 the ranks in no time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsammut
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2006 1:46 am PT
Review:  I only bought BF2 cause a friend of mine told me that its worth it and he told me to try it out 
 and since i had no games to play and i got used to the old ones i had i bought it. it really is 
 worth it.
  The game presents a battlefield which is close to reality... most war games i have played such as 
 Call of Duty 2 offer a great experience but they lack the big maps and the vehicles. Battlefield 
 2 offers these and they simply make the game more enjoyable.
  There are also a lot of servers to choose from so finding a good server is not a problem at all.
 
  The issues which i really noticed and mad me a bit furious is that with the introduction of patch 
 1.3 you cannot do stuff like :
  Jump-shooting
  Jumping and trowing c4's ermmm
  the thing that he tires when he sprints. etc
  I mean... would you really stop running if there 
 is a tank behind you????
  the others like jump shooting i really got used to in CoD2 and CSS and it takes time to get used 
 to them... but in the end they are just small things that dont matter because the game is soo cool. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrialRevluc
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 28, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  Role the DICE and buy this game. EA Games proves once again why they are the powerhouse of gameplay. 
 Out of the box and on the computer this game rocks, even with the v. 1.0 release. I haven't had 
 the opportunity to download any of the maps, mods, or patches since it seems everyone out there 
 on "Wake Island" is busy doing the same. Being a helicopter pilot, it is interesting to be able 
 to fly the UH-60s in the game and paradrop out on the enemy while my helicopter makes its way to 
 earth to cause nothing but destruction. Flying the jets in the game give me the same pleasure while 
 getting to the action quick. Now, if only I could download some of the patches so I could play 
 on the multiplayer server which is very limited with the 1.0 version of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorStoffer
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 28, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  to put it simply, before EA released the patches the game ran well with the occasional crash, and 
 sure they aircraft were annoying but they still could be killed and i really enjoyed the game
 
  
  then EA released a patch
  they needed to fix the problems yes, but the side affects of this patch ruined it, at least for 
 me
  horrible lag wherever i went, and with it so easy to gain ranks everyone was using the same weapons
 
  ive since upgraded my system to well within recommended settings, but its still lagging quite 
 a bit even at medium settings
  
  i dont blame the huge technical problems on the designers, they did the best they could to make 
 a good game, but got thier time cut too short by the guys in charge which hurt this game irreprably
 
  and for gods sake its built on python! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt-Billend1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 11:53 pm PT
Review:  BF2 rocks, i love its graphics, sound affects and general gameplay. Has alot to offer and online 
 it is possibly one of the best FPS ever made. Singleplayer not so good, kinda boring but online 
 it is the best. Great job EA but dont make any more expansions, they take away the true BF2 gaming 
 experiance plus they suck :D Over all, anyone who loves Battlefield 1942 or Vietnam will love this, 
 very addictive and totally worth it!!!!!!!!!!!! So go out, buy it and have as much gaming fun as 
 possible! If u get this watch out for those nerds who play it for hours on end and think they are 
 so hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gollum007
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is a masterpiece. 6 or 7 different classes, many awards and ranks, weapon unlocks, and 
 difficulty in helping your team win is very fun.
  The problem though is that the game has many problems with the squad system which is supposed to 
 make the game more difficult to win against another team. It does but very rarely at times because 
 many of your squad members will only join to be able to spawn in a random place they're aiming 
 to get to more easily. Many also will kick u from their squad just because they have a buddy place 
 in the squad being reserved, because u start out as a private ( which they automatically think 
 you're a noob, which automatically makes u unwanted) , because you don't have a mic or just because 
 they just dont like u for no reason. The guns are very varied and so is the strategy. When i play 
 usually i go for destroying the enemies artillery first then radar and scan to dramatically help 
 my team win. I also hear many people on other forums that complain about artillery and even in 
 the game, yet it never comes to their mind that they themselves can destroy that stuff. They usually 
 just play the game as usual and keep complaining about arty as if they expect someone else to do 
 the more boring work yet more effective. The vehicles are very fun to play with but are often overused 
 to wear it can make u start cussing at the enemy because he along with others everywhere are camping. 
 The leader commands are great, especially the arty, yet sometimes your team won't even listen to 
 your requests for arty repairs or they think u suck yet they dont think that just maybe you've 
 lost some of your commands. But even so, most likely they'll complain and not even think about 
 helping you in giving out commands. The text on the screen put out to teamates is also ignored 
 or the players are completely blind when you sayI need two or three people to fix my arty, scan, 
 and radar." Overall it's very enjoyable but the communication between players and selfishness is 
 very high, making the score a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 26, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
   Amazing mulitplayer experience. It's all about team work in Battlefield 2. There's a ton of weapons 
 to choose from, a good amount of vehicles (flying, land, and water) to choose from, and enough 
 action to keep you on your toes.
   Good looking game and great use of the EAX technology. This is one of the first games to support 
 the Creative Sound Blaster X-Fi sound card. The graphics are great looking. There's a good view 
 distance and a lot of high definition textures that look really amazing, with the right hardware.
 
   The stats system is really fun to keep up with. You actually get to rank yourself from a Private 
 up. It's pretty fun to check your friends stats and compare them with yours.
   One of the unique functions of Battlefield 2 is the commander. You are basically the boss of 
 your team. You get to send supplies, vehicles, and even send artillery strikes to whatever are 
 you want.
  
  :Bad Idea:
   To actually run this game, you're going to need some good hardware. That Voodoo 2 just won't 
 cut it with Battlefield 2.
   Sometimes the EA server doesn't allow you to view your stats. Minor annoyance.
  
  :Overall:
 
   Battlefield 2 is one of the best games on PC these days. There's a ton of replay value and is 
 well worth the money. This is a game that will not lose it's flavor after a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ambiorix1974
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  With new weapons, new vehicles, new aircrafts, new maps and the ability to for squads, the people 
 at EA have really come up with the best multi-player game in this universe. Battlefield 2 is one 
 of those games that once you start playing it's nearly impossible to put down. The graphics are 
 great and you don't really need a monster of a computer to run it. The tug-o-war elements makes 
 this game really shine and it creates this suspenseful feeling. One great feature is the role-playing 
 aspect of it. Your soldier will grow with every kill, every risk you take, like jumping out of 
 a parachute from great distances. You get medals, ribbons and new un-lockable weapons that you 
 can actually use in the multi-player mode. I greatly recommend it. It's worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodders1991
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 23, 2006 4:12 am PT
Review:  this game isjust amzing i only hoped that the 360 version was the same but it wasnst so for this 
 i am very dissapointed but you no you cant get every thing and my pc cant have this game so i am 
 ticked offf coz i have shuch a pooo pc rahhhhhhhh now i have to wait till crimbo but any way any 
 one who is goingto buy this game if you ant got the internet then dont but if you have youwill 
 be havig maney manet hours of fun trust me on that one also the next game 2142 looks even better 
 i only hoped that that ws coming out after crimbo but it is not so you no i have to wait 2 months 
 they will be the worst of my life wahhhhhh and the titan mode looks the best thing i have ever 
 saw for mulitplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DekU_NuT_MaRin3
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  if it wasn't for a few bugs, this game would be perfect.
  
  this is an incredible sequel to battlefield 1942, with gorgeous eyecandy, incredible maps, good 
 gameplay and multiplayer haven. It supports singleplayer and up to 64 player multiplayer action. 
 You can play as a soldier of the MEC (middle east coalition) , PLA (People's liberation army) or 
 USMC, with eight different soldier kits available such as engineer, special-ops, medic, support, 
 etc.
  
  While the aim of the game mainly revolves around capturing enemy flags, it is surprisingly fun 
 and chaotic.
  
  it does have a few flaws, but all up- it's the greatest game i have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kariemjh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 22, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is one of the most amazing games i ever played.
  you of course buy it for the multiplayer, cus the single player just sucks.
  with 64-players 
 online you while play very big battles and most of the maps are very good some however ar a bit 
 to empty specially for infantry witch i play most. the gameplay is very good but for the flying 
 you've got learn a bit.
  but all in all its a great game
  
  The bugs however are a different story, cus you while encounter a LOT
  of them. and the patches 
 dont seem to do any good. now al we can do is hope for the next patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheEdgeOfSoul
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 22, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  It's easy to tell that Battlefield 2 is something special just by watching it. From the first time 
 I played it... never before in a PC game have I ever felt so much like I was part of an army fighting 
 a war on every conceivable level... from the different unit types to the awe inspiring power of 
 armor and air support to the sheer show of force that is the commander artillery strike. The sounds, 
 the visuals, and the options in what you can do really help make this game the definitive arcade 
 style war based first person shooter for your PC. The game centers around the multiplayer game 
 mode called conquest, in which up to 64 players take to the field to take spawnpoints, wich are 
 marked by flags. Taking them is a seemingly simple matter of standing near the enemy flag as it 
 lowers and becomes neutral, then rises again to become yours. The more troops near the flag, the 
 faster this happens. When one team runs out of either these spawnpoints, or tickets, which are 
 the number of respawns the team can collectively utilize, that team loses.
  
  As already stated, the number of ways you can play this game are incredibly diverse. Foot soldiers 
 can choose from Assault to mow down enemy infantry, support to resupply your buddies and lay down 
 supressing fire, medics to heal and even revive your team, snipers to pick at the enemy from afar, 
 Special operations to destroy enemy armor and assets, engineer to repair friendly armor and assets, 
 and anit tank to put a dent in nasty enemy vehicles. At the beginning of the game, the each team 
 can form squads of six, wich allows the squad leader to become a mobile respawn point, and one 
 player from each team can become the commander, who can see the entire map from overhead and use 
 scanner sweeps to locate the enemy, UAV scans to put the enemy on friendly radar, the new added 
 vehicle drops to give all the foot soldiers some much needed additional transportation, supply 
 drops to refill friendly ammo and repair vehicles and assets, and finally, the artillery strike... God's 
 wrath in the form of high powered explosions randomly blanketing a selected area. Vehicles also 
 play a major role in the game, often times armor and air support can turn the tide of war singlehandedly, 
 and lighter transports can get troops across the battlefield to get where they need to be before 
 the enemy can respond.
  
  With the 1.3 patch, there was also added the ability to play the game's story mode cooperatively 
 online. The game's story focuses on the conflict between the United States and China along with 
 the fictional Middle Eastern Coalition. Each of these armies has their own vehicles, and a distinct 
 set of weapons for each kit, along with universal unlocks that can be earned through earning point 
 playing this game and the "Special Forces" expansion pack. Points are earned primarilly through 
 kills, flag neutralizations, and flag captures, along with assists in these things. Points are 
 also earned through using the unique ability of some of the kits. Medics can earn points for reviving 
 and healing, engineers for repairing, Spec-Ops through destroying enemy UAV, artillery, and radar, 
 and support by tossing ammo packs to their comrades.
  
  This leads to the biggest flaw of the game... unbalance. Assault, Antitank, and Snipers have no 
 inherent means of earning these team points. Engineers spend large amounts of play time repairing 
 for one measly point, while Medics and Support ca get points by tossing things to the ground and 
 waiting for someone to invariably walk over them. In addition, certain kits just seem to be flatly 
 superior to others. In addition to the easy points inherent to the kit, medics also have the best 
 assault rifles in the game. Support guns have amazing power, ammunition, and firing rates, and 
 the accuracy is fairly easy to keep controlled. Spec-Ops have incredible rifles and the ability 
 to take out vehicles to boot. While Antitank rockets are hopelessly weak and have almost no splash 
 damage, taking 3-5 shots to take out a tank, and sometimes even failing to take out simple hummers 
 and vans in a single strike. The weakness of the antitank kits and the stationary antiair launchers 
 leads to the vehicles in the game being even more overpowered than they probably should be. 
  
  There are quite a few more balance issues with the game, and with every patch, the game only 
 seems to get worse. The game was released flawed of course, but it seems that with every subsequent 
 patch EA releases the game becomes less fun and more glitchy. Assault, the kit meant to be the 
 best infantry killer in the game, has been downgraded constantly, while other kits have been upgraded, 
 meaning now assault has no inherent means of earning teampoints like many other kits, and can easily 
 be gunned down by support and medic kits, who can earn points just as easily by helping their team 
 mates. Sniping in the game can only be a one hit kill with a head shot, and is also not as accurate 
 in other games, ensuring that the sniper domination so rampant in other first person shooters is 
 not an issue. But to balance this out, the claymore mines snipers have in their kit are currently 
 invulnerable... they cannot be shot, disarmed, or detonated in any fashion besides enemy proximity, 
 making them virtually a guaranteed kill no matter where you lay them... it's just a matter of time 
 until someone walks by. As more patches are released, there is just less and less reason to play 
 as certain kits, and wall glitching and collision detection becomes shottier. With path 1.3, the 
 server search function ceased to work, meaning you have to use vague filters then browse through 
 a list of hundreds of servers to find the specific game you want.
  
  The flaws are numerous with this game, even to the point where I have gone back to playing an earlier 
 version of it because it's simply more enjoyable. But truly, regardless of what patch version you're 
 playing... and there are many... this game emphasizes teamwork based gameplay like no other, and 
 truly captures the feeling of combat in a way that will get your heart racing. When playing, you 
 get the feeling that you are part of a much larger conflict, part of a unit and not a lone hero, 
 and that makes your exceptional lone wolf accomplishments that much sweeter. If you're looking 
 for a first person shooter not TOO heavy on realism and big on options, this one's the best you 
 can bet on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2006 1:13 am PT
Review:  BF 2 is a great game to play with you friends if they have it or if their PCs can run it, It has 
 great classes, weapons, maps, and Vehicles. It's not the easiest game to learn, but is certainly 
 a very addicting game most of my friends spend their whole day playing on this game and trying 
 to rank up too!
  
  Classes: Most of the time you find a class that will suit you and then you stick with it until 
 you have fully learned to wield the weapon. The classes consist of:
  
  Sniper
  Assault
  Support
  Medic
  Engineer
  Spec Opps
  
  Vehicles: All the Vehicles in this game are unique 
 and fun to use, but some are tougher to use than others like the choppers take some time to learn 
 in, but the jets can be mastered in a day. The Vehicles consist of:
  
  Tanks 
  APCs 
  AA
  Stationary
  Jets
  Choppers
  Transport
  Boats
  
  Weapons: BF 2 has lots of weapons, 
 but you can also unlock weapons like the G36C, F2000, SCARL, DAO, M95, PKM, and the Jackhammer. 
 how to unlock weapons? well you have to rank up for them or puch alt f4 (jk)
  
  New Features: The cool thing about this game is that there is squads so you can Cooperate and work 
 as a group by attacking or defending flags or play as the Commander and turn the tide of Battle 
 by sending orders, supply crates, transport vehicles, UAV, and scan the map for enemy units.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suicidal_Healer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is truely an awesome game to behold. Its extremely addicitive if you love modern 
 day military combat and weapons. But there is a price for perfection. 
  
  Graphics: Truely a master piece in visual design. Everything from weapons to vehicles to even terrain 
 of the maps looks real. Nothing except for a next gen game can match the beauty of its graphics. 
 The only draw back is that you need an awesome rig to run it on full detail, or at least medium-high 
 like I run it at. I had to upgrade my ram and video card to get it to that from all low.
  
  Sound: The USMC, Chinese, and MEC sound like real people. Dice went all out on the sound effects 
 as well, everything from artillery explosions nearby to the sounds of gunfire across the map. And 
 believe it or not, have a good sound card helps to in how you hear the game. Another upgrade of 
 mine was a new sound card to run it on hardware audio from software.
  
  Gameplay: One word sums it up. Fun. With the ability to unlock better weapons as you progress in 
 the global rankings. Each "kit" you can play with, has its own function and usefullness. I prefer 
 to play medic for the ability to heal myself and other players, at the cost of effective firepower. 
 It consists of maps with "CPs" or control points that a team must capture in order to reduce the 
 enemy team's tickets (aloted point the team has in the game) and when it reaches zero for the enemy 
 team or your own, you or they win.
  
  All in all, BF2 is a great in its time and you will be playing this 3 years from now its simply, 
 that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 2.3
Date: Aug 21, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be the biggest waste of money i've seen in a long time.
  
  There are serious balancing issues to this that make frustrating and ultimatley unlikeable to play.
 
  
  It's main reason is the fact that spawn camping with Air support is rife within the online community 
 and there is no way to stop it as the aircraft used are so powerful. essentially this results in 
 lots of spawn deaths that make the game unplayable unless you can get to the plane first.
  
  Also the level design, although open plan, lacks any real visual appeal and offer little in 
 the way of using your environment to your advantage.
  
  Weapons are varied and would be fun to use if only they weren't rendered useless by the unbalanced 
 power of the vehicles.
  
  This is a bad and overhyped game imo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperboy152000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 21, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  simply one of those games that will be played for a long while ( i got the game over a year after 
 it was released and its still very popular) while it does take some time to set-up everything else 
 is purely action, and even though this game does have flaws its mainly EA's fault to begin with... 
 but other then the things that can be fixed with updates and patchs (granted the patch's actually 
 fix flaws without creating' em) . Its surprising how much support is still going into this game 
 even with 2142 a few months away... and i plan on getting that game too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super696
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 19, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  It was the best game ever for like the first 3 months it had come out. Now it is medioucer and 
 boring. It was the game i allways suggested and now it is a game i never wanna talk about. But 
 like i said; it starts off amazing and now it just sucks. Oh and dont buy the expansion pack. It 
 was probably the worst thing i have ever waisted my money on but the booster packs are pretty good. 
 If you do decide to get it make sure you play it with friends cause if you are playing in a server 
 where you dont know anyone it is such a waist of time. Trust me it was a lot of hype at first but 
 it has died now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowboy339
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 19, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  I downloaded Battlefield 2's demo, Call of Duty 2's demo and a number of other tactical shooter 
 demos to see which game is superior. I have to say that Call of Duty 2 was excellent, especially 
 compared to other demos such as Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six demo, War Rock and Joint Operations. HOWEVER, 
 when I played Battlefield 2's demo, which featured a multiplayer sample, it blew away the competition. 
 When you join a squad that works together as a team; the game play is absolutely incredible. It 
 really made the other games look primitive. The sound is fantastic (Call of Duty 2's sound is comparable) 
 and the graphics are excellent if your computer can handle the higher resolution graphics. Another 
 great feature is the VOIP where you can communicate with your squad - excellent feature. After 
 purchasing the full game off Ebay I discovered another great feature - medals, awards , online 
 ranking which amounts to unlocking new weapons which gives you an incentive to play multiplayer 
 apart from the pure enjoyment of the game.
  
  I read about 30 reviews from this site (positive and negative) about BF2 and the following is my 
 reply from buying the Battlefield 2 Deluxe version which I have played from about 2 months now:
 
  
  - Download the demo and see if your computer can handle it without too much lag.
  
  - Join a QUALITY squad and work as a unit. You'll discover what I'm talking about.
  
  - Make 
 your own call instead of coming to a conclusion based on other people's reviews. 
  
  - There's a reason why Battlefield 2 is rated a 9.3 on Gamespot while other tactical shooter games 
 are given lower ratings. 
  
  - I played Battlefield 1942 for about a year prior to BF2 and it's really incredible the improvements 
 that were made on this new edition. 
  
  Anyways, give me your feedback of my review if you'd like.
  
  ................. I'm curious 
 to see how Battlefield's 2142 game is going to be when it comes out this fall??????????????
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ripcord23
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is good in all ways the realism gameplay. you can use alot of weapons an armys. It starts 
 were you get a acount and start rising through the ranks you can also play single player modes 
 witch are fun. you can play as the USMC the PLA MEC and expansions alow you to play as euru force 
 Navy seals SAS and other armys. Maps let you fight in aisa the middiel east USA europe wile playing 
 in battels alot like whans in iraq afganistan. some maps remind me of the movie jarhead or blackhawk 
 down and behind enemy lines. You can fly jets tanks boats and even lead a online battel. If you 
 liked call of duty and medel of honor you well like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipermanic
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  The best game i have ever played and will ever play for a few years to come.
  The gameplay is the best thing about this game, it is never the same, battlefields are always changing 
 in real life and it does on this game. Squad system is a great element in this game, along with 
 the vecihle drop in 1.3 you get a squad and a car and you will literally "pwn". Graphically this 
 game actually feels like you've been dropped into a battle, the sparks as bullets hit metal, the 
 glass all little details help make this game superb.
  
  The moment you join a clan with this game your rolling, just get an additional program such as 
 TS, and you can co-ordiate your attacks easily.
  BF2 is quick to pick up and play as you get hints when you approach something for the 1st time, 
 eg (press your enter button (E) to enter this plane) As you play this game you will usually find 
 your self specialising with a particular vehicle, and when you gain a rank you get a true feeling 
 of satisfaction knowing you and only you acheived that.
  
  All in all get this game, and you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-1000000000000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 19, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  I can really pick many faults with this game, maybe the prices of the booster packs and the lack 
 of players who can take me down, however its such a good game that dilusions of greatness become 
 every player. Some people even try to shout at ea for a faulted game, however, in search of greatness 
 your expect to find and remove all the flaws, no game is flawless, but this game is great!
  
  If you get one game this year, get BattleField 2.
  
  If you get more than one game, get 
 the expansions!
  
  Keep your eyes peeled for more great games and mods using this awesome engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kengi_ikazuchi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 17, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is indeed one of the most immersive FPS multiplayer out there. Unlike what Scratzin said 
 about this game, I had no problems playing it. Although I dont play expansion packs. I bought SF 
 and didnt like it so ignored the rest. But the original w/ out expansion is all I need! My system 
 is only a AMD AthlonXP 3200, 1 GB ram, and ATI 9600xt 64mb and runs GREAT. Though this title may 
 not suit ones who rather play with lasers and plasma guns, it's difitenitly the best realistic 
 shooter. Don't judge the game because of your unlucky system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geom1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  this a fantastic game, battlefield games just keep getting better and better. the graphics are 
 simply golden, gameplay has been enhanced by loads of new features including squad combat and commander 
 features. the maps are absoltely huge, i mean the soldeirs fighting in the game should stop for 
 tea breaks becasue it takes so long to walk from one side to the other if thats your thing. flying 
 aircraft is a lot easier now, especially helicopter flying. what can i say i got a new computer 
 just to play this game, it really is that awesome. i have played this game for several consoles 
 and they just cant compare. get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattdcrocks
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  Bf2 is one of the greatest games i have ever played. Its imersive the levels are huge the vehicles 
 are awsome and the weapons are also very cool. There are many different classes to play as ranging 
 from anti tank to sniper. There are some different maps with a few different armys on them there 
 are a ton of vehicles that you can drive/fly. My favorite is the jet you can bomb enemy tanks whtich 
 is a tough thing to learn but when done right very rewarding. You can also be a commander for your 
 team. you can send down airstrikes give your team a vehicle drop or give them some supplies and 
 you get a ton of points. If you do good in the game you can earn those points go to your global 
 score and you can earn different ranks and unlock more weapons. This game is great 10 out of 10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razza95
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 12, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a very good game and one of the best modern warfare games out there. The gunfire 
 and radio sounds are good for what they are, but the tunes for when maps are loading can get on 
 your nerves. The gameplay is fantastic, though, there's such a variety. There are 7 different kits 
 to choose from from Spec-Ops to Sniper and 4 different ways of getting about the battlefield - 
 on foot, in road vehicles like humvees and tanks, in choppers and even in planes. The graphics, 
 on low or medium quality are OK, but you need an extremely fast PC to run high or very high. I 
 personally don't have a fast PC or high quality graphics, but I've seem them and they're awesome. 
 
  
  The multiplayer is the main aspect of the game and it's great. The points scoring system and ranks 
 are a good way of getting you hooked on the game, as promotions allow you to unlock better guns. 
 However, there is a constant problem with patches from EA. The good thing is they release incremental 
 versions, although they can still be a pain, as more often than not they fix what the previous 
 patch broke. 
  
  Great if you're a fan of war-games, unbeatable if you have a top-notch computer as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cblx1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 12, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is likely one of the best I have ever played. It's graphics are not all that great, unless 
 you have a very fast processor. The games sound is good, however, more music options would have 
 made it better. The overall quality of the game is surprising. At times, it can be addictive, satisfying 
 ones need for blood lust. At other times it can be a retreat from excessive boredom. However, if 
 one were to play this game for over six hours straight, they would find themselves sick of it, 
 and not play it again for a few months. Battlefield 2 is best played for two hours solid on a Sunday, 
 rather then five or ten minutes a day as each battle usually lasts from fifteen to forty-five minutes. 
 The game features a variety of maps, two of my favorites being 'Wake Island 2007,' in which the 
 Chinese army attacks and captures Wake Island, in hopes to slow US supply lines, and 'FuShe Pass,' 
 which is a large map with plenty of sniping spots... There are maps in Iraq and Iran, where one 
 fights the Middle Eastern Coalition, and a few expansion packs, bringing new weapons, vehicles, 
 and even the European Union into the game. 
  
  "Play it, you'll be glad you did!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xfire229
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 20, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  I don't know know how to describe the game that will give it justice, oh i just can't all i wll 
 say it's it's AWESOME!!!
  
  Though the installation progress was a slow painful one, with things you need to register and download 
 and then it doesn't work so you have to uninstall it and install it all over again which is a real 
 drag. And don't get me started with Special Force!
  
  The Game is play like Zones, what you do is get capture a flag around the map, by standing next 
 to it. And the more flags you have the slower you 'tickets' go down, the team which loses all there 
 Tickets first loses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorGamer531
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game immerses you into a real battlefield sized arena with up to sixty-four people 
 playing at one time. With high realism and balanced weapons kits, this game easily ranks as the 
 best first person shooter available. 10
  
  Graphics: Amazing, the high detail rendering of such a large area without any delay in rendering 
 is just simply amazing. Definitely great to look at. 10
  
  Sound: Though loading sounds are repetitive, the actual gameplay sounds are perfect and really 
 put you in the game. 10
  
  Value: The best FPS you can own right now and a must-have for pc gamers. 10
  
  Personally: 
 I love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schfive
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  This is my first Battlefield game and all I can say is that it is just incredible. I am a big military 
 enthusiast and I love that this game uses authentic modern weapons and vehicles, especially the 
 M1 Abrams! The chaos of this game is addicting! I haven't played many other games since I first 
 started playing this game. There's no reason too. The weapons in the game are incredible and so 
 are the vehicles and helis. The only thing I don't like about the game is the amount of realism. 
 I just wish that when the Abrams fired at Russian tank, instead of two or three times, that it 
 would be destryoed on the first shot like it's supposed to. But the vehicles are just great to 
 drive around. Especially the FAVs. Those things are wicked. But so is the Abrams.
  
  Another great thing is that it can be played online with up to 64 players. Which is just incredible 
 from the lousy 16 players on XBox Live. But the maps are also made to complement such larges forces. 
 The maps are ginormous! But luckily, there are quick vehicles to take you around the battlefield. 
 
  
  The weapons are great too. Everything from G36s to FAMASs to Javelins to TOWs is in this game. 
 And they are all rendered very well. Along with everything else. This game is just amazing.
  
  The gameplay is to die for. It is amazing, amazing, amazing. I just can't stop playing this 
 game. I can't write enough good things about this game. I'm going to stop right here so you can 
 stop reading and go buy and play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueAtlas
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 11, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the greatest first person shooter game. The graphics are really spectacular 
 to see. This game is mostly based on online play and is only recommended for those people who have 
 a broadband internet connection or higher. Even though I planned to play this game online, I wished 
 that EA at least included a few single player games. The Physics are incredible in the game and 
 there are an abundent amount of weapons and vehicles present in the game. This game has been out 
 for awhile but it is still very fun to play. An expansion has already been released as well as 
 a few booster packs to keep this game feel fresh and new everytime you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tekmojo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 12, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Most of you know what BF2 is, however I feel like I should update my thoughts in a review for Battlefield 
 2.
  
  The game is truely amazing everytime I play it. I'm bound to have fun when I play this game, but 
 that's just the start of it. I obtained this game last X-Mas, and still enjoy its gameplay. There's 
 nothing better than indulging in the intense battle tactics offered by BF2. From Land, Sea, or 
 Air strike your enemy and have fun doing it. Difficulty is rather forgiving in this game, however 
 it does offer hard-core gamers the chance to dominate in the thousands of servers up and running. 
 Sound is my favorite in this game, it's very realistic and highly enjoyable if you have a set of 
 nice speakers/headphones. Graphics are as every bit of impressive in my opinion. The terrain, models, 
 environment all look exceptionally well. This is a must have game because you can always pick it 
 up and jump into a server whether you have little or no time at all. My only negative reactions 
 towards this game was that the game itself is a extreme comp hog, so make sure u slap in some memory 
 before you take on this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zHELLDOG
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 does offer some fun online play and single player missions, there is one downside 
 to it, while you can order artillery barrages and supply drops, you can't command your squad, which 
 kinda sucks, but at least it kicks the Medal of Honor series' ass. You can use fire and manuever 
 tactics like paratroopers use, and suppressive fire works! On most online games, you can't use 
 tactics because every other player just charges you. Whenever I play online, if I shoot at an enemy 
 soldier, they run for cover like in reality.... and vice versa. Overall, this game offers a fun 
 online expierience that a noob could easily get used to.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryan-82
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  It is amazing. Ive never seen anything better than this. I will always love this game. The glitches 
 and lag are a rpoblem sometimes but the action is great. Its one of the best multiplayers i have 
 ever played. It can be stressful but arent all games? Play different armies in different classes 
 from support to special ops. I give it a 9.8... its just unbeleviable... Now the new ones coming out 
 =) . The new one has even more maps with even more game modes. From origanil to Titan Mode. Its the 
 best modern combat game so far. I will definatly buy the new one and you might as well go buy one. Heck, buy 
 two. You wont regret playing this.
  
  -Ryan
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ripstamk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 9, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  I got the game I got the z-board, when I first fired it up I thought what the bloody hell did I 
 buy this for. I just could not get into it at all but I stuck with it and I sure am glad I did.
 
  Great gameplay which really rewards teamplay.
  Lovely graphics, a little dark in places but overall very nice.
  Sound is superb it really thunders 
 through my medusa 5.1 headset.
  Vehicles are superb to use with a suprisingly good heli control method.
  
  the only let downs 
 with it imo are: 
  
  the ability to turn off dynamic lighting and shadows.
  I know this is there so peeps with lower end systems are able to play but with them turned off 
 you have a massive advantage over players that have them turned on. 
  
  It still has after over a year on the shelves a few gameplay and CDT issues which are being worked 
 on by the patch devs at the mo.
  
  If you are new to the game..... wow it is hard!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhawk42
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 9, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This is the battlefield, here are your weapons, your orders, and those are the enemies. 
  
  Battlefield 2 is simply an amazing shooter, one of the few i found to be enjoyable. Single player 
 is of course not that great, you fight AI that is a bit unchallenging, and control the outposts, 
 just be careful that a squad of the buggers doesn't get too close to an unguarded outpost, or they 
 will end up controlling it. 
  
  Now, the multiplayer! 
  This is intense... no, I don't mean just sometimes... online multiplayer is INTENSE!!! The amount 
 of players in the games alone can make it seem like a real-life battle (at least it did for me) . 
 But, yeah, this is the upside of this game. 
  
  The graphics are really good if you have a good video card. I haven't tried it with any other card, 
 since I got the Geforce 7600, but you shouldn't have a problem finding a card for this game to 
 make it run decently. The sound is great, making it real-life sounding. Entertainment is high, 
 it gets addicting after a couple days. The only flaw I had with this FPS is that it takes so long 
 to kill someone, and when you're shooting them, it doesn't really show them bleeding or any acknowledgement 
 that they are getting hurt. But you get used to that, and what a fun time you'll have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  With this game on hand, the Battlefield series is getting spun around (again) . This time the spinner 
 lands on the 'modern-day battlefield' scenario rather than on the fields of Vietnam or some WWII 
 setting. I'll try to be straightforward with this review:
  
  BACKGROUND: As a recruit with a choice to be any of the various types of soldiers (Medic, Assault, 
 Special Ops, Engineer, Support, Sniper, Anti-Tank....) , you're thrown into a 'huge' map to fight 
 as either 1 of 3 different nationalities (Chinese, American or Middle Eastern Coalition) . The game 
 mode is called 'Conquest'. You must select your weapon-of-choice and type of soldier before fighting 
 and also the spawn point. The whole point of the round/match is to try to control more 'nodes', 
 or flagged area points, on the map for your team. This will eventually drain out the starting score 
 (called 'tickets') of your opponent and you'll win the round by doing so. You can use a whole variety 
 of weapons (in addition to the weapon selection you made prior to battle, you can only use 1 weapon 
 pack) as well as a whole range of vehicles.
  
  A similarity of this game mode can be found with Unreal Tournament 2004's 'Onslaught' mode, minus 
 the powercore.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Because of having virtually one game mode (Conquest) , the gameplay isn't too strong. Despite this 
 drawback, this should not keep you away. Battlefield 2 has a ranking system, unlockables and medal 
 rewards . When you first play the game, you start out with a rank of Private. In addition, during 
 play, a Commander must be chosen. The commander has the ability to see all enemy positions, drop 
 supplies and vehicles and give out orders to squads.
  
  You can fight your way up to the ranks such as Corporal-Sergeant-Lieutenant etc.. and get ribbons/medals 
 for your actions on the battefield. For everytime you advance to the next rank, you can unlock 
 one weapon of your choice. Graphics:
  
  Quite good. A slight improvement from Battlefield Vietnam. Mid-range cards should do the trick 
 here for this game. I should mention that the water graphics looks realistic.
  
  Sound:
  
  Fairly good as well. The sound of the weapons firing are decent and you can hear a gunfight 
 raging in the distance.
  
  Negatives:
  
  1) One game-mode that people play (gets boring after a while)
  2) Some crash bugs from time to 
 time as well as occasional lag. 3) Lousy single-player with dumb bots. You can argue that this 
 game was meant for online gaming.
  4) Very few maps for even having one game mode. Couldn't EA give us 15 or something to keep us 
 happy (to avoid buying those expansion packs) ?
  
  Positives: 1) Fun ranking and reward system (this should keep you addicted for some time)
  2) 
 Intense fire/vehicle fights with whole range of weapons and vehicles.
  3) Nice addition with the Commander mode, which should add more to the detail and excitement.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Battlefield 2 is a game created for online play and so it is meant for online play (and nothing 
 else) . Though it does not dethrone Unreal Tournament 2004 in terms of multiplayer content and without 
 thinking about having only one game mode, Battlefield 2 is still an intense modern-day warfare 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boriscoolman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 8, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This game has one of the best multiplayer gameplay ever. The graphics=great, the sound=great, gameplay=great, 
 tilt=great, value=depends on what kind of person you are. The only flaws in this game are the singleplayer 
 and that this game is not very rewarding. You could only unlock one weapon per rank, and there 
 are not very many weapons to be unlocked. The multiplayer is bad because of the AI and that you 
 could only play single player on 16 player maps, BUT buy this game anyway because the only thing 
 that matters is the multiplayer. Some people could get tired of playing this game because of its 
 limit, but if you are really in war games and games with a lot of intensity in them, this is the 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VFlex69
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  What can be better than diving into an action filled, bullet whistling battlefield with a heavy 
 tank, a lethal battle heli or a humvee full of trusty men? - pretty much nothing... Though I can 
 sure tell you what can be worse, much worse. 
  
  For example, what about, when someone steals a jet you've been waiting since the beginning of the 
 round? When someone making the radio comm explode with "ive spotted a boat" meassage, or teamkilling 
 you because you accidently pointed your AK at him? And of course, our good ol'friend called "bunny 
 hopping", whitch is still not a small issue now, two patches after it has been spotted as a great 
 "skillbreaker" and were targeted for fixing.
  
  The technical issue is a buggery one here, its been more then a year since the release, there were 
 more than 5 patches released and there is still one coming, which in my opinion, wont be the last. 
 Considering the game to be a second one in the serie, it shouldnt have taken\take so much time 
 to finally get the game together.
  
  If its not the described above, this game would be just about PERFECT. But anyway, the game takes 
 you on a pretty rough, fun filled, "blackhawkdown"ish ride.
  
  If you are really into FPS, and the line "BOOM! Headshot" is all you are about, you must have BF2 
 on your shelf.
  
  Regards, VflexXx69 \ Ma. S. Tro. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krow_xxvii
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I have played FPS since the the days of CS 1.6. I played CS and DOD constantly. When CS: Source 
 and DOD: Source came out, I thought FPS couldn't possibly get any better. Well, MMOFPS has reached 
 a new level with Battlefield 2.
  
  Battlefield 2 is primarily an online multi-player FPS. Similar to CS and DOD, you are in first-person 
 view with an easily understandable HUD and a view of your currently equipped weapon. There are 
 a number of differences between BF2 and CS.
  
  (1) Rank: As you play BF2, you can achieve awards and rank progress. You begin as a Private, and 
 as you play your rank progress will go up until you reach Private First Class. You can view your 
 rank progress by clicking on the BFHQ button at the top left corner of the main menu. Also, as 
 you play and try to get your rank up, you will be given awards depending on what class you play 
 the most. If you play as Support for a period of time, get a number of kills or a number of Support 
 points, you will eventually be given the Basic Support award. Each class can be given awards.
 
  
  I really like the Rank system, because it's almost like playing an RPG. The time you put into the 
 game is rewarded with a number of rewards. It gives you rank, badges, ribbons, etc. I can't seem 
 to quit playing the game because I want to achieve my next rank.
  
  Also, once you reach Lance Corporal, you can unlock your first locked weapon. Some of the locked 
 weapons are unbelievably cool. I just unlocked the DAO-12, a semi-automatic shotgun which holds 
 12 rounds at a time. It's a truly devistating weapon to my opponents.
  
  (2) Vehicles: The other element of BF2 which puts it in its own class away from CS or DOD is the 
 vehicles. You can pilot anything from tanks to helicopters, or jet aircraft to boats, and stationary 
 anti-aircraft missle launchers to stationary machine guns.
  
  The vehicles can sometimes become frustrating. Take it from a seasoned CS player: when I'm used 
 to being on foot and fighting toe-to-toe with other players, now I turn a corner and I'm looking 
 down the barrel of an enemy tank. What do you do? Chances are you won't have a chance to turn and 
 run, because a tank missle can travel a lot faster than you can. Instead, charge the tank and hope 
 they don't see you.
  
  My favorite thing to do in this scenario is this: as Special Forces class, you are given Remote 
 Detonated C4 so you can demolish enemy artillery. When an enemy tank is looking the other way, 
 run up behind them, drop a couple C4 packs on the tank, switch to the detonator and high-tail it 
 out of there. Detonate the C4! It's a lot of fun getting kills that way, and you'll also get Defend 
 Flag points if the tank was trying to capture your flag.
  
  There are so many elements to this game that I believe puts it into a class of its own.
  
  
 This game is definitely worth the $39.99 (or $49.99 for the Deluxe Edition) . Go out and buy it 
 now. It's got everything a good MMOFPS should have, and some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xploded
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  Hey agian,
  If you look at the system specs, yeah this game is pretty heavy. But the CAN YOU RUN IT button 
 helps, for me atleast, so anyways just looking at the detailed maps is fun. This game defently 
 deserves credit, and if you like FpS get it. Ofcourse some people who played the console version 
 of the game (battlefield 2 modern combat) say it sucks. Its not true, they screwed up the console 
 version. Its like callofduty2 and COD2: Big red One. So anyways, the single player bots can get 
 boring sometimes, that said, they will get boring. But the multiplayer brings up to 64 people fun. 
 Instant action, one of the best fps made.
  thanks for reading.
  xploded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirian808
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 6, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 9/10
  This is probably one of the best first-person shooters I've ever played for any console. You have 
 the option of playing under the flags of three different countries: the US Marines, the People's 
 Army of China, or the Middle East Coalition. 
  
  All of the armies have seven different classes, five from BF1942 and two new ones: Special Forces, 
 who are armed with C4s and a wickedly accurate gun, Enigineers, carrying shotguns, anti-tank mines, 
 and a wrench that can fix any machine, Assaults, with a powerful machine gun and not much else, 
 Medics, who have a fairly good gun, a medic pack to heal people, and defibrillators which can either 
 revive your fallen allies or give your opponents a lethal shock, Snipers, who are equipped with 
 claymore mines and (of course) a sniper rifle, Support, stocked with a 200-round machine gun and 
 ammo resupply packs, and Anti-Tanks, who get a machine gun and a rocket launcher. All of the classes 
 also come with knives and pistols (although Special Forces and Snipers have a silencer on theirs) .
 
  
  Also new to the series is Commander Mode. This is, by far, my favorite addition. One player volunteers 
 to become the commander, who has a map of the level and the ability to call in artillery strikes, 
 supply drops, UAV overflights, and, introduced in patch 1.3, a vehicle drop. Being commander also 
 means that you can boss your squads around, since you also have a satellite scan of the enemies 
 that nobody else can see. So remember: commander knows best. Another perk of commanding is that 
 if you win, your points are multiplied by two.
  
  Another awesome addition is the online stat tracking. You can now progress through the ranks of 
 the US Marine Corps, starting out as a lowly Private and advancing all the way up to a Four-Star 
 General. Every round your points are added up (your points consist of kills, kill assists, driver 
 kill assists, capturing flags, neutralizing flags, defending flags, healing teammates, reviving 
 teammates, repairing stuff, and resupplying teammates (whew) ) and added to a running total. Prepare 
 to invest some serious time into the game if you plan to make your way all the way up. You can 
 also earn medals for accomplishing different tasks, for example, ten kills as a Special Forces 
 in a round earns you a Basic Special Forces badge. A 1:4 K: D ratio will earn you a Purple Heart.
 
  
  Vehicles are still around, with new family members: helicopters and amphibious tanks. Jets are 
 a little bit overpowered, however, and they take a lot of practice to be useful. Stationary rocket 
 launcers are added, and mounted AA guns make an upgraded return: they now lock on to targets.
 
  
  As far as maps go, there is enough variety to keep any gamer interested. But the real fun comes 
 in multiplayer, the only place where your stats can be tracked. My only compaint is that the loading 
 times are hellaciously long sometimes.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8/10
  It's definetely a piece of eye candy. To fully enjoy the games amazing graphical capabilities on 
 High, however, your system will need to be really high-end. My computer runs Medium flawlessly, 
 and even Low settings don't look half-bad. You won't find anything completely revolutionary here, 
 but they're at least worthy of some recognition.
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  The sound here is good, but it doesn't have that great theme that BF1942 did. Well, actually, there 
 is a sort of rendition on it, but it's just not the same.
  
  In the sound effects department, it scores highly, with realistic gun sounds and commands given 
 in the language of the army you're playing. I especially liked the artillery sounds.
  
  VALUE: 9/10
  This game has an excellent replayability factor, and I had no problem slapping down 
 $50 for it. New patches seem to constantly be worked on, so there won't be a shortage of maps or 
 modes any time soon, I presume. There are also some impressive mods for the game, don't forget 
 to check those out.
  
  TILT: 9/10
  EA and DICE did a fantastic job on this one. My only hope is that BF2142 will have the same quality 
 and effort poured into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LPDisciple01
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  This game is fun all around. And the multiplayer prepares you for hours of fun, even after you've 
 beaten the whole game. A nice touch they added in is the commands and things that get screamed 
 out during the battle. I think the flight is a bit less fun than in 1942 because of all the lock 
 ons, but it's still good. The helicopter and support are also welcome additions. The global unlocks 
 also add a certain extra something to the gameplay. The realistic physics is also a really nice 
 thing they added. Also the artillery strikes are a welcome change. I think it just overall (except 
 for flight) outclasses the original, and certainly Vietnam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --Playstation --
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- 10/10
  
  Fun as hell tactics, with a high level of physical realisticness. The player gets tired from running 
 too much, and moves at a realistic pace. Major fun with all of the different types of classes, 
 with each one having its slight advantages and disadvantages. Flying is my favorite part of the 
 game, and It feels so nice when you're high up, bombing a base all by yourself. Flying choppers 
 are also grand.
  
  Graphics- 10/10
  
  The graphics are almost realistic. The water textures are beautiful, player models lifelike, and 
 the weapons are realistic. This game is as pretty as it is fun.
  
  Sound-10/10
  
  The sound in this game is excellent. Your player makes a noise when hurt, and the radio transmissions 
 are clear and concise.
  
  Value- 9/10
  
  This game will keep you going. You will want to be the best. However, it has its boring spots in 
 which I lost interest.
  
  Tilt- 9/10
  
  Great tilt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_paki
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 21, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  I think it is safe to say that this is my favorite PC game ever. I'll tell you from know: by no 
 means should you even try the single player in this game. Skip it, and head straight to the mind 
 blowingly good multiplayer. First off, you choose your team, your server, your map, and so on. 
 There are several different classes of soldiers including Special Forces, Sniper, Medic, ect. Once 
 in the game, you can either join a squad, or play on your own. They pretty much drop you in a sand 
 box styled war zone with 64 people and make you fight for points. There are loads of vehicles, 
 aircrafts, and even boats to help you get to your destination. The gameplay is extremly solid and 
 immersive, and once you start getting bombed, killing people, and parachuting out of jets, you 
 really feel like your in the game. The sound and graphical quality are top notch and same goes 
 for character animation and so on. It is hard to say how great this game is, you really have to 
 play it for yourself. To sum it up, it is an addictive, fun, war game with infinite replay value 
 and great multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonLeebz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 was my very first multiplayer online FPS PC game and even to this day I enjoy it. 
 The ability to select weapon classes allows the player to have access to a plethora of weapons 
 and special capabilities such as unlimited ammo or health die to the medic or support class. The 
 large arsenal of vehicles play a critical role in working as a team to get around the maps quickly 
 and efficiently, and can also be a lot of fun for just crashing in a game or doing whatever. The 
 only downside is people who abuse the vehicles and camp the spawn points and such, but it is all 
 part of the game. Overall I would highly advise you to purchase this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smartmatt
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  When I open this Battlefield I was glad I did. It is the best looking and fun game play.
  
  The Good: Fun online player and single player, I like that you can go up in rank as you play more 
 online, Get to be a member on a squad.
  
  The Bad: Indeed a top of the line computer just to run the game, sometimes the online severs slow 
 down or skip a little.
  
  But over all this is the best BF game that I have played. I strongly recommend this game to people 
 how heard or not heard of BF2. I can't wait until BF 2142 comes out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MooseBoys
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 30, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Since its release, Battlefield 2 has encountered numerous glitches, bugs, and hacks. Despite its 
 utilization of PunkBuster, which kicks players who use cheats and hacks, thousands of players still 
 manage to cheat, hack, and use exploits. The majority of the frustration of the game is encountered 
 thru glitches and bugs, such as glitchy hitboxes, so it can appear you got a headshot, but it won't 
 register. These minor, but annoying glitches are overshadowed by the occasional aim hack or command 
 hacker (a hidden commander who uses a hack to let them drop unlimited artillery strikes anywhere 
 on the map) .
  So far, EA has been terrible at fixing the glitches and preventing the hacks. the 1.3 patch actually 
 broke more than it fixed. 1.4 can't come soon enough.
  Everything considered, however, BF2 is one of my favorite games and definitely worth purchasing 
 in my opinion. Same with special forces. Don't bother with Euro Force or Armored Fury expansions, 
 though. They suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Beckham
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 30, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a class-based multiplayer game with vehicles -- tanks, apcs, boats, jets, helicopters, 
 attack helicopters, buggies and jeeps. there are 7 classes- spec ops, sniper, assault , support, 
 medic, engineer, and anti-tank. you play as either the US, Middle Eastern Coaliton, or China and 
 the only game mode is conquest.. where there are flag areas all over the map and it is your job 
 to capture them and the more you hold the more tickets (spawns) the other team losses and when 
 their tickets run out you win. you can play 16, 32 or 64 player maps (8v8, 16v16 or 32v32) the 
 smaller maps don't have jets but that is about it. the game is arcade style and it takes 2 or 3 
 sniper shots to kill someone unless you get a headshot.. but if you have the MEC SVD it is so inaccurate 
 you will mostly use it as a semiauto run and gun rifle.. the game is also very poorly supported 
 in terms of patches and performance issues.. the newest patch 1.3 has more bugs than the game originally 
 did. the game is much better when people work as squads and move together.. but alot of the time 
 the fun is ruined by everyone running around independently and driving off with apcs or transport 
 helicopters comepletely empty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattheweakspot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 29, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  well where do i start. I mean battlefield 2 was a big leap for ea and to be bleak it payed off 
 for them. Sure the multiplayer ea servers are crap but most of the time your not playing on a official 
 ea server thanks to the people renting and making thier own servers so thats good. The multiplayer 
 itsself is lots of fun and there is a guarantee that the same thing will not happen everytime you 
 play. BUT when you have played it for a while you tend to get tired of capturing the flag and you 
 just want some other gameplay mode to play on and enjoy. The single player mode is good for first 
 timers to practice and find thier feet before playing the bots are smart and intelligent so they 
 will provide entertaining gameplay but challenging.
  
  Overrall Battlefield 2 is a excellent game with lots to do and have fun but not if you want a game 
 whith lots of different modes of play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zappa02
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  
  This game is amzaing There will be doubters and naysayers who will claim that Battlefield 2 is 
 just an incremental upgrade from its famous predecessors, or that it only offers a marginal improvement 
 over the popular Desert Combat mod for Battlefield 1942. Ignore them, because they couldn't be 
 more wrong. EA and Digital Illusions' cutting-edge and highly awaited sequel is everything that 
 it's supposed to be and more. Battlefield 2 is a thrilling testament to how great PC gaming can 
 be. It packs unmatched gameplay, impressive visuals, and endless replayability in one exquisite 
 package. And it's, by far, the most fun that we've had with a PC game this year. Battlefield 2 
 elevates the excitement and action from its illustrious predecessors by making you feel like part 
 of an actual elite military squad in battle. Contrary to its name, Battlefield 2 is actually the 
 third game in the Battlefield series, and, on the surface, it sticks closely to the formula established 
 in the previous two games. In it, two teams of up to 32 players each battle it out for supremacy 
 on huge virtual battlefields, taking the fight to one another on foot, in a vehicle, on sea, and 
 in the air. This time around, though, you'll have the opportunity to take modern weapons and equipment 
 into the fray, as the game is based in a near-future, hypothetical conflict that pits the forces 
 of the United States, China, and the fictional Middle Eastern Coalition in mortal combat with one 
 another. Strangely enough, Battlefield 2 ships with just one gameplay mode, but the conquest mode 
 is what made Battlefield what is today. Conquest is essentially a sprawling, king-of-the-hill-style 
 game with multiple control points (doubling as spawn points) scattered on the map. Each team gets 
 a limited number of tickets, or spawns, to draw upon in the battle for control of these points. 
 The winner is the side that can either capture all the control points and eliminate the opposing 
 team entirely, or whittle down the opposing team's tickets to zero. It's a fairly simple formula, 
 but it sets the stage for the wild and memorable virtual battles that take place. The beauty of 
 Battlefield 2 is the fact that, like its predecessors, it has a totally unpredictable nature to 
 it. It's completely unscripted and chaotic, but in an awesome way. There are simply so many insane, 
 over-the-top moments that can happen in a single game that you quickly lose track. In any given 
 match, you can have a dozen desperate firefights, countless moments when a rocket or bullet whizzes 
 by your head, and the proud sense of accomplishment when you and your squad overcome the odds and 
 achieve your objective. You'll see feats of audacious daring as someone flies a helicopter through 
 a city's streets or runs up to plant explosives on an enemy tank that's mowing down your colleagues. 
 You'll experience the hellish shelling of artillery, see the desperate revival of wounded colleagues, 
 and be killed a dozen grisly ways. And yet, through it all, you'll find yourself coming back for 
 more.
  
  What makes Battlefield 2 better than its predecessors, though, is that there's much more of an 
 attempt to instill some method to this madness. Battlefield 2 is full of excellent new features 
 designed to make coordinating your efforts a lot easier. First up is the new voice-over IP system, 
 which means that real-time voice capability is built into every single copy of the game. There 
 simply is no excuse not to get a headset and start talking with your buddies, because even though 
 Battlefield 2 does offer an improved keyboard-based communications system, nothing beats the power 
 of being able to instantly and effortlessly communicate with your teammates. The voice system in 
 Battlefield 2 is simple to set up and use, and you no longer have to fiddle around with conflicting 
 third-party solutions.
  More critically, it's the voice-chat system in Battlefield 2 that's important. Rather than have 
 64 players swamp a single channel with nonstop chatter and taunts, the voice system is instead 
 integrated heavily into the concept of a commander and squads, which are both new features in the 
 game. In earlier Battlefield games, you simply ran around as part of an unorganized mob, with little 
 coordination between players. Battlefield 2 solves this by letting you organize into squads that 
 come under the leadership of a single commander. In other words, a team of 32 players could split 
 up to potentially form five or six squads consisting of five to six players each, with one player 
 coordinating all the efforts as a commander. This fundamentally changes the nature of the game 
 from having a bunch of lone wolves running around to having coordinated combat teams working together 
 to get the job done. Here's how it works. Armed with a real-time, top-down view of the battlefield, 
 along with a number of powerful abilities, the commander can keep an eye on the big picture. The 
 commander can scan the battlefield for enemy forces, deploy spy drones on the map that transmit 
 data to all the members of the team, air-drop supply crates that rearm and heal adjacent units, 
 and drop powerful artillery barrages onto enemy positions. The commander also issues orders to 
 squad leaders, who have the job of carrying the orders out. The squad is much more than a handful 
 of players, thanks to the potent squad abilities. Since you can spawn on your squad leader (so 
 long as he is alive) , the ability to create a sort of roving, self-supporting combat team is possible, 
 especially if a team has a medic or two to keep the squad on its feet. The voice-chat system automatically 
 filters all communication, so if you're in a squad, you can only talk with your fellow squad members. 
 Squad leaders can talk to their squad on one channel and use another channel to communicate with 
 the commander. And the commander can only talk to squad leaders. Thus, orders have a way of trickling 
 down the chain of command, while requests go up the chain from the squad leader to the commander 
 (like they do in real-life militaries) .
  
  One of the great new features is the ability to keep a permanent character who gains rank and medals 
 over time. Rank gives you priority to be commander, while medals are simply cool to collect.
  
  When this system is clicking, it makes Battlefield 2 simply a transcendent experience unlike 
 anything we've experienced before. While other games have incorporated concepts such as squads 
 and commanders, none have combined them in such a brilliantly designed and executed way. The ability 
 to only chat with your squadmates can create a sort of instant personal camaraderie, even when 
 the sound of bullets, explosions, and artillery surrounds you. At times, you'll find yourself yelling 
 for a medic, telling a buddy to cover you while you sprint across an open patch, or quickly organizing 
 an impromptu assault on an enemy. It's so easy and tempting to fall into role-playing mode when 
 playing this game. We found moments when, as squad leader, we requested permission from the commander 
 to go after an enemy target. Or, when we were attacking an enemy control point, we screamed, "Go, 
 go, go," and the squad rushed in just moments after an artillery barrage softened the objective, 
 the dust from the explosions still thick in the air. The sensation that you're actually fighting 
 as a unit is simply immersive and gripping. In fact, the only thing missing is the ability to keep 
 some kind of friends or buddies list. This is something that you'll desperately want once you've 
 played with a great squad and want to play alongside them in future battles.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtizio
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 28, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  EA and DICE deliver the shock and awe of a mighty sequel, reaffirming Battlefield's status as the 
 king of combined-arms team play.
  
  Great maps with well-balanced vehicles and weapons. Rewarding team play. Great team organization 
 tools. Full stats tracking.
  
  Battlefield 2 is, obviously, the sequel to the highly successful Battlefield 1942 and Battlefield: 
 Vietnam. Whereas the Vietnam game was developed by DICE Canada, Battlefield 2 is the home-brewed 
 product of the original Swedish team. It features a brand-new game engine with graphics and sound 
 that are obviously far superior to the original, but the core game play ideas are still there.
 
  
  In fact, one's initial impressions could be that this is a Desert Combat-like mod with pretty graphics, 
 but there are some key differences that make it a new game play experience, though they require 
 player co-operation. In the main, however, this is still your friendly neighborhood Battlefield 
 game and DICE has certainly not messed with the formula.
  
  For those few of you who haven't played a Battlefield title, I will briefly recap that. The Battlefield 
 series is a relaxed realism combined arms shooter that takes place on servers that range anywhere 
 from 16 to 64 players, typically striking a good balance in the middle at 32. Players spawn as 
 infantry of several kinds of classes, and can continue as infantry or find a vehicle to use. Usable 
 craft include buggies, hummvees, armored personnel carriers, tanks, helicopters, jet aircraft and 
 light overboard motorboats.
  
  The core Battlefield game is still the same: it's a first-person shooter with land, sea, and air 
 vehicles where two teams compete over key points on the map. The action is fast-paced, and while 
 realistic weapons and locations are featured, fun always takes precedence over simulation.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 28, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  Battlefield is a multiplayer game similar to Team Fortress that lets you pick the role of a soldier, 
 sniper, medic and many more. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Pros - The aiming system is easy to use, like many first person shooters. The objective for a team 
 to complete is very clear and is challenging to accomplish. 
  Cons - The weapon selection system is just crap. You have to choose spawn points. 
  
  Graphics:
 
  Pros - The landscape is shaded correctly and water looks realistic. The textures were constructed 
 to a very high standard which makes surfaces look realistic. 
  Cons - There were no bullet holes or any type of decals anywhere. The water was also too blue. 
 
  
  Sound:
  Pros - The sound appropriately corresponded to what caused it. Gunshots sound like gunshots. Impacts 
 of artillery shells made huge explosions. But it's still possible to play without sound. 
  Cons - There is a stuttering problem. 
  
  Value:
  This game will keep you entertained for 
 weeks, just like CS or TFC did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FirebladeC
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a well addictive Online and Single player action FPS game full of feature's mostly 
 online features, Battlefield 2 allows you choose from three countries of warfare the US, China 
 and the Middle East all have their own wepaon's and equipment along with vehicles on each map. 
 Not forgetting that this is an Online game so an Internet connection is required but apart from 
 that and once you get in, its a very well played game using tactical work and striking methods 
 you can work your way in the rank's and maybe even join clan's with a wide community you wont miss 
 out in any of the action that is available.
  
  The Gameplay use your standard HUD feature's showing you your weapon, map and Health along with 
 info on the leading Country/Team you can choose how you want to play the game theres no campaign 
 to go through and no restriction's well expect if you go too far from the map you'll be shot down, 
 also depend's on the rule's of the game but apart from those no restriction's, the weapon of choice 
 is your decision from a range of different Soldier Kit's you can choose your part toward's the 
 Battle be part of the Special Force's, be a solo Sniper or Assault head on, perhap's you might 
 want to Support ally's with ammo, repair damaged vehicles as a Enginer or would rather help your 
 ally's with health as a Medic or maybe you'd want to strike where it hurt's as an Anti-Tank. Other 
 feature's include the sentence Use what you see meaning that if you see a Car, Tank, Plane, Boat, 
 Machine Gun or Rocket Launcher then run to it and use it help you get your destination or attack 
 enemy vehicles or troops any weapon can kill another nice feature is the Ranking the more you play 
 online the better rank that you can gain through out the online gameplay and also another feature 
 used in both Online and Singleplayer gaming is the Commander and Squad's if you feel your best 
 out of everyone then apply to become Commander of your team or create Squad's with team mate's, 
 hey its a wide commmunity why not make friend's while your at it. Graphic's there are excellent 
 even if you have a low spec PC you can still enjoy the nice effect's seen in this game and if you 
 have a High Spec PC then you'll enjoy it even more with option's choose to suit your PC's capability. 
 Lifespan, you could play this game for quite some year's and if no one's online then advange of 
 the singleplayer difficult level's for that extra practice and then test your skill's online trying 
 to become your very best, its not impossible in this game its all just to have fun.
  
  Overall Battlefeild 2 is Superb game with Online gaming and Single player gaming roled into one 
 along with the excellent graphic's even though released over a year ago it still keeps the Online 
 FPS action still alive and its a still kept the greatness of the First Battlefield, 1942 through 
 out the years to come and if you enjoyed playing all the previous Battlefield game's then this 
 Sequel that is diffently worth it, just rember to update it with the latest patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Port5
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 25, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  It depends on what you're playing it for. If you are going to play some multiplayer, then I would 
 recommend it. Not just for single player. There is no campaign, just maps, unlike the earlier games 
 in the series. It gets old really fast, to warn you. But if you're getting it for multiplayer, 
 I say go for it. It's worth every penny. But graphics are an issue too. You need to have up to 
 date everything, really, to run this game even ok. But, like I said, think about it before you 
 buy it, because multiplayer is the only thing that this game has in store for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 1, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  I was worried so much after I bought this thing used on eBay as people were attacking the Singleplayer 
 and the SP AI sooooo bad. I have come to learn not to listen to others opinions much, the bot AI 
 is great (though it can sometimes be dumb on easy, dont hesitate and watch them or u'll regret 
 it!) I must say that if you are playing singleplayer... skip Armored Fury and Euro force unless 
 you really want it and get this alone and donwload Allied Intent .2, Mercenaries 8.0&8.5 or Hard 
 Justice, they make this game superb on singleplayer with simply massive, massive, massive levels 
 with jets, helos, armor & APCs and much more. I do feel that sometimes armor can be a little too 
 overpowering to infantry but I might be wrong in terms of reality. I play this game whenever I 
 get the chance and it is one of the only games were I have seen the AI actually counter your attacks 
 and switch their weapons rather than run for more ammo. Go buy it and get SF wha'll ur at it!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bczican015
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 23, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a tactical first person shooter for the PC. This game combines the First person 
 action that all gamers have grown to love, and the tactical stratagy of a Real Time Stratagy game. 
 With the ability to issue orders to soldiers then be at the battle, and try to throw it in your 
 favor, this game captures the chaos of combat on a level its never been at before.
  
  Lets talk game essentials.
  Graphics are un-diniably, some of the best PC graphics that money 
 can buy. The textures, worlds, and weapons. Look great. The smoldering of a destroyed tank, and 
 the splash of the water as an Armor-Piercing 110mm High Velocity round punches into it, all beautiful. 
 Fires, Explosions, Bullet impacts, and dust effects. All look realistic, and Believeable. The blurred 
 vision and dialated sound the player experiances after a tank shell goes off next to them adds 
 to the Battlefield Charm, and makes players almost wanting to be shot at by a tank. Almost.
  
  Sounds. Great. Diverse. Detailed. The weapons each sound diffrent, the sounds of the many vehicles 
 allows the player to assess what vehicle lies around the corner before they see it. Sounds are 
 that diverse. The sound of a helicopter as it approaches the players team from behind is like listening 
 to the devils voice. As it should be.
  The speech chat system works great, and flows naturally. If the player wishes to order an attack, 
 the motion of selecting the order is fluid. And the voices add better comprehension, as does the 
 microphone feature. So players can yell insults, back and forth. 
  
  Multiplayer. The multiplayer in this game can be described in one word. Perfect. A diverse array 
 of maps, gametypes, and soldier options keep the player entertained for hours upon hours upon hours. 
 The variety of medals the player can earn is vast. As is the rewards and unlockables system. The 
 game bases the multiplayer on the skill level of the players. Basicly, in order to win. You have 
 to be skilled. Instead of most multiplayer games that require you to be only lucky.
  
  Lets talk game Dynamics.
  Singleplayer is fun, And is good practice. But leaves a lot to be disired. 
 But Battlefield 2 is centered almost completely on multiplayer. So the single player attribute 
 of the game doesnt have to be all that great. But it is, nonetheless.
  
  Playability. This game can easilty be played for years. And it is, and the player will always find 
 new expansions, adventures, and great little moments in the game itself that will keep them hooked. 
 The game offers a very small but still applicable social aspect as well. People can easily make 
 friends and battle buddies over this games unique voice chat feature. And the players do. The squads 
 are like a faimly, everyone takes care of eachother.
  
  In conclution, Battlefield 2 surpasses all multiplayer game standreds set by previous games. This 
 game is a Must Have for any sole multiplayer gamer. The game also brings out the brotherly love 
 experianced in war. Taking care of your squad brothers. Weather it be patching them up, re-filling 
 thier ammo, Or teamkilling them and taking thier bazooka. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opulous
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 22, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I am about to point out 2 things in this review. The first one, to show how great BF2 is for 5 
 minutes then becomes complete trash. The 2, to show you just how crap multiplayer games are. Ok, 
 lets begin by starting with my first point. BF2 is, quite simply, painfully limited. Sure, being 
 blasted by that tank and seeing your vision and hearing go blurry for a minute is cool at the start, 
 but then it becomes quite a nuciance later on. Your ''kit'' is, again, limited. Your standard kit 
 usually consists of a rifle, pistol and grenade. Thats it. Holy heck, if the US soldiers in Iraq 
 had this much equipment, then no wonder they are dropping like flies! Exceptions go to the enginner 
 and Special Forces kit. Still not very different though. The AI is **** aswell. If it's soldiers 
 keep being shot at a specific outpost, then they don't even bother to order them to go around it. 
 It's like a reconstruction of WW1. The graphics arn't very incredible aswell. The only ''good'' 
 part of the graphics is the way the mud comes up after that shell from that tank hit the ground. 
 Now, 2 point. Multiplayer is ****. Clean and clear. Pure and simple. Black and white. Playing with 
 people just is not rewarding. Not only do you have to wait an hour for someone to be arsed to play 
 with you, but you are always left out in those join it games, players believeing in that ''first 
 come first serve'' idea. Overall, the most crappy combination of elements I have ever seen in a 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 007Master7
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 22, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a class-based multiplayer game with vehicles -- tanks, apcs, boats, jets, helicopters, 
 attack helicopters, buggies and jeeps. there are 7 classes- spec ops, sniper, assault , support, 
 medic, engineer, and anti-tank. you play as either the US, Middle Eastern Coaliton, or China and 
 the only game mode is conquest.. where there are flag areas all over the map and it is your job 
 to capture them and the more you hold the more tickets (spawns) the other team losses and when 
 their tickets run out you win. you can play 16, 32 or 64 player maps (8v8, 16v16 or 32v32) the 
 smaller maps don't have jets but that is about it. the game is arcade style and it takes 2 or 3 
 sniper shots to kill someone unless you get a headshot.. but if you have the MEC SVD it is so inaccurate 
 you will mostly use it as a semiauto run and gun rifle.. the game is also very poorly supported 
 in terms of patches and performance issues.. the newest patch 1.3 has more bugs than the game originally 
 did. the game is much better when people work as squads and move together.. but alot of the time 
 the fun is ruined by everyone running around independently and driving off with apcs or transport 
 helicopters comepletely empty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leoisfat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 22, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is amazing. Playing online is just the best. Being able to enter any vehicle whether 
 it's a heli, a jet, a jeep, or a tank is just amazing. The guns in this game are pretty cool too. 
 The different choices like special ops, assault, support, is great. (Medic all the way!) . Then 
 online you move up many ranks unlocking better guns as you move up and win ribbons and medals. 
 Unfortunatley their are only a few levels which i think are actually fun. But this game is really 
 fun, i defenitely recommend this game IF YOU ARE GONNA PLAY ONLINE!!!!!!!!! If you will not play 
 online then i highly recommend you do not buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 20, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Wow, just wow. Thats the words that comes to mind when I think about this game. For the longest 
 time I wasn't able to buy this game because of my lacking PC, but now I can and I love it. There 
 is alot to this game, and to master it you have to be quick on your feet and you have to think 
 on your toes. Tactics and Teamwork are a must in order to complete your objectives and win the 
 round!
  
  The graphics are amazing on "high" settings. They are pretty good on med. and not so good on low, 
 but for those who can only run it on low, its still better then the alternative (not running it 
 at all) . The gun fights, bombing, shooting, everywhere around you makes you feel like a real recruit. 
 I could go into this in depth but I don't have that much time on my hands. Lets leave it at, amazing. 
 
  
  The gameplay is alot more tactical then BF2: MC for the consoles, and thats a good thing becuase 
 I'm not into the arcade gaming that much. The load times are pretty fast (I have 2GB RAM) , But 
 they can get long at times, it really depends on your connection / computer specs.
  
  Get this game if you have the specs for it, I'm not going to lie, it takes alot of power to run 
 it, but don't let that stop you, go for it, its worth the extra money to build your computer up 
 to a beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K__McBain
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 20, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This masterpiece of a game was created for the online gamer who has needs of a game withe the best 
 graphics best sound and quick combat.
  
  BF2 has a unique skill section which tells the infomation about how you play it says exactly how 
 long for how good you are and..... well it tells everything, one of the main things about this 
 game is the ranking and medal system as you play online bf2 awards you a range of medals, badges, 
 ribins and promotions depending on how well you play.
  
  BF2 allows you to jump straight into the action with out having to fiddle around with air trafic 
 control or landing gears, of gear changing in vehicles though in my opinion i would rather it be 
 realistic but this allows every one in the game to have an equal opotunity at getting certain awards 
 without having to be an expert pilot or demolions expert ect
  
  even c how quick iand easy it is to get the hang of check out my stats at www. bf2s. com theb type 
 in my user name mcbain. k. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerohurt
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 20, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  To be short and sweet if you have broadband and you have a pc and you dont own battlefield you 
 are missing out big time!
  
  this game is pure FPS Perfection in a bottle! unbottle it now and take a big swig .. Huge array 
 of different weapons to choose from ,the game has so many levels of play experiance .. lone sniper 
 on a hill top of sky scaper to squad leader flying a chopper into enemy controlled territory if 
 your a virtual jar head like myself you will love this! 
  
  Move it soldier if you cant ill find someone who will!
  
  Heheh .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo9601
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  Great Great game! for all people who do not have an active internet connection don't buy this game... it's 
 only worth playing online! well i bought this game a few months ago and i ddin't regret it! an 
 additional fun factor are the online rankings! what i find great too is that you can use vehicles 
 like  and boats... and you can take up different positions.. if you 
 want to be the pilot.. no prob, the machine gunner or just even a simple passenger will do! for all 
 the hardcore online gamers don't hesitate and buy this great game! also the expansion packs that 
 have been released for bf2 are surely worth buying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meneerjerry
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  This is as i said a great shooter , very cool to play online too. you can pilot tanks , heli's 
 , jeeps and so on. you can change between six different troops : elite , infantry, sniper , anti 
 vehicle , engineer, medic, and something else, i forgot about it . a significant amount of maps 
 but the game bores really fast . its cool to play and stuff but i'd recommend renting it rather 
 then buying it . i know it has got a kinda big score evrywere but is really not that great in my 
 opinion. singleplayer s*cks so don't buy this if you're not planning to play online
  
  hope this helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps2rockerdude
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  I play this game like for 7 hours a day and i dont get board. I love getting in helicopters and 
 dropping people off, flying airplanes and helicopters and going real high and jumping out and doing 
 the parachute thing and then get out my sniper and snipe people! its so funny because most of the 
 time they will be like "What the **** was that! where is he!!!!!" and i will be all laughing at 
 them! Buy This Game It is SO WORTH The $39.99 to $40.00!!!!
  
  PS it is a hassle though to get the patches! and my username is Madriin and if u see a guy named 
 Thegrinch57 then ask him where i am and he will usually know!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cevan04
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 19, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 was released a little over a year ago, has received many patches and has morphed 
 over time into the current state it is in. It wont be like this for long though with the 1.4 patch 
 being Beta tested by the community. So lets move on to the review proper.
  
  The graphics are no Source Engine style as some people have complained about, but they are good. 
 If you have a decent rig then even better as you can whack the settings up to max and bask in the 
 glory of the Battlefield. Even on medium this game looks good, especially in external view of the 
 T-90. 
  
  Sound is very good, weapons sound like they you would want them to. Artillery can send everyone 
 running just by the sound of it, and the beat of chopper blades strikes fear into the hearts of 
 many. One let down is the voices for giving orders etc. becoming monotonous rather quickly.
  
  Gameplay, well this has evolved or some say devolved over time. When once a Blackhawks mini-guns 
 would rip shreds into anything and everything, now they do little more than look nice. Cartillery 
 is the latest element to be introduced whereby the Commander can drop jeeps onto the field of play. 
 Useful for crushing opposing snipers I must say.
  
  The Commander mode has gone relatively untouched; they still give orders to the squad leaders who 
 pass them onto their minions. Non-squaddies are left to roam the Battlefield on their own. Squad 
 hopping as it was affectionately known is no more requiring the squad leader to be more tactical 
 and stay out of danger whenever possible to remain as the mobile spawn point.
  
  Many features have been removed, squad hopping, noob tubing, dolphin diving, C4 throwing, jump 
 and shoot and more than I can be bothered to list. Some lambaste EA and DICE for the changes, I 
 have learned to adapt over time with the patches.
  
  The patches, we have had so many with difficulties with installation and what seems like thousands 
 of other problems.
  
  Despite these negatives and great game lies in the core. I am probably biased a fair bit being 
 in a clan and as such able to get the most out of the game. Team-play and team-work are the key 
 features of this game, and when a squad comes together and works with the commander much fun can 
 be had. VOiP is a great tool allowing squaddies to talk with each other and the squad leader to 
 communicate with the commander. Just get a mic and youre good to go. Sneaking one man into your 
 enemies back base and spawning on him is one of the best feelings I have ever had in online gaming.
 
  
  Of course the ranking system is still present which provides the motivation for some to play, for 
 me it is a handy way of keeping track of my (limited) progress in this game.
  
  You can now find vanilla Battlefield 2 without any booster or expansion packs for a good price 
 nowadays and if you play it as it is meant to be played, with team-work you will love it.
  
  Great game.
  
  Go get it Soldier
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrKittyCat1234
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 17, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  The game Offers alot to play You can pick your country depending on the map also you can pick differnt 
 classes. This is a Sequel To The battlefield 1942's. If you played those and enjoyed it you most 
 certainly enjoy this one. From selecting your class to shooting the other team and dodging bullets 
 if your a fan of First person shooters you will like this one very much. Also it offers vehicles 
 you can use like a tank or heliocopter. Or if you want a new First person shooter this a great 
 game i would recommend this to anyone who loves Computer online gameing or singleplayer campagins.
 
  
  Happy fragging! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepit56
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 17, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  Mix high quality gameplay with modern weapons and lots of explosions and you get the freakin' awesomest 
 game ever! seriously though, BF2 puts the battle in battlefield, because it allows you to try out 
 all different skills, find the one you like, and then hone it until your the best in the game! 
 The new sqaud feature allows everyone to join a squad, even the most retarded. and the weapon unlock 
 feature is a godsend for people with short attention spans. however after playing games like fear, 
 the graphics look pretty grimey and there is no singleplay to speak of. the sound of the game with 
 a headset and sound card is pretty good though. My final statement to go by is that this game offers 
 awesome gameplay with so-so graphics and decent sound. but the gameplay is just so incredibly sweet!!!
 
  
  P. S. the learning curve may seem high but its just because I learned everything about two maps. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 16, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan on Battlefield 1942 & Desert Combat, it wasn't too hard of a move to BF2.
  
  BF2 should be considered online / multiplayer only the game includes a bevy of vehicles, and really 
 does offer a good number of options to enter the battlefield.
  
  The game almost has a experience level where you can unlock awards, ranks, and weapons. These different 
 weapons do not give the user uber capabilites, but do offer a different approach for a certain 
 class, or can help a class hardly used more palitable. 
  
  The game does contain a few notable bugs even after quite a few patchings. A tag bug, The ability 
 to exploit thhe hit boxes by insti- proning, and the ability to exploit the terrain, and fall into 
 thing such as buildings giving the person inside a building the ability to shoot out and eliminate 
 ones enemy, but no one can shoot the exploiter. 
  
  Thankfully, EA Games does crack down on fellows who break the rules, (it takes awhile usually) , 
 but an exploiter will recieve an account wipe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trav_have
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  In this game, Battlefield 2, it is a wonderful online experience. Now this review may be a bit 
 cheesy at times but thats how I do my reviews. Battlefield 2 has tons of guns and a lot more than 
 1942. Great open levels also help your experience on this game. There are many different vehicles 
 you can choose from. You can even have a squad in this that you help eachother out with. Aside 
 from Battlefield 1942, when you die in this one, you can yell out for a medic so you may be revived 
 before you re-spawn. You can have 64 characters in one map in Battlefield 2! As you progress through 
 each map, your KO's and falls add to your percentage towards your next level in rank. Battlefield 
 2 has an option to use artillery when you want, which is when you shoot missles into the air onto 
 the opponents base. If you buy this game, "Good job soldier". I am definately looking forward to 
 Battlefield 2142. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 16, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  This is the best game in the Battlefield Series because of the new game system, excelent multiplayer, 
 new armies, maps , weaopns and more! Also the sounds and graphics are GREAT! Singleplayer AI isn't 
 the best but it can provide some pratice for multiplayer matches. Also you need to have a very 
 good Internet connection and a good graphics card (which I don't have) in order to play the game 
 at the best settings. I have to set my graphics settings to "medium" and sound settings to "high". 
 Also some annoying errors like going to a black screen and crashing just when you enter a server 
 can happen. Also it takes a few minutes for the game to load. Also it can sometimes take awhile 
 to earn the amount of points required to get promoted. I say: "Buy this game NOW!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fxdm
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 15, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  This franchise started with Battlefield 1942, and later expanded into expansion packs and whole 
 other games. This game has brought the original Battlefield gameplay to the modern era, along with 
 some various tweaks to the gameplay and weapons. This game has a lot of different vehicles and 
 weapons to pick from, and even more to unlock in the online multiplayer mode. This game's multiplayer 
 has tons of strategy when you play in the ranked servers. However, in the unranked servers many 
 people just run around with no objective at all, trying to kill the entire other army. You can 
 get lots of hours off of this game, and I would suggest it to anyone who likes FPS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archebius
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 15, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  This is my first review, so i decided to do it on the game i enjoyed most. here goes....
  
  1) Gore level: Very Low. Some dust appears to come off of them when you shoot them, and if it was 
 colored red it could be construed as blood, but not bad. No pieces falling off of bodies
  
  2) Violence: Its a first person shooter. theres nothing BUT violence, unless you wanna be a medic 
 or mehcanic the whole time.
  
  3) Gameplay: Very good. I was very impressed with the simple controls that don't take long to learn 
 but forever to master. The addition of commander is really nice, and adds a 4th dimension to the 
 game. Meanwhile, every kit is necessary, and there is usually a fairly equal number of players 
 on each one. what you are normally is determined by your playstyle, not by which one is the best. 
 You can also become fairly adapt at all and become a jack-of-all trades, and its do anything, go 
 anywhere approach to the battle is really nice. Something here for Lone wolfers, Teammates and 
 other not mentioned
  
  4) Graphics: Amazing. Simply amazing. From the effect of a flash bang (not available without Special 
 Forces exp.) to the blurring and ringing that follows a near miss of a tank shell, to the rounds 
 of ammo dropping to the ground, to the tracer bullets wizzing past you, to the dirt that flys up 
 when a bullet misses, to the medical packs that bounce on the back of a running medic, the graphics 
 are all detailed, and very, very nice. nothing looks unnatural in this game.
  
  5) Sound: Also very impressive. this is one game you definately want to play with the volume up, 
 as all the important battlefield info is spoken. When you hear the whistle of an arty, or the crack 
 of a sniper rifle, or the sound of a tank, you actually FEEL scared. the sound makes you immersed. 
 It is very well done, well synced with the motions, and fairly detailed. The only thing i dont 
 like is the rendition of the the battlefield theme music, which is not nearly as good as it was 
 in bf1942
  
  6) Value: Definately worth the money. the chance to fight against all types of players from all 
 over the world, and the ability to form stratagies on the fly, and the thrill of your first kill.... these 
 are all things that this game enables. I do not regret ONE CENT of the money i spent on this.
 
  
  7) Tilt: I've gone through three acclaimed MMO's during this time, and got bored of them all. I 
 keep coming back to bf2. 'nough said 
::::::

::::::
UserName: original_oni
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is the single greatest experience that someone will go trhough on a pc or maybe its 
 just me i have all battlefields currently and ive considered them the greatest thing to hit pc 
 and with battlefield 2 it proves my point im so happy happy that i got it and i think whoever has 
 a gd pc an noo battlefield 2 needs to get one like as soon as possible i just cant stress it enough 
 just get it it owns everything in the shops many will disagree but calm down only my opinion.. 
 and with battlefield 2 in mind i personally can not wait for battlefield 2142 with its titan mode 
 and stuff looks awesome ill be looking forward to that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kebn
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 14, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  This game is great fun while it lasts, (you will get bored eventually due to the lack of free new 
 maps) Its almost dangerously addictive, with a headset you become totally oblivious to your surroundings 
 for hours on end, communicating with squad members and seizing objectives before the artillery 
 strikes. Please make sure your pc is compatible with this game, it requires fairly decent machine 
 to run properly (1 gb of ram is essential even though the game only requires 512mb) if youre not 
 sure you have the specs you can download the demo (dont judge the game on the demo though)
  
  GRAPHICS/SOUND - if you have a headset, the sound is incredible, all the little details can 
 be heard over the constant rattle of distant gunfire. The graphics are great too, but i dont care 
 about graphics at all.
  
  GAMEPLAY - The single player sucks, so dont waste your time buying this game if its only for the 
 single player, unlike the console versions of this game THERE IS NO CAMPAIGN, many people have 
 made that mistake.
  the multi player is what this game is all about, but again there is only so many times you can 
 play the same maps over and over again without if getting really tedious and boring. How long you 
 will get out of this game seriously depends on the person, the game is easy to get a hold of and 
 you can get good fairly quickley, your first game however can be a rather daunting experience.
 
  
  PROS - Vast maps, great squad based action, totally engrossing, cool weapons and vehicles, teams 
 are fairly well balanced. Its just really good fun. Ranking system gives an incentive to keep playing, 
 cool unlockable weapons.
  
  CONS - The game has several annoying bugs that should have been sorted out long before the game 
 was released (hopefully the new patch will fix that, although i wouldnt bet on it, previous patches 
 did more harm than good) Idiots on your team can ruin the fun, squads rarely stick together, there 
 is an arguable unbalance issue with the aircraft in the game, in the sense that they are too strong, 
 but i think the problem is that the anti aircraft weapons are too weak. Long loading times. Serious 
 system hog. NO NEW FREE STUFF!!!!!!! (maps etc)
  
  when it comes to the faults in the game, although they are plentiful, theyre all pretty minor and 
 the games strong points truely outweigh its faults, 
  i strongly recommend buying this game if your pc can handle it, if it cant BF1942 is also excellent.
 
  
  Be sure to check out any reviews that absolutely annihilate this game, to get more views on its 
 faults and to make sure it is worth your money.
  
  also BF2142 is getting released soon, so it might be worth your while waiting for its release 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 24, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Battlefield is the higly anticipated sequel to battlefield 1942 and vietnam.
  The game is set in the modern world, with all the weapons and vehicles from this age.
  It features 
 three factions and a lot of maps to play.
  
  Gameplay:
  Battlefield 2 is all about gameplay, it features these large maps, with tons of vehicles.
  +Three 
 factions are slightly different
  +Nice maps, good design
  +Mulitplayer is allright, but has it downs due to lags
  +Singleplayer is solid, but it doesnt 
 support more the 16 players
  +When you do have a good computer, the graphics improve the fun
  -AI isnt that intelligent
 
  -Graphics mess up gameplay due to the massive system requirements
  
  Graphics:
  +Looks great
  +Higly detailed
  -Graphics give more lag, when you dont have a high end computer
 
  -Requires one hell of a computer, even on lower settings
  
  Sounds:
  +Gun sounds and background sounds are really nice
  +Features good music
  
  Value:
  +Good 
 mod community, which makes a game last longer
  +Overall good maps to play with
  +Singleplayer and multiplayer are both solid
  -AI ingame sucks
  -Lags and high end graphics 
 reduce the gameplay
  
  Tilt:
  +Overall good presentation
  +Easy learning
  
  If you liked BF 1942 or Vietnam, you got to try this one, but beware if you dont have a high end 
 computer, which you probaly dont have.
  Cya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supernast
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 13, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the funnest games I've ever played, I liked it so much I joined a clan (The 
 Indelible) . First off is the gameplay. It may take a while before you get in the top 15 but after 
 a few hours you will be well on your way. Action packed, vehicle packed, upgrade packed, booster 
 packed, any war fantasies come to life in this game. Tons of great servers to play on and haven't 
 seen a hacker yet. Play the game on 64 man servers with intense squad action or just go alone in 
 the deep world of a lone wolf. Most vehicles have been dumbed down with patches so no vehicle really 
 outweighs everything in power. Gun are accurate and you can sprint, jump, prone, crouch, drive, 
 sail, man, and pilot in BF2.
  
  Downfalls...
  Lag can be bad
  Bad server list interface
  can't be played on high on all computers
  only one mode of play
 
  teamkilling for planes and helicopters can get annoying
  takes a long time to get all of the unlocks
  no one ever talks in squad chat
  as of now noobs 
 are now playing with experienced players that know the maps and know how to pwn.
  limited maps
  some maps are better than others
  there are still some glitches that annoy you 
 if you don't know how to deal with them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StephenHu
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Err hum... THIS GAME IS OFF DA HOOK!!!!!
  
  
  
  There... I can now tell you why, the sound is awesome, the vehicles are  
 and there is so much to do!!!
  the levels are humongous and the atsomosphere is just plain AWESOME
  to top all that, you get 
 a FULL leaderboard filled with every single kill you made, your accuracy and everything in between, every 
 weapon is real and not unrealistic, i love the recoil and how guns arnt too accurate, best of all!, IT 
 is NOT a run and gun
  
  
  
  
  BUY THIS GAME NOW!!!!! YOU WILL NOT REGRET IT!!!!!!!!
  if i put more exclamtion marks will it 
 make you buy it?? if it does here: IT  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warthog259
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 13, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  this game is like yo behind you then BAM u see the place you hit the person. Maybe alot of pathces 
 but the patch just added more features but this game is really adciting but if u want this go buy 
 it but u might need two if you want to play with your friend. Many people cooperate in this game 
 this is the best 1st person shooter in 2005 time { meaning the date inside the game} . If you want 
 a good game with alot of servers this game is 1st you have any other system get modern combat bf 
 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jehuty_86
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is no doubt one of the best online multiplayer FPS's to hit the pc to date. Though 
 i prefer 2142, this is where it all started.
  
  -Unlockables for each team as you go up the ranks.
  -Attack choppers, fighter jets and tanks.
 
  -Explosions via AA missiles, satchel charges etc.
  -Ragdoll technology that gives it a bit of humour!
  -Stats and Ranking system for online play, 
 one of the best i've seen in an online ranking game.
  -Chose your soldier type. Assault, spec ops, medic, engineer etc.
  -Be a commander and order 
 artillery strikes, vehicle drops, and give orders to your men.
  
  I can't think of a more strategic Multiplayer FPS than BF2, which is what makes this stand out 
 so much compared to the general gun ho way of things with the majority of FPS's.
  
  The detail was awesome for its time, a bit dated now though but you can't fault the game play and 
 the sounds are a gift to the ears. Even if you get cained loads, you still want to go back and 
 play more, its highly addictive, just like 2142.
  
  Play it now, enjoy the thrills of everything it offers, and then some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartass21
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 12, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is an amazing 1st person shooter .When I got the game it didnt work because I had 
 only 64 video ram .I bought a geforce A6600 Td and it worked perfectly . I really like that you 
 can get in vehicles ,my favorite is the plane .I also liked that you can put cannons to fire in 
 a location you want .
  The graphics are amazing ,on my Pc the resolution is set on 800 x 600 (not because the video ram 
 ,but because of the memory ram) and it looks really great. 
  The sounds are great too , you can hear bullets going past you .I love the games soundtracks .
 
  The terrain and vehicles controls are simple , but the helicopter ,airplane and command controls 
 are too complicated .
  This game is really amazing so I recommend it . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saleskawa13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 12, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  If you love FPS' and are looking for a new one to play, this is your game. Battlefield 2 is my 
 all time favorite FPS, ranking right up there with Halo. The game features an online ranking system, 
 free online play, awards that are recieved by doing certain tasks and can be displayed to other 
 players and a rag to riches gameplay (for lack of another way to say this) starting you out as 
 a private and having you work your way through the ranks. Weapons are unlocked as you move up in 
 the ranks. Strategy is required into this game, and if you are the type of person who rushes into 
 a building or area guns blazing, you will not do to great in this game. You have to plan your moves 
 carefully. Also the game features a battlefront 2 type of gameplay, alowing you to choice a class 
 or "kit" (examples include Special Forces, Sniper, Medic ect.) that have a certain strength, weakness, 
 and purpose (special forces- all around good soldier, sniper- good longrange weapons, slow, not 
 good for close range, medic- heal teammates, not so great for longrange) That being said, the long 
 loading times for a server are annoying, and the community is not always supportive but thats normal 
 with online games of any type. Bottom line- if you love FPS' and have the 50 dollars, go for it. 
 One of the greatest games for any PC gamer even if your time is limited. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arsenalfc7230
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 has been one of the most popular First Person Shooters on the market since it 
 was released three years ago. The solid graphics and wide open game play field of that title ensured 
 that it was regularly in the mix with Counter-Strike and Unreal Tournament on lists of most played 
 online titles. Combining the vehicular combat of Tribes and the team play of Halo, wrapped up inside 
 a WWII packaging that had yet to lose its luster, Digital Illusions scored a sales coup. Their 
 latest title, Battlefield 2, takes place in the near future. Instead of a historical setting, modern 
 weaponry and level design is the order of the day. Helicopters, Jet Fighters, and side arms familiar 
 to anyone who has watched CNN make the battlefield an exciting place to be. CNN coverage, in fact, 
 was likely an inspiration for the developers during the game's creation. The game pits American 
 forces against vaguely terrorist middle-eastern stereotypes, in a topical tie-in to today's headlines. 
 
  So how do you improve on an already great title? The sequel to Battlefield 1942 and Battlefield 
 Vietnam stays very close to the source material. So close, in fact, that it's hard to point to 
 any fundamental change in the game play mechanics. The changes, instead, are quality of life improvements. 
 The game's engine allows for lag less infantry combat and accurate vehicular strikes. A fantastic 
 audio environment places you directly in the action, raising the heart rate as bullets whiz by 
 your head. Graphical improvements allow for a beautiful setting to slay your enemies, and tight 
 level design makes for surprisingly tense house-to-house fighting. Stripping away options in favor 
 of enjoyment, BF2 only ships with the Conquest game type, which pits armies of varying size against 
 each other in a bid to control a set of nodes scattered across a map. Though there aren't that 
 many maps each of them scales from 16 to 64 players. This allows for each map to evoke a different 
 feel, from squad on squad to army vs. army, depending on the battle's size. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sloppyj100
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 11, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  I was very excited when this game came out because it looked like it was going to be one of the 
 best must haves of summer 2005, but i was quickly disappointed when I began to play it for the 
 first time. I quickly noticed that there was practically no single player campaign avaliable, and 
 if there was it was practically a "player vs bots" type deal. But as i jumped into multiplayer 
 i was quickly drawn in by all the different weapon styles you could choose from including medic 
 kits and anti-tank. I was amazed by the amount of hard work the creators must have put into the 
 different maps, and I automatically loved the different types of vehicles that were at your arsenal. 
 But there was only one problem, I quickly realized that even though the vehicles such as the plane 
 and the helicopter were "there", didnt necessarily mean that you got the chance to actually use 
 them due to the immense amount of people who also wanted to hop in, I found that as a result, if 
 you did enter a plane or helicopter, you would soon be team-killed just so that another person 
 could take the plane or helicopter instead of you, which really ruined that gameplay experience 
 for me. Another extremely annoying thing that I experienced while playing the game was that I was 
 constently blown up by a arsenal strike or somehting of that nature which just caused you to wait 
 until you respawn again and etc. I do realize that a lot of these complaints couldnt really be 
 handeled by the team who created the game, I just think that if they came this far with the game, 
 they may as well finish where they started. Therefore, even though this game has been a blast at 
 some times, the main real big flaws that you encounter in a large portion of the game really hold 
 the game back from being amazing, therefore I thinkg this game deserves an 8.6 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NAPALMSHARK
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 10, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a very highly addictive game that I can see myself playing for a long time to 
 come. The feeling of jumping into this war zone is unreal with fantastic realism and accuracy. 
 Though I have not fought In a real war I'm sure this would not be far off. This game shows that 
 battles are won through intense communication and team work and only won rarely by nut case Rambo's. 
 One of the best multi player games of the year without a doubt and for todays gaming standards 
 this one's a definite goer. If your into your war, you'll love Battlefield 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamingod2272
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  This game is the most perfect war game I have ever played with great multiplayer and incredible 
 visuals this game has definately got the workings of a perfect game. The ability to be a commander 
 or join a squad is awesome with in game talking and usually good team work. This game is the most 
 perfect war game I have ever played with great multiplayer and incredible visuals this game has 
 definately got the workings of a perfect game. The ability to be a commander or join a squad is 
 awesome with in game talking and usually good team work. The game has some very hgih system requirements 
 though and the game is very laggy on many servers, but if you find a good server this game is extremely 
 enjoyable for anyone from avid gamers to the most casual. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skippysqueez123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  This a great game. When i first got this game i didnt know what to expect, but i saw some of the 
 trailers and thought it might be fun. I started to play it and it got very addicting.
  There are so many vehicles you can get in. My personal favorite is the helicopter.
  The graphics 
 are just amazing if you have an up to date video card. but if you don't you can just set some settings 
 to low.
  The sound is just as amazing ,its fun when your running away and you hear bullets going bye and 
 a tank exploding right in front of you.
  the gameplay is very solid. there are alot of things you can do in the game, like c4 or airplanes 
 and tanks. If you can find a good server that uses there mic. it is very fun to play as a team.
 
  Getting used to the controls might take some getting used to but they have a voice that guides 
 you through everything if it is your first time to play.
  The bots are pretty good if its your first time playing but once you get better there not that 
 smart at all.
  One neat thing is that they have ranks and unlocks. you can get a higher rank by getting more points. 
 As you progress through the ranks you get unlocks, which is pretty neat because once you have mastered 
 the guns and you get more and more points you can get an unlock gun to master.
  
  Something that bothered me was that the loading time to get in a server takes sooo long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnthonyLuu
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 8, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  where do i even begin with this work of crap? this game shouldn't even be relased its completley 
 litered with bugs. its a complete hassle finding servers to play on, it takes like 15 minutes to 
 get through all the crash to desktop glitches just to join a server which ends up saying "There 
 is a problem with your internet connection". when you get through all that and start to play the 
 game you will soon find out that this game is filled with idiots who tk just for the fun of it 
 or to take vehicles that you waited for. they released a so called "beta patch" so players can 
 help find bugs and glitches and fix it to make a better patch. this game itself is a beta in the 
 first place. if your thinking about getting this game i strongly beg you with a cherry on top NOT 
 TO BUY IT!!! thank you ea and dice for killing such a fun game with your bullcrap glitches o btw, 
 STOP MAKING BOOSTER PACKS AND FIX UR GOD DAMN BUGS FOR BF2 FIRST!!! i want my refund 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2243bearwallow
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 7, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Your in the jungle, bravo squad move first, followed by delta, then swampfox, your commander sends 
 out a UAV or unmanned aireal vehicle, an allied sniper takes out an enemy troop at the front gate 
 of an outpost, this is just many of the realistic situations you will find in battlefield 2.
  
  The beggining, At first i began to hate bf2, but realized that i really need to update. Though 
 the back of the box said that the Geforce FX 5200gt was not compatible, it bought it and was able 
 to play. Though not satisfied with the graphix on my cheap card, after buying another stick of 
 ram, i was able to overclock, then the game could take med. settings like nothing.
  
  Now on to the Gameplay, as of the newest patch, some new stuff was added, including vehicle drop, 
 and a new multiplayer mode, Co-op. While the Co-op was not the best, the vehicle drop was sweet! 
 I would turn into a "No0b sikle" i would become commander, and then drop a vehicle on to a helicopter. 
 it would sit on top of the blades, that is till someone got in, it would stay on for about a minute 
 after take off, and then the helicopter would blow up, pilot and all! It was also fun to drop the 
 vehicles on enemy snipers! The commanders console was very easy to use, and locating enemy and 
 directing team squads to objectives left me in the seat for alot longer. And as soon as i would 
 say "i think im done for the Eve" something completely stupid and random would happen, thus pulling 
 me back.
  
  Over all, besides the tech difficultys, id say that its a pretty great game. And will over-do the 
 console version by a crap load.
  
  *Perfect Score* well almost (; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Well i didnt exept dat this game will be so great...
  First i like it , because it has single player almost like in counter strike only better ...
 
  Sound:
  Its good , when you say i command teammates respond ... i like dat , vashiles explode wit such 
 dainamic sound...
  gameplay:
  its perfect, first when i installed this game i didnt know what to do, because i didnt understand 
 anything ...
  Well , i its allso a good multiplayer , i like playing it wit my friends...
  well i dont like one thing that when i want to play wot my player it doesnt connect to a server 
 : (
  
  Well i can say one thing its a great game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  I played the demo for couple of weeks and then bought Battlefield 2 full version. Its awesome - 
 many kits, lot of maps (haven't played a few of them (yes, I have played bf2 total of 40 hours) , 
 ranks, stats, medals, ribbons, weapons etc. 
  
  In battlefield 2, there is many things to do. For example at the moment, i mostly play as a medic. 
 But when i get bored, i think i pick the anti-tank or support. After that i want to start flying 
 (with helis and aviators) .
  
  Things what are annoing me are the bugs. There's a quite a lot of them even when you have the patch 
 installed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia_Necross
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is unbelieveable! I was trying to think something it was a 9 on and I couldnt. This game 
 is perfect. 10 for gameplay because of the squad system and etc. 10 for graphics but you need a 
 good graphics to play this game. 10 for sound because the sound was amazing in this game. It sounded 
 so real to an m4 and a m16. And 10 for value because YOU NEVER GET BORED of this game! This game 
 is perfect! and if you really dont like games get it any way it will be the more thrills you have 
 ever expericed believe  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboyvinnie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  Story-The US, China and a fictional colony called the M. E. C fight for control over certain areas 
 of land
  
  Graphics: Pros-Models look fantastic, maps look great with plenty to look at and tons to explore
 
  Cons-Grass and water can usually look a bit bad
  
  Sound: Pros-Gunfire sounds superb, commands and vehicle sounds also sound well done
  Cons-Music 
 can grate on the nerves at times (luckily you can turn it off)
  
  Game play: Pros-Lot's of exciting tense battles, a huge assortment of vehicles to drive all with 
 different characteristics, the more you play the more weapons you can unlock, good bot AI for SP, solid 
 squad mechanics meaning that you are never too far away from your friends
  Cons-Cheaters can be a pain, crashes can happen frequently, load times are a chore, patch process 
 can be serious trouble for some people (meaning patch constantly appears to be corrupt) , hit detection 
 can really be a bit unrealistic (like 3 head shots and target still isn't dead for example)
  
  Replay Value-It all depends if you play on your own (5+ hrs a week) or with a bunch of friends 
 (14+ hrs a week)
  
  Overall-It's a very solid MP shooter and a solid SP shooter as well thanks to the well done bot 
 AI and apart from a few bugs and problems it should definitely be in your game collection regardless 
 of what type of game you prefer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Codename33
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 5, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  Well, you basically all know the concept of battlefield games, right? You pick a class, get in 
 the battle, and try to control all points of the map. Battlefield 1942 was a great game, while 
 BF Vietnam wasn't so great. Now we have Battlefield 2, which is arguably the best game in the series. 
 It brings in many new and great concepts, like the ranking system, commanders, squads, and medals. 
 The ranking system can make this game very addicting, wanting to always get to the next rank. Medals 
 can also be extremely hard to get, and range from getting 10 kills in a round to having logged 
 over 10,000 hours on BF2. The classes are also very well balanced, although people that are good 
 at flying planes/helicopters still dominate the field and make it frustrating for other players 
 to play. That's why I give gameplay a 9.
  
  Graphics in BF2 are amazing, but require a very beefy computer to achieve. I have a 7800 card, 
 a gig of ram, and a 3.4 ghz cpu, but can't even play this on medium with more than 25-30 fps. Unfortunately, 
 on lower settings, this game looks terrible at best. Judging by the top graphics I've seen, I'm 
 giving it a 9.
  
  The sound is very solid in BF2. The guns actually sound like their real life counterparts, and 
 being in the middle of an artillery strike can be quite fun and chaotic. The sounds are just great 
 to hear. 8.
  
  Overall. BF2 is probably worth getting for people with good computers. One thing I forgot to say 
 is that the loading times are absolutely terrible. Sometimes it can take upwards of 3 minutes for 
 me to load a single map. This is just really annoying, having to wait and listen to the same song 
 over and over. Also, BF2 can be quite buggy and might freeze or crash on you. If you don't mind 
 the glitches and have a good pc, BF2 is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steven141
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 4, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  This game is a tremendous FPS (First Person Shooter) game and in my opinion one of the best to 
 have been released so far.
  
  There is the wide range of weapons included in this game to kill your enemy with and also there 
 is a wide range of vehicles such as the humvee or how about a jet or helicopter? All great fun 
 (especially for driving into people with) . Also you can bail out of a flying vehicle if needed 
 and open your parachute in an emergency or if you want to make a surprise attack.
  
  The best thing about this game in my opinion is the multiplayer aspect of it. When registered you 
 can play in huge maps that can hold up to 64 players which makes 32 players on each team. You can 
 player as the special forces, medic, assault, support or and engineer and all are vital to a winning 
 team. 
  
  The goal of the game is to capture the enemies flags by just standing near one when no enemy is 
 about and then the enemy cannot spawn there anymore, however you cannot capture fixed bases which 
 are permenant bases to that team. Also theres the killing of course which is a lot of fun which 
 earns points. When you have enough you wll get promoted and will earn a new weapon which you can 
 use to kill people.
  
  There is also the rank system on each team so if you apply to be commander but someone else has 
 the person with the highest rank will be given the commander position and so they can place artilery 
 strikes or a uav and can place a supply drop, also they can scan theiir map to see where all the 
 enemies are. There are also squads which can have up to 6 members, the squad leader can order the 
 members of the squad to attack or defend a position and some other things.
  
  I advise getting this game if you love FPS style games because this game is so much fun and also 
 the graphics are superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pvt_KIDO
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is the second best Battlefield game to be released. (Third once Bad Company comes 
 out.)
  
  Graphics: Graphics are nothing special but they do look good. Textures especially, lighting effects 
 are ok but character models and explosions really do look nice. 9/10
  
  Sound: Impressive sound from rockets flying to bullets buzzing in the background everything sounds 
 like it should, weapons sound especially nice and have very distinctive sounds. 9/10
  
  Gameplay: Same'old sandbox Battlefield gameplay we have come to love with some new additions. For 
 starters people can now create squads with a designated squad leader who can call for artillery 
 strikes on any location on the map, and have supplies air dropped to his troops via a special in-game 
 screen with a map of the level displayed. Otherwise, nothing has really changed, which quite frankly 
 is a good thing. 9/10
  
  Single-Player: I must say I am surprised by the A. I. this time around. Not only do they actually 
 function properly in a game, but they are actually helpful. In Single-Player bot matches you will 
 notice that A. I. s are just target practice, they are actually pretty smart, however like the people 
 online they will sometimes run you over in a Humvee. Nothing sucks more than getting team killed 
 by an A. I. Granted the majority of players will stick to multiplayer but if your connection is 
 bad, you can still have a good time with the single player. 8/10
  
  Controls: Great controls, you can really customize them to be set up anyway you want so it really 
 doesn't matter but for the most part they are the same you used in Battlefield Vietnam but tweaked. 
 For example press (I forgot what button it was actually X_X) but a little circle with different 
 commands will come up and you slide your course to the right one and click it to you "MEDIC" or 
 "ENEMY SPOTTED" 10/10
  
  All in all Battlefield 2 is a very enjoyable that should keep you playing until the next Battlefield 
 comes out, or even longer. This game is second (soon to be third) only to Battlefield 1942.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanis_gr
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I cannot understand the madness around this game. Perhaps, because I do not play games online. 
 Four times I installed Battlefield 2 in order to find this excellency but unfortunately I found 
 nothing. There are 8-10 maps (small locations) and the only thing you make is to make circles, 
 shooting the enemy soldiers or vehicles again and again. Ok, you can drive vehicles of all types, 
 boats, planes even helicopters, you can use some special weapons, but in general lines it is just 
 a simple first person shooter without something in particular. Moreover I think that BF2 is difficult 
 in handling. The sound is good, graphics excellent, but gameplay are not something so amazing. 
 If you want to drive vehicles or planes try a specific simulator. If you want first person shoot 
 em up, set up Half Life or Far Cry and play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amlabella
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 30, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 for the PC was one of the biggest games of 2002. It featured some of the best 
 online play of any game up to that time. So how exactly does EA and Digital Illusions top that? 
 Well, how about taking that formula for success from 1942 and adding it into Battlefield 2, with 
 some new features and kits to play around with. Thats exactly what they did for Battlefield 2, 
 and it makes the game one the most fun and enjoyable games on the PC to date.
  
  Battlefield 2 has three factions to pick from, including the United States, China, and a fictional 
 Middle Eastern Coalition. The game has only one gameplay mode, but its the one that was biggest 
 in the previous Battlefield games. Conquest Mode has two teams of up to 32 players each facing 
 off against each other to get the most control points. Each team has a number of spawns, called 
 tickets, which are vital. A team wins by getting all the control points, or by chipping away at 
 the opponents tickets until they reach zero. Its a simple concept, which makes it easy to just 
 get into the game with some people without having to learn a bunch of things.
  
  There is a single player mode in the game. Itll have you and some teammates up against another 
 AI controlled team. One big improvement in Battlefield 2 is that the AI of these opponents (also 
 known as bots) is much improved. The bots do make some mistakes still, but certainly not as many 
 as in Battlefield 1942 or Vietnam. Theyll hide behind cover waiting for a medic when injured, 
 or for backup when theyre in a tight position. This is all great, but you didnt buy the game 
 just for single-player, did you? Lets get to the online play. 
  
  Youll be able to play in teams of up to 32, but you could get into smaller numbers depending on 
 the maps. A nice variety of places are included, like hotels, villages, and oil refineries. There 
 are 16, 32, and 64 player maps. They dont differ environment-wise, but depending on what you pick 
 they do expand. The 64 player maps can be huge, which makes those vehicles come in handy.
  
  Speaking of vehicles, Battlefield 2 boasts an impressive assortment of them in the game. Best 
 of all is that you can travel in the air, on ground, or on water. Many will enjoy how many different 
 options there are. Heres just a taste of what the game has to offer: jets, helicopters, jeeps, 
 tanks, speed boats, and thats just the tip of the iceberg. Also, these arent just for transportation. 
 Jets and tanks can fire missiles, and some vehicles have turrets. Controls feel realistic, but 
 they can take a bit of getting used to. But once you do catch on, youll find yourself using them 
 a lot. 
  
  One huge factor of the game is what kit you pick. Kits are designed for specific ways of playing 
 the game. For example, theres the medics, who are responsible for keeping their teammates from 
 dying. Therefore they are equipped with med-pacs and shockers. But every kit comes equipped for 
 battle, whether it be with heavy firearms or just light guns that do the job. Some people may want 
 to just stick with one kit, and others may want to try them all. Thats the beauty in variety, 
 you can go whichever way you want. And all of the kits are satisfying in their own way.
  
  As you play online, the game keeps track of your stats. Its amazing how many different stats the 
 Battlefield 2 pays attention to, such as what kit you play the most, your favorite weapon and vehicle, 
 as well as the basic stuff, like kills. One of the best and unique aspects of the game is you can 
 earn medals, badges, ribbons, and ranks. Say youve healed enough people as a medic, then you earn 
 the basic medic badge. This will definitely keep people playing more and more to earn these rewards, 
 as it really makes you feel like youve achieved something.
  
  One important thing to note about Battlefield 2 is that theres a commander position. The commander 
 gets an overhead view of the entire battlefield. They also have special commands that allow them 
 to give orders to squad leaders, call in artillery, drop down supplies to certain squads, and a 
 few other things. Commander are basically the leaders of everyone else, so itll take a while to 
 be able to manage that position. You cant just jump in the game and assume the role of commander, 
 because your teammates might get mad at you if you dont know what your doing. 
  
  One really great feature for those that have headsets is that they can chat with their team online. 
 When some people create a server, they enable voice-chat, allowing anyone with a headset to use 
 it. This really helps, since the best way to victory in Battlefield 2 is to team up and work together 
 with your teammates. Forming squads and working together strategically makes the game much more 
 enjoyable.
  
  My mouth dropped in awe when I first caught the visuals of this game. Its just about as close 
 to perfect in the graphical department as it could have gotten. When playing online, the most important 
 thing is that the game runs smoothly. Luckily, Battlefield 2 does this, mostly free of lag. The 
 environments are all very detailed, plastered with all sorts of landscapes, such as deserts, mountains, 
 cities and so on. The game is filled with many crazy moments, like helicopters exploding and then 
 crashing down near your team. Its times like these when the only word I can use to describe that 
 is... awesome. Effects like dirt kicking up in the air are only little touches, but they make it 
 that much better. The rendering of the vehicles seems so realistic, which is always good. The only 
 complaint is that the environments arent destructible, which would have been perfect in this game. 
 Other than that, everything is visually aesthetic. 
  
  A war is the sight of all kinds of loud sounds, and Battlefield 2 definitely captures that. Hearing 
 explosions, blasting rifles, and roaring engines is like music to my ears. The only time music 
 comes into play is during the tedious load times, which is Middle Eastern. Its respectable, but 
 doesnt stand out by any means. This is unfortunate seeing how the previous two Battlefield games 
 has excellent soundtracks. Nevertheless, because there is little music, this really isnt a problem. 
 
  
  Most who purchase this game will not be playing its single player much. Battlefield 2 is all about 
 the online play, and this helps provides all kinds of replay value. Youll find yourself hours 
 on end blasting down helicopters or sniping your enemy from a safe distance. Rewards make victories 
 and accomplishments that much more satisfying, which adds a great redeeming quality to the game. 
 Your friends are going to be wondering if you went off to vacation in another country, because 
 you wont find much time for social interaction.
  
  If youre looking for a fun online experience, whether it be a first-person shooter or not, then 
 Battlefield 2 is the game for you. It takes everything that made Battlefield 1942 and Vietnam great, 
 and put them into this game with better visuals. But not without adding some new things for players 
 coming off of the previous two games. Newcomers to the series will be hooked easily, as should 
 everyone who plays the game. Make sure you have your eyes checked periodically, because they wont 
 be leaving that computer screen for a long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexlexia2000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 30, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  i had only just been introduced to this game about mid june 2006, but i must say it is one of the 
 best games ive ever played online. i enjoy this so much more than the other online games ive tried 
 eg,. bfme2. the graphics are excellent but you must make sure your pc can support the game so check 
 the official stats. this game is alot more fun in multiplayer which is probably why ea made multiplayer 
 maps bigger and u have weapons rewards and rank ups etc. although this does make it slightly unfair 
 when u are a noob with a lame ass rifle and u fight a sergeant major with a kik ass one shot wonder 
 gun, but hey its fun all the same. the expansion pack is ok but i tend to play this much more due 
 to the shear volume of ppl online with the original, plus i enjoy the original maps more as they 
 just seem brighter than the special forces maps. just a few downers with this game, its is almost 
 impossible to host your own online game as the games are hosted by sponsered servers, there are 
 an unbelievable amount of disadvantages to new players eg, weapon rewards to better players and 
 also those in helicopters and aircraft can kill u with one shot which is bullcrapo when they hang 
 around your spawnpoint. anyway overall a great game but the expansions do seem a little pointless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olgert56
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  When i first played Battlefield 2 i didn't like that much. But after spending hours and hours playing 
 I really liked it. The game is excellent.
  
  Let's start by the sound of this game. There's not much to say except that is wonderful. You can 
 hear your buddies talking and the bullets flying around you. The music is not much of a deal because 
 when you're in the game you'll forget that there is music at all. 
  
  And now the graphics. As usual the developers try to make the best out of the graphics. Well the 
 graphics are really good. If you have a nice video card that can run it on "High" then you will 
 get the most out of it. You can be able to really enjoy this game if you have G-force 6800 or higher.
 
  
  The gameplay is good . The campaign is long and interesting in a way. But what i really like is 
 the multiplayer. You can support 64 people at one time. I've spent hours and hours of playing and 
 i still am. The campaign is at most 7 hours of play (It doesn't get boring) .
  
  The bad stuff of Battlefield 2 is that you will see the frame rate go down and you might get some 
 technical difficulties. Some gameplay issues and the multiplayer might not connect.
  
  Overall this game deserves a 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogersband
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 27, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  One of my favorite games that i love to play. Multiplayer is better than any other i know. I dont 
 know what to say, it has a great, addictive gameplay. I have spent over a 100 hours on this game 
 and i still love it. My favorite aspect of it is the rank system allowing you to go up in rank 
 and be technically better than other players. I like the command aspect too, it is very fun and 
 a win for your team really depends on a good and experienced commander. BF2 is a great, realistic, 
 and wonderful game that i recommend highly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krodmilk
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  OK, where to begin... This game is has got to be one of the greatest hits to online multiplayer, 
 modern warfare tactics. The weapons are accurately generated to the exact weapons in the real world, 
 down to the sound they make when fired. Especially the L96A1 sniper rifle. If you have the game 
 and have unlocked the weapon, you'll know what I mean when I say it "echoes"!! The different class 
 of weapons give you a good feel as to which army you like to play best. For example, the US army 
 has the best Spec-Ops weapon, the M4, where as the Middle Eastern, in my opinion, would have the 
 best support weapon. The vehicels in the game are amazing. I personally like the Cobra (US attack 
 chopper) because it is faster and able to maneuver easier. But the Middle Eastern chopper is able 
 to take more damage and has a better chain gun. I enjoy doing barrel rolls in the cobra as an evasive 
 maneuver. It takes practice to do ut it's fun and impressive. The jets are also well generated. 
 The Harriers, with the ability to hover are fast and deadly, if handled well. But the Chinese J-10, 
 compensates less armor with greater agility. You get a very exciting feeling when flying. The maps 
 are well laid out, with the flags being in very specific points on the map. The different environments 
 are also accurately generated with the different locations of the world. 
  Also, having the VoIP and being able to communicate with your squad mates makes the game a whole 
 lot more exciting. I have made lots of friends on this game. 
  So if it's heart-pounding, air-striking, suicide-bombing, fire-fighting, C4's-exploding, artillery-bombarding 
 action you want, then that's what you're going to get in this action packed, squad based tactics, 
 online multiplayer thriller. PERFECT GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiddestructo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 25, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  well this game is good online with all the people and i hate when some people complain cuz they 
 get owned my the artillerty. That just makes it better cuz then u can just go blow it up and no 
 more artillerty
  
  What this game needs is a better singleplayer mode, like have more CPUs not 16 people so that we 
 can practice. Well all i need to do is that to fix my internet problem so that i can play... I 
 blame 1.3 cuz it was workin ok.... O Well.. I also hate dolplin divin. And that everyone someone 
 has a exspensine and it has better weapons 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMMiE_D
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 25, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the Battlefield 2 demo, I got addicted. My friend had recommended it to me, 
 and I wanted to test out my pc. A few dayes later, I bought the real thing. I was in heaven. I 
 had vehicles for everything, tank, hummer, boats, planes and arguably the best, the helicopter.
 
  My only worry with the game was the lack of stuff, but I thought it would all get better with 
 patches. Nope. Things got out of hand. The patches did come, but they are huge, 100mb things, which 
 contain less than no maps. The only good thing I have seen from the patches, is Wake island, and 
 coop. Wow. 400mb of downloading, and thats it. lame.
  So the only way to get the full bf2 experience, is by buying all this new crap EA are using in 
 order to get money, and loose other companies respect by purchasing them. This crap is usually 
 just a little more than a mod. I have purchased special force, and I have to say, I have been more 
 entertained by paint. "Same old, same old"
  So maybe I should talk about the actual game now. The gameplay is fun, for like 20 hours. Then 
 you realise you know every map, and there is nothing else to do. You have squeezed every ounce 
 of fun from the only gameplay mode. And you cant get any fun from killing, because there is no 
 blood whatsoever, so wheres the fun? And for a realistic game, that takes unrealisticness to a 
 whole new level.
  The only, and I mean only reason people play it anymore, is for stats. Stats are now the biggest 
 and cheesiest way to keep players playing. All it does is reject everything, like teamwork and 
 actual thought. All the players want is a new weapon.
  The graphics may blow you away for a matter of miliseconds with its huge maps, and detailed transport, 
 but the actual maps are unbelievably uninteractive and simple. No doors! Nuff said. Also, everything 
 is rather square and neat, which is pretty unrealistic.
  A few good points which are only just worth nothing, are the sounds, which are decent on the whole, 
 the music is pretty kool at first (It will get annoying) , and the gameplay is fun for a while.
 
  So to end, all I have to say, is save all that money that you would spend on this $#!+ EA are 
 modding and selling at 10X their weight in gold, and buy a decent pc, and get Enemy Territory Quake 
 Wars. We already know that there is Originality, Great gameplay, No silly stats, Pure classy graphics 
 and a community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulrikz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 25, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  The Good: 
  Great deal for your money, Squad System, Map Sizes, Excellent graphics, Points System, Commander 
 feature, Built-In VOiP.
  
  The Bad: 
  Takes time to load maps, A bit slow to load with 512 mb ram, patches often bring along a bug or 
 two, no in-game friends list. Game tends to feel a bit unbalanced when fighter-jets bomb everything 
 and blow up everything in the air.
  
  When releasing a game like Battlefield 1942, and seeing how much of a success it is and how loved 
 it is by so many fans, taking the 2nd installment to the modern day era might be risky to some. 
 But Battlefield 2 loses none of it's charm and improves on pretty much every way from BF42 to BF2.
 
  The squad system is just revolutionary, it really brings random people together alot more than 
 ever before in a multiplayer game. Being rewarded for certain team actions like healing, resupplying 
 and all makes this game even more teamplay friendly which is just.. Awesome!
  
  What makes Battlefield 2 so great is the action. BF42 felt a bit odd when it came to infantry action, 
 it was all plasticy and such, but BF2 feels like a solid shooter, taken online and with 64 players!
 
  What's also cool is that you can unlock new weapons, every point you earn in the game adds to 
 your account and once you get a certain number of points, you can unlock a new weapon to use in 
 the battle. Every kit has one unlockable weapon.
  And you earn points by just helping. You can give ammuntion to soldiers who have been out and gunning 
 for a while, heal injured ones, you even get points for sitting in a vehicle when the gunner kills 
 someone, taking and assisting flag capture, flag defending, repairing base-equipment etc etc. There 
 is just loads of ways to earn points. And since most people want to unlock weapons and etc, they 
 will heal you and resupply your ammo stock since they want points! And this way, there is almost 
 always a will for teamplay amongst the team!
  
  What's also great is the maps, every map comes in three sizes. 16, 32 and 64 player versions. They 
 don't differ in terms of design but more in base placement, flag positions which you must hold 
 and take over and how powerful artillery strikes your commander can call down. 16 player is often 
 just infantry based, you are given light transport vehicles and at most one tank. At 32 there is 
 often a mix between infantry, vehicles and sometimes aircraft. At 64 there is almost always aircraft, 
 tanks and etc. And there are about 9-10 maps or something and they all come in three sizes so it 
 feels more like the double or triple sometimes! 
  
  And yes, artillery you say, that's new huh! One soldier on each team can become a commander, he 
 has a map where he can tell his squads where to attack, drop down vehicles, supply drops (which 
 replenish your health and ammunition and repairs damaged vehicles) , UAV scans which reveals enemies 
 on the radar and artillery strikes. The commander has direct access to all the squads on the team 
 and can clearly see what kits they are using like Assault kit, Anti-tank kit and so forth, so he 
 can put a squad with alot of anti-tank kits on attack to flank a tank that's inbound and set a 
 assault-based squad on flag capture. Sure most squads don't listen but this is a great feature 
 for those who want teamplay.
  
  That said, the whole game is there, and so is the graphics which looks amaaaazing when bumped up 
 to max. It just looks gorgeous and is just thrilling to play! It's sounds alot and alot better 
 than it's predecessor, the game has alot of good sounds for everything. Nothing feels out of place 
 except if you put the volume quality on Low, but heh, you get what you pay for!
  
  So well, you like infantry battles, vehicles and just the feel and rush of a war going on combined 
 with that Xbox 360 points hunt feel? You've got it all here. If you liked the BF series, you are 
 going to love this, this is simply in my humble opinion the best MP shooter out there and one that 
 is just tremendous fun with friends!
  
  Bring your friends into a squad play and just have loads of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just_lester
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 22, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  BF2 immerses you in to the fight and the intensity of a... well... battlefield. Whether you are taking 
 a break from Counter Strike or just looking for a fun shooter with a lot of depth, you'll do good 
 investing your money here.
  
  Gameplay - 
  If you the type who wants to run and gun... sure, you'll have a lot of fun. But that said, there 
 is still a lot of depth to this TACTICAL shooter. The thing is squad play; you can take command 
 of a squad, where you can order them to Attack, defend, advance, call for "fire rain", etc; even 
 in the heat of battle, it never really bogs the action down.
  
  What keeps this getting perfect 10 is the weakness in the single player department. The AI is somewhat 
 not used to this squad thing, they will take longer to respond, and in a less logical way. But 
 heck, you wont really notice it since you'r too busy picking heads.
  
  Graphics - 
  Absolutely beautiful scenery, with greatly detailed weapons, vehicles, and vegetation; water looks 
 shiny, reflective; the little things like rings and loose grenades on guns characters all have 
 scripted physics and all adds realism to the whole battlefield. The sight of a missile barrage 
 from a helicopter is just... HIGH!!!
  
  Great touches made here too, such as the effect of the whole idea of you being near an explosion 
 or a firing tank is not good. When a grenade or a vehicle explode near you, your whole screen will 
 go blurry and shaky for a while, then you will recover from the blast... that is if you are not 
 wasted yet.
  
  The reason this is not getting a perfect 10 is the fact that, if you want your BF2 to look absolutely 
 top notch, you'll need one hell of a system. The average joe bloes like me wont be near the 60 
 fps on a medium or lower setting.
  
  On lower settings, the lighting will be sacrificed first; all "characters" (by that i mean the 
 vehicles as well) will become dark and grainy and less affected by light.
  
  Sound - 
  Not much to say here. Radio voices are good, one command will have 3 or 4 variations (like "roger 
 that", "10-4", "okay" all belong to the command roger) ; this way the radio chatter wont become 
 so dry.
  
  The guns sound all superb. The humming noise in your ear when something explode near you is very 
 realistic and annoying, just like they should be.
  
  Value - 
  Man... I don't care what people say... you can play the hell out of this game.
  Just if you care, 
 the single-player portion is there to help you master the skills and getting used to the interface.
 
  I wont even get in to details about the online play... CUZ IT'S CRAZY!
  
  Those of you who enjoy online shooters and pwning people... look no further.
  
  Well... there 
 you go. No matter who you are, even if you never dreamt of being in a war or fight for freedom.
 
  
  GO GET THIS GAME!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 22, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  As a fan of the Battlefield series I definately had to get BF2 and it came out to be just what 
 everyone said it would. I would definately have to say this is probably best in the series so far 
 and any BF2 is going to enjoy this. With lots of weapons, tanks and explosions BF2 can keep you 
 occupied for quite some times. And now you unlock stuff as your skill grows so now you actually 
 get something out of playing BF2. As of course its meant really to be an online game so the singleplayer 
 is a bit boring but multiplayer definately packs the heat of combat. I thought tanks should still 
 be a bit more strong but that just my opinoin and I thought that helicopters were a bit difficult 
 to fly you really have to get the hang of them.
  
  And now thats theres expanisions and coming expansions you have a really good reason to pick BF2 
 and play it till you feel like you want to go pick up Special Forces expansion then Armored expansion 
 when it comes out so you have a lot to look forward to if you buy this game. Explosions and stuff 
 are pretty cool graphics and all were freaking great! This game will definately leave you asking 
 for more I recommend this for any FPS player or BF fan alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigEfenRobot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 21, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  The guy that said "If your not looking for a flight simulator then stay far away" didnt like the 
 game because he couldent take down people in hellicopters and couldent get any kills... you know 
 why? Beacause hes a nub and he sucks. Iv only been playing for a couple of days and I usualy get 
 a kill death racio of 20kills 10 deaths with my sniper.
  Dont cry cause you cant kill anyone that dosent mean the game sucks that means you suck.
  Pick 
 up this game. Learning curve is a day before you realy start to pick up on the different types 
 of soldiers you get to be then you can start pwning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swedish-marine
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 21, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  To start with I must say I have not played more than the demo of the game so I will not go in-deeph 
 with the value of the game but focus on the actual gameplay.
  
  Alright, first off I was a bit on the negative side against Battlefield 2 becuase all I've heard 
 about it was the "omg it pwns"-reaction from everybody I've talked to and from forums ect, and 
 that never sounds good, the same thing with Half Life 2 which I found rather dissapointing. However, 
 during this time I did also play Americas Army alot while it ran fairly good on my veteran PC and 
 took references from footage of Battlefield 2 and the Americas Army in terms of the realism, graphical 
 stuff and the general reaction to both and I saw that BF2 obviously had better graphics but I thought 
 it still wouldn't stand up to the tactical and realisic gameplay of the Americas Army game. But 
 after all I suppose I was pretty wrong, Battlefield 2 delivers everything that the Americas Army 
 games didn't, such as fast-paced action, vechicles, ect. and it still does so in a good, balanced 
 way. 
  
  But I'm not going into a Americas Army VS Battlefield 2 topic, they focuses on different things 
 but I must say Americas Army is awesome for it's price-tag. 
  
  Battlefield 2 offers a beatiful graphical engine that will probably make a not-too-top-notch computer 
 to spin around as well as the great sound that will also need a relativitly new sound-card to work 
 properly on maxed settings, but for those who are running on rather accessable stuff there's ofcourse 
 some 'normal' settings allowing about all sound-cards to play the sounds in a way that works well 
 enough. The graphics in the game pays out a really important deal to make you believe that you're 
 on this huge, epic battlefield trying to push the enemy off your back, but even on lowest settings 
 you'll have a good time becuase of the great mechanism in the game, though you will not have that 
 much too stare your eyes off at. 
  
  The whole game is focused on the Infanty side, you can still hop into vehicles but you'll soon 
 see that there needs to be good balance between the team-members kits or classes to gain victory. 
 So, there's about 7 different classes, there's Special Forces which are armed with red-dot aiming 
 capacity on their fully-automatic rifles as well as they're capable of delivering C4 charges on 
 enemy vehicles or put them on the ground and wait until enemy forces pass by, there's the Sniper 
 kit which will have your charather camoflouged and armed with two anti-personell mines and a scoped 
 sniper rifle to take out enemy on a distance, both the Snipers and Special Forces comes with silenced 
 M9 pistol. The Assult kit gives you a burst-firing rifle with a grenade launcher to take out infantry 
 or light vehicles. And now for the most interesting kits or classes, the Support kit, Engineer 
 kit, Medic kit and Anti-Tank Kit. All those, except for the Anti-Tank Kit allows you to help your 
 team-mates with ammo (Support) , revive or healing players (Medic) and reparing and deploying Anti-Tank 
 Mines (Engineer) to gain special assists and make your team even more succesful against the enemy. 
 All these three classes/kits also allows you to turn some vehicles into mobile repair, medic or 
 supply wagons so you'll be able to heal and support players in a smaller erea around the vehicle 
 as they still treat their main purposses. But as for me, I like the Medic class the best becuase 
 there's nothing better than running through the epic Battlefield to revive a fallen comrad either 
 if you succeed or get killed, you'll also have this revenge-feeling after a comrad revive you and 
 then suddenly he gets killed and you'll probably go all mad and shoot that guy who did it and all 
 his pals around (you'll do that all the time but it's never that satisfying as the revenge-kills 
 are) . The classes are important but having a poor leader would probably turn victory into defeat 
 in few minutes. Players in a team can split into different Squads with each one their own leader 
 to make the communication and assults easier between the players, all players in a squad may also 
 respawn from the Squad Leaders positions. But what the Squad leader (s) is really doing is not only 
 laying stradegies for the Squad Members but also communicating with the Commander of the whole 
 team to launch an artillery barrage at a specific location or giving supplies, orders for the team 
 and requesting Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) to surround a smaller area to spot enemy troop movements 
 and so on. So the communication and having a good leader is probably one of the most important 
 thing in this game if you want to gain victory.
  
  The vehicles in the game is pretty well balanced, there's fast-moving FATV's such as Buggies and 
 Humvees as well as the M1A2 and T95 Main Battle Tanks and more. And those vehicles is looking and 
 feeling really great and the controls are rather simple to get into, escpecially if you've played 
 the previous games in the Battlefield-Series but the learning curve of the vehicle controls would 
 come really natural to new players as well. And talking about the balance of the vehicles I could 
 take some rather obvious examples just to get it over with, there's fast moving FATVs with poor 
 armor but will allow players to take on infantry in a very effective way just as dropping off soldiers 
 to take out tanks or general transport in the middle of the battlefield, but look out for enemy 
 tanks, one shot and you're history. There's also Armored Personell Carriers (APC) with many slots 
 for soldiers to fill in and it's rather fast and well-armed with a chain-gun with explosive rounds 
 and TOW missiles to take on other tanks or successfully roll through infantry possitions. And ofcourse, 
 the heart of any ground-battlefield, the Main Battle Tank, well-armored and heavily armed with 
 a machinegun next to the main heavy 120mm canon which allows you to take out infantry or other 
 matters while you reload the main canon which could take some time, the disadvantage with the Main 
 Battle Tank is that it's canon cannot engage enemy aircraft or helicopters all too good and it's 
 slow speed make it a easy target for the Aircraft and groups of Anti-Tank Infantry to take out. 
 I can't describe all the different vehicles becuase I haven't seen or played with all yet nor would 
 anyone be interested to read about it, you'll have to play it and understand it yourself.
  
  And as for the Aircraft vehicles there's basicly two types or airborne vehicles, the Helicopters 
 and Jets, both focuses on different things. The Helicopters are ideal for taking out the Tanks 
 and infantry running on open field and giving support to the ground troops but is a easy target 
 for enemy Jets and Anti-Tank Infantry when the Heli is on low attitude. The Jets on the other side 
 is primed for taking out enemy aircraft and also static vehicles or groups of enemy units with 
 their heavy bomb-capacity, but their low ammo capacity is making them unable to engage enemy units 
 during a longer period of time. Their fast speed is making them hard to manuver and is making them 
 rather impossible to hit with ground troops Anti-Tank Missiles or Heat-Seeking missile TOWs but 
 when you get a hit they'll probably go down for good due to their poor armor. Still, Jet VS Jet 
 is the most succesful way. 
  
  This might not be really topic for this specific review but only for this game I'm going to upgrade 
 my PC so I can play it with higher details and so I feel that it would be worth the price to buy 
 it. The software is still rather expensive thinking about it's been in the mix for almost a year 
 but it's sure worth it in the end. And once again, this review was done from what I've played for 
 a really long time in the DEMO of the game, not the retail game but I've only gotten a climpse 
 of what this game is capable to do. 
  
  I would recommend this game to everyone who are playing First Person Shooters on the PC. (Sorry 
 if this review might gotten a bit blurry, I'm pretty tired and might not have payed too much attention) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irish8
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 20, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 was a huge release when it came out in 2005, and for good reason- it was the long 
 awaited follow up to Battlefield 1942 (which to date hadn't had an "actual" follow, and more or 
 less just expansions of some sort or another) . And at first, this game really does seem what we've 
 been waiting for, but after awhile of playing it doesn't become "I'll get better and this will 
 be more fun." and DOES become "Wow... this is lame" as you're killed without firing a shot for 
 the 6th time in a row.
  
  Now, in a fast paced action game, how does this happen? You'd think you'd get a shot off at your 
 enemy- not so. There is one HUGE unbalanced part of this game (and unfortunately something that 
 originally made it unique) and that's the Jet Fighters and the Helicopters. Against a fairly good 
 pilot, these are more or less impossible to take down, and usually only a few players camp the 
 planes the entire game, and the next game and so on.
  
  What's wrong with air vehicles? Well, not only are they hard to kill, but they can utterly decimate 
 anything with ease- whether it be infantry or a tank- and are very hard to be killed by anything 
 but another helicopter/fighter (Which usually won't happen because your team's pilots will also 
 be busy stat padding and spawn camping) More or less this ruins the experience of the game if you're 
 anything but a pilot. You like being on foot? Stay FAR away from this game- this game is NOT a 
 1st person shooter. You like being in a tank? Well if there's not a chopper around you'll have 
 some fun, but as soon as they find you, just say good bye- you WILL be dead before you can do anything 
 if the pilot is half competent.
  
  EA has more or less done nothing to balance people's ability to counter planes, and in fact several 
 times has made it more difficult by doing things like lowering anti air weapon's range. This was 
 probably to appease the pilots who by far are the main players who play all the time because they 
 care about their stats more than actually playing the game for fun (and they also by far get the 
 most kills and highest stats- no infantryman/tanker or otherwise can come close in comparison to 
 a decent pilot.)
  
  So as I said, you want to camp a plane and play a very simple flight simulator where you get to 
 haplessly slaughter people on the ground with relative immunity? This is the game for you. If you 
 actually like playing a game that works decently and is fun to more people than just the "super 
 leet" stay the hell away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodFalconX
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 20, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Basically, this game is the on my top 3 list for First Person Shooters on the PC. It's got everything 
 you'd ever need, Tanks, Jets, Helicopters, Trucks, Artillery, Commanders, Squads, Guns, Tactics, 
 etc. etc. As you may have guessed, my opinion on this game is nearly flawless but there are a couple 
 things that I could complaing about that don't really effect the overall game. There are issues 
 with the graphics when it comes to high settings. I have a Radeon 256 MB Video Card and yet I have 
 to set the graphics on low in order to get smooth gameplay. What bugs me is, that a few months 
 back it worked perfectly on high but all of a sudden it became laggy and began jerking around when 
 I tried to play it on high. I'm not sure if that's my computer, or a well known issue but either 
 way, it's a problem. Also, the game is a bit glitchy when it comes to certain things. For instance, 
 when you jump off a building, you find yourself having to push the parachute button about 10 times 
 before it deploys. This only happens when you jump short heights because when you jump out of a 
 plane, it deploys on your first push of the button. Also, another problem is the total ownage that 
 a helicopter can inflict on an army. This is probably realistic because I mean, it's a helicopter. 
 But it gets pretty crappy when the moment that you spawn your face is splattered by a .50 cal or 
 whatever. Other than a few extremely minor picky-arse complaints, this game is crazy good. It takes 
 you far beyond any other FPS in the likes of real warfare. It even keeps you coming back what with 
 the Special Forces expansion and all the new guns and the awards and medals and BAH! Just get the 
 freaking game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzDraon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  Before Battlefield 2 I was big into Typhoon Rising. I spent many hours wasting away in that game, 
 then my cousin bought me Battlefield 2 and I never went back to TR. BF2 has every element in a 
 online game I look for. It has the FPS aspect, the great graphics that can be used to the fullest 
 with my 7900GT, it has the RPG aspect to it where I can unlock new weapons, it has 3 expansions 
 incase I ever get bored with just BF2, and it has the community to back all this up. BF2 is one 
 of those games that you can spend 14 hours playing if you want to, or you can just play for 30 
 min. Even the players who have been playing for a long time and have unlocked most or all the weapons 
 dont necessarily have an advantage over you. The weapons in this game are all well balanced so 
 even someone just joining the game can stand their own ground against someone who has been playing 
 a long time. The only difference is experience. Unlike others like Planetside which is a RPG first, 
 FPS second. BF2 is a FPS first, RPG second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this for around 6 months, it has everything you would want in an fps:
  classes - sniper etc
  ranks
  MMO
  grahpicly great
  tanks, planes, cars, boats, helicopters 
 and more!
  super fun
  mostly nice community
  
  There are a few LITTLE niggles about this game like, can take a long time to load 1/10 times. There 
 are also some little bugs, but they are usually fixed because patches are always coming out so 
 the game is gettin better and better.
  
  so if you dont already have this game i would highly recommend this to you, fps fan or not its 
 an amazing game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ottsellover
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  i havnt gotten to deep in the game yet but i think anyone who reviews this game has to throw out 
 props to the online play. the online is phenominal. i can play for 5 or six hours nonstop and it 
 will only feel like an hour or two. 
  
  the graphics are almost perfect with only one or two flaws, but i wouldnt expect anything less 
 from a 360 game. the sound is great and really makes you feel like youre there. 
  
  i dont play the story mode that much but from what i have played its ok. if your a big online fan 
 buy it but if youre not dont bother. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snicky00
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This is the best pc game ive ever played!!! it is incredible in ever way. from precise controls 
 to pretty cool vecheles and weapons this game is amazing. im no good at it yet but i hope i will 
 be soon!!! u can make a squad of team mates and have votes on who the commander is. there are different 
 kits with different weapons and greatly different features. there is a useful feature that lets 
 u jump in and out of ur game when ever u want. there are lots of controls to remember but it feels 
 great to ride a heli copter at night, parashoot out, put on ur night vision googles, jump in a car 
 tell ur teamates to man the turrents and then drive off towardes the enemies base. if u have the 
 requierments then get it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plalm
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 18, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Even though this game has been out just shy of a year now, you know what? I still friggin love 
 it! I have a sysytem that is MORE than just able to play it, which makes it only that much more 
 fun, but the requirements just to enjoy aren't even that taxing. It's one of the best shooters 
 of all time I have to say. That's right, of all time. Anybody who disagrees with this surely has 
 know clue of what they're talking about. If you don't already own this I suggest getting it in 
 the new deluxe pack for a better value. Battlefield 2 only keeps getting better and better with 
 its booster packs, Euro Forces and Armored Fury. So stop reading this and go pwn some people on 
 it already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1337pwnage
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 17, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is the modern military conflict installment of the Battlefield series. Battlefield 
 is known for it's multiplayer with huge maps and large teams with vehicles and various weapon/equipment 
 choices. This game in the series does it the best with great graphics, nice stat tracking, unlockables 
 and a ranking system.
  
  If you've ever played a Battlefield game then this is not that much different other than the setting. 
 However, BF2 does tweak the shooting combat a little bit to feel more like a shooter rather than 
 just vehicle combat. Guns feel more useful and different classes of infantry do their part better. 
 You play this game for multiplayer. Singleplayer modes have nothing other than bot matches. Overall 
 the gameplay is better than even with a new feel for combat, however there is some balancing issues 
 and a few irritating exploits that prevent this game from perfect gameplay.
  
  The graphics are amazing for such a massive game like Battlefield has been. Textures look smoother 
 than ever, and lighting is great, but there are steep requirements if you want this game to look 
 the way it should. There are big hiccups in frames when I first have a map running but go away 
 after a minute or two. I suppose that's my computer trying to process all the textures for the 
 first time. You will need a lot of RAM considering the load times and the amount it takes to keep 
 the game stable.
  
  Guns sound like they have more punch to them unlike 1942 or Vietnam. Voice overs are alright but 
 they may get annoying after a while. Music is setting as you'll have a middle eastern remix of 
 the classic BF theme while loading a middle eastern map, and the same goes for the Chinese maps. 
 Sound effects are great and don't seem to have a problem.
  
  You'll be playing this game for hours and hours, collecting awards, getting promoted while playing 
 online, if you love battlefield games. The gameplay almost never gets old and is extremely fun 
 when things are going your way in battles. You will run into frustrating rounds however, but there 
 is a ton of fun to be had with the mulitplayer in this game. Overall I love this game, and if it 
 weren't for a few irritating bugs or occasional balancing issues then this game would be perfect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tahir1834
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2006 4:03 am PT
Review:  Me and my friends, before, always played strategy games when we went to internet cafes, such as 
 Rome: total war, Warcraft 3: frozen throne, Red Alert 2, Lord of the Rings: Battle for MiddleEarth2... 
 
  Where we live, Counter Strike is the most popular shoot 'em up games. One day we had a field trip 
 to the mall; we had spare time, so we decided to play at the interet cafe. We saw people playing 
 Counter Strike, they aske if we could join them. We did. We had so much fun!!! Later all we would 
 play was counter strike. One time, I clicked the wrong game and chose Battlefield 2. 
  The graphics were so good on the intro, I decided to continue. It was confusing at first, but I 
 liked it. From then on all we played was Battlefield 2.
  
  Battlefield 2 is the best PC game there is. It isn't just shooting, and it isn't just flying, it 
 is everything put together. I recommend it for teenagers only, because it may be too violent or 
 complicated for younger people, and adults wouldn't really think about playing "silly, stupid... games"
 
  Also, this games must be played at an internet cafe or on a lan server, as it is funner with increased 
 amounts of players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyCat9127
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 13, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 brings the intensity of Battlefield 1942 into the modern era with enhanced team play 
 and the latest vehicles and weapons systems available. In this first-person shooter, you'll choose 
 to fight for one of three military superpowers: the United States, China, or the newly formed Middle 
 East Coalition. Armed with advanced weaponry, you can take control of any of the game's vehicles 
 to engage in major conflicts with more than 100 players in some of the largest online battles on 
 the PC. New features to the Battlefield series include destructible environments, character growth, 
 and a Commander mode.
  I despise the way you can still capture command points from inside a vehicle, but many people prefer 
 it the way it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMeS4418
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome!!!!!!! While it does require a bit of a good computer to run on this game 
 is the greatest fps i have played on my computer. The online play is great especially since the 
 people that play are serious. It's not like in halo where everybody just runs around and betrays 
 you. There are specific rules for each server and if you disobey them you get points deducted or 
 you are indefinitely banned from their servers. If you have a headset it is also amazing what you 
 can do with people online.
  
  GRAPHICS: GOOD
  
  SOUND: Authentic military noises and commands from your leaders
  
  VALUE: Great if you like 
 fps games
  
  REPLAYABILITY: As high as it gets 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorbichov
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This shall be the first time i do a review in this format, so here goes:
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game is brilliant, you can fight toe-to-toe, or ranged combat. You 
 can also fly aircraft, helicopters (piloting the Blackhawk gets easy with experience and is real 
 fun) , drive tanks, apcs and jeeps. A new feature to the modern edition is you can bring squaddies 
 back to life with a defibrilator, and you can spawn on "squad leaders" allowing you to get straight 
 back to the action.
  
  Graphics: The graphics for this game are stunning. It is also very realistic and you can easily 
 tell that DICE spent quite a while trying to get vehicle models perfect. All the guns are well-detailed, 
 although on low-spec machines you wont get detail on other players' guns quite as well as on your 
 own.
  
  Sound: The sound is very good, but the theme music should have stuck more closely to the BF:1942 
 tune
  
  Value: This game is definitely worth the price, as long as you have ADSL internet connection
 
  
  Notes: The reason the learning curve is so high is because it takes ages to learn how to pilot 
 airborne vehicles properly, especially helicopters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-mE_16
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  an awsome war game. battlefield 2 is the best fame ever. it is just simply amazing. everything 
 about it from the single player to the multiplayer. if you start off the game just start of with 
 some single player until you get the skills to go online and takle the pros with all the game strategy 
 you have picked up. multiplayer is just revolustionary. each map can go up to a high of 64 players. 
 thats just insane. i also love how there are soo manmy different vehicules in the game. from tanks 
 to hummers to jeeps to aircrafts and boats. and also tons of kits to fulfil you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 9, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a great sequel to the WWII hit, Battiefield 1942. This game has great graphics 
 but if you don't have a up-to-date PC you may need to lower the settings. Multiplayer and Single 
 Player are both moddable so all you modders out there will have fun. Teamwork is key in BF2 along 
 with the ability to use the many guns for each of the 6 kits; Anti Tank, Medic, Assualt, Engineer, 
 Sniper, and Special Ops. The anti tank has a cool guided missile, Medic has defibulators for reviving 
 fallen teammates, Assualt wields a grenade attachment, Engineer has a gangster wrench to heal friendly 
 vehicles, Sniper obviously has its long range rifle, and finally the Spec Ops guy had C4 for blowing 
 up enemy artillery and commander tools. I have had Battlefield 2 since launch and have played it 
 for over 500 hours so there is loads of gameplay. The BF2 community also has matches if you or 
 your clan wants to get competitive. You can play in ranked servers to gain global score for your 
 account to gain access to unlockable weapons and higher ranks/medals/badges. Another good thing 
 is you rarely see hackers so EA/DICE must have a good anticheat system. Your computer needs to 
 have above average requirements to run decently along with fast loading times to maps. While the 
 community for BF2 is large it also has lots of TKing and annoying admins who abuse they're power. 
 The online game has many glitches and exploits that make you want to scream at times but low and 
 behold EA releases patches to stop these things (hopefully) . Finally, other expansions/booster packs 
 for BF2 are avalible and aren't the best in my opinion and feeled rushed except for the recently 
 released Armored Fury (look for my reviews for these later) . Overall, Battlefield 2 is one of the 
 best FPS Multiplayer experiences out right now even with its few bad features making it a must 
 have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpapa123173
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 8, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  I have played from day one. I pre-ordered my copy and have played since the first day of the full 
 release. I can say that I have seen many issues that people have with the game. I myself have had 
 very minor issues. One issue I have had on and off was the friendly going red. I found that if 
 I could see the man that was red and define that he has the same BDUs on that I have on and I 
 can tell that he is of the same origin as me than I could over look it. I have been kicked to desk 
 top from time to time nothing big. I can say that by far! I have had more fun playing this game 
 than any game prior. I have played from the beginning days of Battlefield 1942. Which my friends 
 also rocked the house! Then Battlefield Vietnam, I have liked all the recent booster packs and 
 the SF expansion, although I find myself playing BF2 more than Euro Force or Special Forces, However 
 since the recent release f Armored Fury I have been loving it! I completely love the new booster 
 110% all I can say is EA/ Dice Thanks Guys! I love the BF series, and I can not wait ! For the 
 release of Battlefield 2142! Please make sure its ready for us to play for hours and hours on end! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nascarfan123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is technically is the 3rd battlefield game to come out on the pc with Battlefield 
 1942 and Battlefield Vietnam being the previous games on the pc. Even then it appears that the 
 developers of the game still havent gotten it quite right.
  
  Battlefield 2 features some great sound and graphics, but you will need a top of the line pc in 
 order to experience it all. The maps are really large and are capable of holding 64 players, and 
 when you are at a server with around 60 players it really feels like a full scale battle is happening.
 
  
  With that being in mind there are a lot of new features in the game as well as old ones from the 
 previous games. You will see both sides having the relatively same weapons, vehicles, and airplanes 
 to do battle with. Some of the new features are the squad and commander systems in the game. The 
 squad system allows up to 6 players to organize into 1 smaller team and really gives you the teamwork 
 feel to the game. Voice communication is brought into this game and makes discussing strategy easy 
 and fast to do. The problem is that almost no one uses it unless you find a server which has veterans 
 that know the game by heart. So finding a server that has a lot of people actually using it can 
 be pretty difficult to do. The commander system takes one player, usually whoever is highest in 
 rank, and gives them a map with a birds eye view of the area. That allows them to give commands 
 to attack or defend certain locations or drop supplies at a certain location. A good balance to 
 this is when the commander is using the map and commanding everyone else is that they are a sitting 
 duck, so usually you will have to find some cover away from the battles to effectively command 
 your side.
  
  While all of these features are really cool and make the game fun to play, it is all overshadowed 
 by a lot of technical issues that are in the game.
  
  One of the major problems in the game is that the servers, and server browser, are clumsy and laggy 
 at times. That means expect to have a lot of trouble finding a good server that doesnt have many 
 issues with it. Another problem with the game is that it has some horribly long loading times. 
 When you choose to connect to a server, go and watch some TV or something because you wont be 
 in that server for at least 5 to 10 minutes. Whats also very frustrating, and can happen at times, 
 is that after spending what feels like 6 hours to connect you lose connection to the server. It 
 gets really frustrating and annoying to have this happen, especially if it happens multiple times. 
 Another frustrating part of the game is the accuracy of the guns. When you fire, it appears all 
 of the bullets fly randomly. The game does have the crouch and prone position, but those do not 
 seem to help your accuracy at all. So it gets really annoying when you are trying to shoot down 
 a person while looking down the sights of your gun while in prone position and miss a bunch of 
 times and have them turn around and pick you off real quickly. Vehicles are a great feature to 
 this game, but at times it feels like they are too dominant. That mainly depends on who you are 
 playing the game with.
  
  So this game all comes down to this.
  The Good: Great graphics and sound, large maps which feature full scale battles, the addition of 
 the squad and commander systems to the game.
  The Bad: Laggy servers and clumsy server browser, very long loading times, accuracy problem, at 
 times vehicles too dominant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tranto128
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 8, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  The singleplayer aspect of the game got updated with a patch recently, so it gives you the option 
 to play with up to 64 Bots now, and a huger range of maps, so if you dont have the option to play 
 online its still pretty cool.
  
  Online the game stands out amazingly, Its great fun forming squads with people you meet in game, 
 and sometimes can form a real great squad and have fun communicating over Teamspeak as you raid 
 and take over the entire map together.
  The weapons in game are pretty balanced, there is no real OMGWTFPWNAGE gun, only thing that may 
 be a little unbalancing is the use of tanks and how hard it is to take one down, but some people 
 dont have a problem with that.
  
  The maps are pretty fun to play and the town ones are deffinetly the best.
  
  I recomend you 
 get it if your interested in an Online FPS, but as an offline game, your probly better trying something 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alenfishman
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 7, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  This was a well created game, the maps are hudge the guns are great and the team play is amazing. 
 I have had a lot of fun with this game but the one thing I noticed about this game is that if your 
 not in a team that wants to actually play your not gona get far and your probably not gona have 
 fun. There are a lot of things about this game that are really annoying but at the same time they 
 are all realistic. Like you spawn walk outside to get running and then you get sniped. So you spend 
 half the game trying to find the sniper, then you do kill him and then hey what do you. Hes somewhere 
 else in some other basterdly spot. but like I said this is pretty realistic. This game is really 
 good and really fun and time just flys when your having fun. But most of the time I spent just 
 being irritated and annoyed. This game is great if you have ether a good clan or group that your 
 in that you can play with, or a lot of friends that play and like to actually play. If you just 
 want to get the game to just run around and shoot guys and just do what ever you might find yourself 
 getting over It pretty quick, this is definitely no counter strike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russkie177
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what Payne6705 is smoking, but he's WRONG. This game kicks ass in all ways (but a 
 few) . The vehicles, the kits, the maps. I do agree that the engineer and assault kits lack something, 
 but the engineer upgrade weapons seem to clear that up (the MP7 is a beauty, but the Mk3A1 Jackhammer 
 shotgun is a letdown) . As for the vehicles, almost everything is superb. Flying both airplanes 
 and helicopters is easy to get used to (even if you don't own a joy stick) , and driving ground-based 
 vehicles is spot on. This game gives keyboard-fliers their moneys worth. The only stipulation I 
 have with jets is that when you go into 3rd person mode to fly (like I do-it's easier to move around 
 and be aware of your surroundings) , there's not a cross-hair on the screen, making it impossible 
 to target and destroy other aircraft (it is possible, however, to go on bombing runs as all you 
 need to do is learn how to visually calculate where your bombs will hit-this doesn't take long 
 to learn) . The maps are well designed and fun to play on for hours. Wake island 2007, Strike at 
 Karkand and Gulf of Oman are my favorites (as with many of my friends) . I think the biggest drawback 
 to the game is the almost insane performance requirements. My machine will run it smoothly on the 
 Medium setting, but I know other people who have been dissappointed after buying this as their 
 machines just couldn't run it. Over all, though, this game is worth the money several times over. 
 If you like fairly open-ended wargames and have a machine good enough to run it, this game is a 
 must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrbje
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This game hits some keypoints that makes it a sure hit for almost every joe and jane out there.
 
  
  Most of all it really goes to town on gameplay, it just works, you can jump in and get 10 minuttes 
 of blazing action if 10 minuttes is what you got, or you can get a little deeper involved with 
 squads, command and whatever you wanna make out of it. You might not have a mindblowing array of 
 freedom in gameplay, but the stuff that is in there is rock solid and just plain fun no bull.
 
  
  So with the keyelement in place, simple, basic, allsided gameplay this title goes on to secure 
 the gameplay with good solid graphics and sound, alot of wimpering has been made about the demands, 
 just bull, unless you have a 4+ year old computer the game will work for you just fine.
  
  Only minus i can think of is that the game might encourage teamplay more and also give more options 
 for tactical combat, but then again thats also what make this game so aproachable,, simplisity. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bkinay
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  great game get it............ thats all i really have to say but as i have to write a minimum of 
 a hundred words so great game get it great game get it great game get it great game get it lol. 
 nah this game brings the best of battlefield 1942 and adds tons more with better graphics. this 
 is a very easy and fun game to play as soon as you install it you get straight into the action 
 and you learn everything from there on u get a rank system which is good but if you are a casual 
 player it wil take ages to get any where. 
  
  low points about the game :- (
  as every game this one has its problems and with this one you will have to wait ages to load each 
 level especially when you have changed video quality settings aswell as online waiting ages to 
 verify client data which sum tyms takes longer than the load of the map which can get anoying as 
 well as servers having lag which can cause you to die rather quik. but besides that you will have 
 fun which the game is about and you can try off base things like getting a helicopter inside an 
 air craft carrier or sumthin which is fun as well with your friends lol 
  
  overall i think that if you havent got this game in your collection get ure money get to the shop 
 and get the game simple as. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scalabing67
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this for around 6 months, it has everything you would want in an fps:
  classes - sniper etc
  ranks
  MMO
  grahpicly great
  tanks, planes, cars, boats, helicopters 
 and more!
  super fun
  mostly nice community
  
  There are a few LITTLE niggles about this game like, can take a long time to load 1/10 times. There 
 are also some little bugs, but they are usually fixed because patches are always coming out so 
 the game is gettin better and better.
  
  so if you dont already have this game i would highly recommend this to you, fps fan or not its 
 an amazing game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctaStrangelov
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 3, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Highs: Exellent graphics sound and physics, chaotic battles, great maps, persistant character tracking 
 (including awards and unlocks) , never repetive, balanced kits.
  
  Lows: Mines and vheicles are annoying, long loading times.
  
  You noticed I put this as "underapperciated", 
 well I do seriously feel that the only way to appreciate this engough is to view it as the best 
 game ever. 
  
  This game is has stuff for all action game fans, it is realistic to an extent so it will not take 
 you one hit to die (most times) or twenty hits to kill, the average is about 3-4 if unarmoured 
 class (id est medic, SOCOM) and 5-6 hit if armoured (assult, support gunner) to die so it is not 
 very aggrivating there. The only things that are aggrivating are claymores (only way to make the 
 go away is to blow yourself up) and armour campers (really no good way of getting rid of them) , 
 but besides that this game will almost never get you angery, and plus you will be having such an 
 incredibly awesome time most of the time to care.
  
  BattleField Two has seven, very well balanced kits. The assualt has the best all-around weapon 
 and armour, the SOCOM has the most accurate weapon and plastic explosives despite not wearing armour 
 (however unarmoured kits can sprint longer) , the Support Gunner (my favorite) has a gun as powerful 
 as the assualt but is less accurate and has lower recoil and larger clip, support has armour and 
 can score points by giving teammates ammo, medics can revie dead players who have not respawned 
 yet and heal people who still live, his weapon is be tween the assualt's rifle and SOCOM's carbine 
 in both accuracy and damage. The anti-tank's primary sub-machinegun lack power and accuracy by 
 fires fifty percent fast than the rifles, he is also the only one who can eliminate armour at a 
 range (a SOCOM's bombs can do it too but he must get next to the tank to plant them) .
  The Engineer has a powerful shotgun, but it is only good at close range, he can also repair vhehicles 
 and plant anti-vheicle mines. The sniper ussally takes two hits to kill with a very accurate, though 
 slow firing gun, his mines are an incredible infantry deterant (but for other players they are 
 a giant pain in the ass) , he is however ill equiped for close quaters and almost never wins in 
 CQC. 
  
  The game has three sides out of the box, Middle East, China and Marines, but with the Euroforce 
 booster pack you also get the (overpowered) EU. The Marines fight either MEC or China and MEC and 
 China never fight. Chiatch is required to play on wake) focus on vehiclar combatnese maps like 
 Daquing oilfields and wake island 2007 (1.03 or better patch is needed to play wake) focus on vhedicals 
 with the more urban MEC maps like Karkand and Shraqi focus on close quaters chaotic infanty fights 
 (Uurban maps are way better) . 
  
  The kits on all sides get an unlockable weapon (two unlocks per kit if fully patched and if you 
 have Special Forces on) which makes you a better solider if you play long enough, unlockes are 
 "unlocked" by gaining ranks, ranks are gained by scoring points, the first two ranks do not get 
 unlocks but all ranks after them, until you unlock all the new guns do. 
  
  For doing certain things in a round or over your career (it will become a career) you get awards 
 to show how much you kick ass (that is if you do kick ass) , this will also make want to play more, 
 aside from the ultrafast paced chaotic unrepetitive and outright awesome gameplay.
  
  In conclusion BF2 is most certainly the best game ever and if you have taste you will be playing 
 this game for-a-long-time (ot "DIU" in Latin) . This game has made my life all around more enjoyable 
 and WILL DEFINATALLY do the same for you.
  
  Gunnry Sargeant DoctaStrangelove
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiders5000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  I've played the game now for over a year. It's at patch 1.3 at time of this review. The gameplay 
 is fantastic. Awesome graphics with non-stop wall-to-wall action. I love just about all the features, although, I 
 think DICE left some of the kits incomplete. Mainly the engineer and assult kits. Something there 
 just seems to be missing but I cant quite put my finger on it. The team killer punishment has been 
 much approved but I still dont like the PTK system. The load up times are rather slow too. But thats 
 something more expected of an EA game. All and all though, it's still a great game. Now I'm waiting 
 for the 2nd booster pack "ARMOR FURY". I cant wait to fly that A-10 WARTHOG!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankz54
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 2, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  So far the best war game and first person shooter i have EVER! played, better than Counter Strike 
 and Call of Duty 2. Great graphics, gameplay, sound, everything is just so freaking kool! I say 
 get this game and play it and you will have the best time in your life! So if you wanna have fun 
 and a great time get it, also make sure you have a nice video card because the better you have 
 the better your gameplay and graphics will be on this game, but iam sure many already know that 
 :P This is why i give this game Battlfeild 2 a perfect 10 frome me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 2, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  battlefield 2 tries to bring battle field 1942 into the modern world of war fare yet it fails at 
 it. now the weapon classes and and guns are alright i have no problem with them and the graphics 
 are really nice (for those who have awesome computers even if you dont have a nice computer like 
 me the graphics are decent enough) but the problems are too many like not enough maps!!! in battle 
 field 1942 you have a decent enough amount of maps yet in this game you only have like 8-12 maps 
 not even and it depends how many players you put in to make the maps bigger as example 12 players 
 in one map the map will be small yet 48 players the same map will be bigger with more weapons and 
 tanks helicopters etc etc also you can apply to be a commander which you can control squads of 
 men and drop off supplies anywhere in the map yet this completely throws off balance because commanders 
 can call in for artillery anywhere on the map so it you are trying to caputure a command post the 
 commander calls for artillery and every person there dosent matter a tank or just infantry will 
 be destroyed and then the team you are facing will just take over it when the bombs stop falling 
 it completely ruins strategy and of course i have to mention flying you physically cant fly a helicopter 
 and jets they look cool and bring in a nice touch to the game but you cant fly them at all and 
 for me multiplayer is horrible too much lag (while other online games i play never lag) i dont 
 know why it lags so much but it does and i cant stand it it looks like im trying to play with dial 
 up this was just over hyped and the first game is much much better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pembroke3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 2, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  When i first got this game i expected it to be a fun game but not very long. I was so surprised 
 when I first played it how fun it was. The great thing about battlefield games are the vehicles 
 you can drive. You can also play a level 10 times and find 10 new ways to do something. The multi 
 player is great , the only downside is that if you do not download all the right patches there 
 are not a whole lot of servers. The only downside to this game is that there is no single player 
 campaign or storyline. Also in single player you can only play a 16 player map. This is a great 
 game especially if you like multi players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xyber04
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 1, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  Well as many of you may know, that battlefield 2 is a great game. and its highly addictive, many 
 many days of fun. I play it almost everyday, and its always fun :)
  
  Graphics: Me not being able to have maxxed graphics with my PC it still looks pretty - pretty. 
 I like the detailed characters, vehicals, the realism. the long view range. its damn good. and 
 im sure if i had a great PC i would enjot BF2 even more. 9/10
  
  Sound: This gam is not meant to have a suburb sound track, but it does have nice realism, somone 
 shoots to the left... you hear the gun shot to the left, vice versa, realism is good when it comes 
 to FPSs becasue you need to know where your enemie is. Although i have never stood next to a tank 
 as it drives by, when i have my speakers up it sounds like thats what it would sound like it real 
 life. if that made any sense. in summary. sound is pretty great :D 9/10
  
  Gameplay: This game is great, you can use radio commands, join squads - AND even play as the commander 
 of the WHOLE team, of up to 32 people! its pretty cool, controls are good, and fluid, you got all 
 you need in a FPS... besides zooming with the sniper rifle, you only have a fixed zoom when you 
 look thogh your scope. i wish you could like double it, or zoom out further so it would be more 
 simple to spot enemies. also, i dot like how the sniper crosshair when zoomed is kinda thick, so 
 its harder to get percise shots.
  I dont think EA took to much time on the Sniper kit compared to other kits. but. its still REALLY 
 REALLY REALLY FUN! 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krekar
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 31, 2006 4:35 am PT
Review:  this is the best action game ive ever played it got beutiful graphics and wonderful game play.
 
  this is the best online action game i have ever played this is a must buy game...
  the wonderful about the single player is that u can play wiht good bots.
  and why do we have 
 to write a 100 words its a waste of time=)
  got damit still not workin
  ok ok if u are going to buy an first person shooting game this is a must buy 
  game enjoy.
 
  wtf is this ****
  la kla la ajd
  d dsf f sfs f fd fd fd fd f df df 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  Let's just put this up front. I've never played Battlefield 1942. Shoot me, flame me, curse my 
 ancestors and their dog, whatever. I just never could get into the historical FPS genre. I prefer 
 my shooters present day and onwards, if you get my drift. Yep, Machine guns and large weapons that 
 emit various forms of light and/or radiation for me, thank you very much. 
  
  Then I heard about Battlefield 2. And I felt a tingle. From my brain all the way to my calloused 
 right index finger. Finally, I would be able to experience the same joy as my friends once did 
 with weapons and vehicles I could relate to. I could hardly wait for it to come out. 
  
  And now it has. And my verdict? If BF:1942 was anything like this game, I should have beat my friends 
 senseless for not trying harder to convince me to play it. Battlefield 2 is that good, but by no 
 means perfect. 
  
  The opening movie gives you a good sense of what you're getting yourself into, finding games to 
 suit your tastes in easy, the BF2HQ page is very informative, and you can customize everything 
 up the wahzoo in the options, which might actually be necessary. But more on that in a minute. 
 As for the game itself, it's surprising how much realism is fit into a supposedly arcadey shooter. 
 Guns behave as they should in the real world, being fairly inaccurate at a distance, and Vehicles 
 drive faily well. Albeit if you decide to fly (via the game's Helicopters or Jets) seriously consider 
 upgrading to a joystick, mousing with the aircraft can be an exercise in frustration to learn, 
 let alone master. 
  
  Single player mode is the one dissapointing aspect to the game. Limited to 16-player maps, they 
 play quick and are relatively unfufilling. Good perhaps for the green amoung us who want to pratice 
 without ridicule, but that's about it. DICE might have done better by turning singleplayer into 
 a tutorial to explain how the myriad of interfaces in the game work, but oh well. Multiplayer is 
 what you're really buying this game for anyway. 
  
  There's a limited variety to the maps you can play, most being head-on collisions between the armies 
 as they contest various flagpoints. Stratagy can be utilized well; Enemy aircraft giving you trouble? 
 Deny them by taking their airfield flag if you can. Tanks your cup of tea? there's usually one 
 flagpoint that's chock full of armor. I did wish that there were more game modes besides conquest, 
 but what's available works out just fine. 
  
  BF2 is a thing of beauty, running high detail and high resolution. Explosions billow, vehicles 
 shimmy while moving, plants sway in the breeze, so it's definately worth the upgrade. 
  
  Sound-wise the game is also good. Vehicles rumble and roar to life, Jets boom when they pass overhead, 
 and guns have a meaty, rich sound when firing. In a nice touch, voices for the individual armies 
 are country specific: English for the marines, Persian for the MEC, and What sounds like Mandarin 
 for the PLA. Good for suspending your disbelief and immersing you in the feel of the gameplay. 
 
  
  Speaking of gameplay, it's rock-solid in BF2, with just one caveat. Weapons are inaccurate, so 
 it behooves you to work with your squad to take down targets. And since the game rewards you for 
 teamwork and things other than frags you won't feel left out on the leaderboard when the round 
 ends. I've had the joy of playing with my friends, where Squadmates would call out requests and 
 targets, the squadleader would call out for support and artillery, and the commander would dish 
 supplies and artillery out to the various squads under his command, call for airstrikes from jets 
 in the air, and direct his squads around like an orchestra Maestro. Played the way it was ment 
 to be played, any virtual army will run like a well-oil machine. 
  
  Oh yeah, time for that caveat I told you about. If your army DOESN'T work together, prepare for 
 a bit of frustration. In public games people who have no intention of leading well will abuse the 
 commander feature. TK'ing is rampant and idiots will punish you for their own blatant stupidity. 
 One exmple: I played an engineer, and my squadleader told me to mine a particular road into a flagpoint 
 we just captured, in order to hold off the enemy armor our sniper had spotted inbound, while we 
 waited for supplies from our commander. I did so, and called out on radio and text that the road 
 was mined. Another non-squad member spawned at the flag, hopped into a nearby jeep, and proceeded 
 to blow himself up on my mines. Plural. As in repeatedly respawn and drive a vehicle to oblivion 
 on my carefully laid mines. I understand that once might be an accident, but after four, your just 
 plain retarted. What's worse he punished me every single time he died, and eventually the server 
 booted me for "excessive team killing". That's just one example, but others abound, so prepare 
 to be shot, shelled, run over, blown up, and otherwise made dead by people on your own side who 
 don't play as a team. 
  
  But even with the quibbles I've mentioned, Battlefield 2 is still a wonderful experience that rewards 
 you for your persistance. Definately pick it up, and prepare to waste your free time away.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tacoballs
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I really like the different urban landscapes the game has to offer. Run down towns in the middle 
 of no where. I can go from that to a warehouse fight in the middle of the night. 
  
  I also like that you don't have the same team aspect as other FPS's (Halo comes to mind first) . 
 The servers are open to everyone (for the most part) and it's always easy to find a game. 
  
  My chief complaint would be the times when you're on a map and there are a few people who are 
 great pilots and making it nearly impossible to even spawn. Whenever there's kick vote (whether 
 justified or not) it seems like there are rarely enough people voting. Could be just me though.
 
  
  Either way, great game. I'm not a game reviewer, but this could go on and on about all the good 
 points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wingman15
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 30, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I can't say enough about this game. I originally rated this game as a 10. I have played it since 
 its release last June and I have re-rated this game a 9 due to bugs that are still in the game. 
 Despite the continued minor bugs, this game is AMAZING. I have never played a game that is different 
 each time I play it. There are so many options in this game that each round brings a new experiance. 
 
  The addition of the expansion and booster packs only adds more to this already awesome game. I 
 wish there were more maps in the booster packs, but the price is right.
  The visuals are awesome, the gameplay is the best fun I have ever had, and the options almost seem 
 endless. 
  
  Cons - Some bugs still exist that have been with the game since its release a year ago such as 
 the Red/Blue bug. However it is rare that I see this bug so I classify this as minor. 
  
  Lots of cheating happens in this game which is a letdown. But DICE has made good strides in taking 
 care of some exploits, but most of these items should have been in the game upon release. It should 
 not take 9 months to fix bunny hopping. 
  
  The browser still is not very accurate even a year later and numerous updates to it. Not sure why 
 they can't get a simple MP browser to work, but they can't.
  
  Pros - The gameplay itself is what saves and makes this game. Its absolutly fun to play. I have 
 yet to play a round that was identical and I have over 200 hours in this game. 
  
  Stat Tracking - This is a great addition to the game. What I love most about the stats is not the 
 bragging rights, but it has actually forced me to play this game using ALL the kits as I strive 
 to achieve certain goals in the game. It has added longer life to the game and keeps me coming 
 back for more.
  
  Overall, this game is worth every penny. I have not played a game this fun to date. I look forward 
 to future boosters, expansion, and other games such as BF2142. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prophet1980
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 30, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  Having had this game since the release date i feel i have a reasonable understanding of this great 
 game.
  
  Its got great graphics, although you need some mighty system specs to see them as if you have anything 
 less than 1GB of ram the graphics will look poor and you will lag on the larger servers. Going 
 from a resolution of 800 x 600 with medium detail to 1024 x 768 with high detail makes a HUGE difference 
 to the way the game looks.
  
  The sound is excellent and being able to chat via headset to you squad is fun if not sometimes 
 emensly annoying. Some of the weapons lack punch but that could be said of all of the BF games.
 
  
  When you first start out on this game it can feel like quite a lonely place. Joining a server with 
 no one you know on it, hundreds of other people doing exactly the same thing = no team play. The 
 only way to play this game is to give it some time, meet some people and join a clan. Thats when 
 the REAL fun begins and you can actually feel like being part of a team.
  
  I think my main gripe with this game is its lack of game modes. There is one mode and not too many 
 maps to play with. It would have been great if they had of added servers like in COD2 where by 
 if you get shot, your out of the round, search & destroy style. Or even CTF. The normal team deathmatch 
 mode just doesnt cut it for me anymore. How can this game ever be realistic if when you die you 
 just respawn at the nearest spawn point run up a hill, get shot, start over again..... It does 
 get very boring.
  
  On the whole its a very fun game and the ranking system of your profile rewards you nicely as you 
 progress.
  
  Its well worth checking out.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambamatic
Rating: 4
Date: May 30, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  I got all sucked up in the hype of this game and decided to buy it.... usually I don't go for the 
 multiplayer games because I just dont have the time... but I figured that I would give it a try 
 because of the great reviews that this game received.
  
  First off, I'm running a very high spec rig with Fx-53 processor, Nvid 7800 GTX OC'd card, X-fi, 
 etc, on a Cable connection that is darn near close to T1, so none of the criticism I shoot off 
 here has to do with my rig bottlenecking, or some of the other nonsense that people like to ripose 
 with when someone complains about the graphics of a game. 
  
  And to the graphics.... I am not impressed. First of all, it's VERY difficult to distinguish your 
 teammates from those on the other teams unless you get REALLY close. Second, the graphics just 
 aren't that cool. There's very little distance vision, and the overall feel is just too cartoony 
 for me. There's something about it that just feels and looks Cheesy. The sounds of the weapons 
 firing is so cheesy that it's almost silly.... and stupid details like a SNIPER RIFE HAVING NO ZOOM 
 is ridiculous. 
  
  Second, the amount of time that it takes to find a game, get into the game, connect with other 
 people, and get into a good battle is just too long... and a lot of the controls and commands are 
 just too counter intuitive to use effectively. In the gameplay itself, far too often you get into 
 a game and you're with x other number of people, and they're 1. unwilling to help anyone who isn't 
 a total ninja with the game or they're 2. totally rude and treat you like crap. Further, people 
 love to do stupid crap like hide out near the spots where people respawn and just kill them over 
 and over and over and over again. Even after a good 8 hours of gameplay I was still running into 
 the issues where I'd respawn and within 5 seconds I was dead again... and this would happen like 
 8, 10 times in a row. Far too often, people don't act like a squad, take their time and plan strategy, 
 etc..... they just run around like crazy killiing everyone all the time like "Unreal Tournament" 
 style. Fine, but if I'm going to play like that, then I'm going to play UNREAL and not this piece 
 of garbage. 
  
  The maps are not really that cool either... and the introduction of air combat is okay, but the 
 maps are really too small and uni-dimensional for effective use of the planes, etc. 
  
  If you are the type of person who has 4 hours at a time to sit and play video games, and become 
 a total ninja who meets all his friends on line, you might have fun living this game.... because 
 that what you have to do in order to enjoy this thing. If you have any semblance of a real life 
 at all, and dont appreciate 12 year olds using potty language while they destroy in play everything 
 that was supposed to make the game interesting in the first place, save your 40 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LocutisofBorg
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 29, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  First I'd like to say that single player is very poor. The bots have poor AI, and you can only 
 play a few of the smallest maps. Multiplayer is incredible, though. You can play with up to sixty-four 
 players with all these cool squad features and the commander who can issue things like artillery 
 strikes and supply drops. The graphics are great, especially for the scale of the game, and the 
 sounds are realistic too. There is an online ranking system which determines who has seniority 
 when it comes to the commander, and you get to unlock weapons as your rank progresses. You have 
 to play ranked servers though, so make sure to remember and check that in the server filter. You 
 can start your own servers for free, but they can't be ranked. You have to rent one for that which 
 costs a monthly fee. There are seven classes and three teams and a secondary unlockable weapon 
 for every class. Vehicle battles are amazing, but watch out for the anti-tank class! You have to 
 keep up with the patches, which take along time to download but fix balance issues and add some 
 new features. Also, if your a fan of mods, there are tons being made for battlefield 2!
  
  I'd wait until the price is no higher than $40, but it's definitely a great game that your bound 
 to have hours of fun playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khoo1992
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 29, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  This game rocks, the best First Person shooter ever. The gameplay is so nice and you can heal other 
 people when they are wounded. The graphic also very nice, almost like the real world, the sound 
 also realistic. The battlefield game improved better and better. The soldier class, vehicles, planes, 
 weapons are deeply, totally very nice. But... the planes and choper you need joystick or else you 
 hard to control and crashed, thats a bad thing. I prefer this game than other First Person Shooter 
 or Military game, very very nice. This game have also a lot of expansion pack and upgrade your 
 battlefield. Final word is this game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 28, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  ok this is going to be short before you buy the game... 
  
  graphics amazing... all these cool weapons aircraft and tanks WOW! some of these option in game... 
 WOW the artillary WOW! everything is WOW! 
  
  ecept ... the big issue with this game ACCURACY! it is a load of crap... you could use a SF gun.... 
 a sniper and put a round in the enemy and not kill him... you could have that curser his ugly head 
 waiting for a headshot... and BOOM! no kill... they really lacked out on the accuracy... even standing 
 still prone or crouching does not help exacly... great game... just the accuracy so be picky on 
 ure money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kkrokotillianis
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 28, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Battlefield 2 for a while now, in a desperate attempt that it should live up 
 to the 9.3/10 score Gamespot has so cockily bequethed upon. Unfortunately for me, I can find no 
 such evidence to garuntee a "Superb" score. Biased? Probably. Bribed? They just might be (It IS 
 the internet, after all) .
  
  The production values are fantastic, make no mistake. The sound is impeccable, and there's no greater 
 surprise than hearing shots in the distance, mistaking them for ambiatic effects, and then realizing 
 (much to my pleasure!) , that my TEAMMATES were causing those frigtening chords of deadly music.
 
  
  But the game, unfortunately, looks better in screenshots than it does in actual motion. The animation 
 is terrifyingly artificial. Running soldiers look like puppets strapped to the gills (a la Team 
 America, which ain't a good thing, son) , and, when dead, are not realistically collapsed onto the 
 ground, or blown across the ground like so much sand. Rather, the jump up, arms flailling randomly, 
 unto the fall onto the earth, only to fade away in front of your eyes. And while this death sequence 
 does offer a chuckle or two, it doesn't make for a realistic modern warfare experience that BF2 
 WANTS to deliver.
  
  The gameplay is... decent, at best, annoying, at most. To get the most out of what's there, you 
 need an internet connection, and a HUGE game. The game doesn't seem to want to support any more 
 than 16 bots offline, and also leaves some of the maps out of the non-connectionwise roster. 
 
  
  Awesome-O says "Weak".
  
  But even if you CAN get online (which the disgusting Punkbuster program complicates) , the interface 
 is terrible. It seems to be designed by programing 101 students, all of whom have no hands or eyes. 
 Selecting the filter options don't work... at all. If you were to click on "No Full Servers", prepare 
 to be greeted by a glut of filled servers, ect.
  
  And once you finally find a delicious 50-player Blitzkreig, you will want a vehicle, or be prepared 
 to walk for the duration of the entire round (or swim, which makes you wonder if the Army really 
 DOES train its soldiers to doggypaddle under heavy gunship fire... ever so slowly) . And when you 
 finally reach the shore, you will be forced to steel yourself against Jets, Tanks, Machine Gunners, 
 Snipers, and the like. 
  
  I haven't even mentioned the numerous bugs, and crap expansion packs. Is this a good game? Of course. 
 Is it a fantastic game? **** no. If you want a true online experience, go load up Steam and play 
 Team Fortress, or one of 47 other games. Just... don't make it this one.
  
  Once again:
  Awesome-O says "WEAK".
  
  Adieu! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXJGeneration
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 26, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  So the Battlefield franchise continues with the highly acclaimed "Battlefield 2". Now I started 
 playing on battlefield during the days of BFV (Battlefield Vietnam) , and I was impressed with the 
 overall game-play of it. Its a fun game no doubt, however I tend to dislike some aspects.
  
  I guess it starts with the engine itself. Battlefield 2 feels like a system hog of sorts. Your 
 not going to get a great experience from the game unless you have a high-end PC on your desk. I'm 
 just not one of those players, and I've barely been able to play with solid FPS (Frames Per Second) 
 with my Radeon 9700 Pro without having to play on low settings. So it's not my position to comment 
 on the overall graphics of the game. Make sure you at least have a decent mid-range system when 
 you play this game, it will save you the trouble of that ill-timed frame drop while flying your 
 squad via helicopter.
  
  To get into game-play aspects, there are many features that I personally enjoy about the game. 
 EA/DICE made a solid attempt at increasing the overall teamwork in the Battlefield franchise with 
 this game. Most noticeably is the in game squad system which allows players to join a squad which 
 activates the in-game VOIP (Probably the best aspect of a squad for those playing with headsets) . 
 There are also some smaller aspects that aren't worth mentioning but indicate the developers were 
 looking to encourage teamwork. However I feel that the teamwork falls short in this game. The game-play 
 mechanics and the infamous "stat-padding" diminish the incentive of working together in a squad. 
 Overall I feel that the squad system within "vanilla" Battlefield 2 is flawed, however there are 
 a number of modifications that help make better use of it. I'll mention them later if interested.
 
  
  The commander mode is also something a bit new. Its actually a pretty handy feature. Once the 
 round begins players have the opportunity to apply as a commander for their respective team. 
 If one person applies they may very well receive the role of commander, however if multiple players 
 apply several factors play in. Mainly rank for the most. If the commander plays his/her role properly, 
 they can make quite some difference on the battlefield. There are several key assets to the commander's 
 abilities. You have artillery, supply drops, a UAV and satellite scan. The newest feature includes 
 the ability to drop a vehicle on the map. Most of the assets are self-explanatory. The artillery 
 decimates a targeted area with explosive shells for several seconds; the supply drop delivers a 
 crate that resupplies players and vehicles with ammunition and health. The UAV circles a specified 
 area, and reveals all enemies and links up to each individual's mini-map. The scan just scans the 
 entire map, revealing enemies as red dots. The vehicle drop well.. drops an FAV (Fast Attack Vehicle) 
 on the map. Another important thing about the commander is the ability to communicate with your 
 respective squad leaders. You can assign each individual squad an order to attack, defend move 
 and repair. Although during "pub" play you're not going to find too many squad leaders enthusiastic 
 about following the commander's orders.
  
  Anyhow, I happen to think that the game-play mechanics don't allow BF2 to be called a "tactical 
 shooter". In the early days, players constantly "bunny-hopped", "dolphin-dived" and took advantage 
 of numerous other exploits within the game-play mechanics to gain an edge. The ranking system more 
 than likely fueled that need to be competitive regardless if the player needed to use some cheap 
 exploit to do so. Although I see less and less of it now, the game still seems way too fragmented 
 and fast-paced to be called a "tactical shooter". But I must admit, there are some modifications 
 that do quite well in altering the game-play fundamentals into a much more "tactical" experience. 
 One that comes to mind is Project Reality, which can be found at "realitymod. com".
  
  One of the things I do dislike is the ranking system. It may sound pretty cool at first glance, 
 but it doesn't work well with BF2's game-play mechanics in my opinion. I said earlier the ranking 
 system more or less encourages players to play in the most effective style they could. Battlefield 
 2 has it so that the best way to play is as the infamous term of "Rambo". So unless youre playing 
 with some good friends, clan-mates, teammates or some really cooperative players, youre not going 
 to find an abundant use of teamwork on public servers. Another aspect worth noting is the fact 
 that if you don't own Battlefield 2 Special Forces (A BF2 expansion) , you'll be placed at a somewhat 
 disadvantage in terms of firepower. The SF expansion allows veteran players to unlock tier 3 weapons. 
 The tier 3 weapons in the hands of a seasoned player are much more deadly and accurate than the 
 tier 1 and 2 weapons. 
  
  When it comes down to vehicles though, I think playing in a tank or an aircraft has really lost 
 their touches. When playing with a vehicle on 64 player servers it's just constant "BEEP-BEEP-BEEP-BEEEEEP" 
 and some clicking noises that sound like a cash register. Using a tank seems like playing in a 
 deathtrap. This is because using anti-tank weapons has become a lot easier over previous Battlefield 
 games. This whole guidance system almost makes it difficult to avoid being hit by an anti-tank 
 weapon. For whatever reason, choppers seemed to have lost a lot of versatility over past battlefield 
 games. They virtually fly like tanks for the most part, and can withstand a lot of abuse for some 
 reason (You would think that a single tank shell to a chopper would equal kill right?) . Airplanes 
 seem to dominate maps more than they did before. I get killed more by aircraft than tanks or other 
 armored vehicles. And all it takes is a tap on the flares key to save yourself from being killed 
 by an incoming missile.
  
  The value of the game is probably what keeps me from shelving it. There is large modding community 
 for the game. I'm talking total-conversion modifications that change the game visually and game-play 
 wise. My personal favorites belong to Point of Existence & Project Reality. Theres a mod on this 
 game that suits just about anyone's playing style and preferences. This game could last you for 
 the years to come.
  
  I would recommend anyone who enjoys first-person shooters to purchase this game. Even if you dislike 
 the vanilla experience you can always look at the modding community for something different without 
 purchasing a brand new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pman719
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 26, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! I have been playing BF2 (Battlefield 2) for about 3 weeks and it is amazing. 
 Once you purchase the game, you have to download patches that will allow you to play on more servers. 
 The 1.3 patch has just come out. In BF2 you have a constant character that can receive upgrades 
 in weapons and rank, awards, and respect. This constant character system greatly improves gameplay 
 as people will know who they are dealing with. There are 7 kits with which to begin your multiplayer 
 adventure with. Once you are promoted through the ranks, different weapon kits become avalible 
 to you. The maps are large. Their are about 12 maps which you can play on in the original BF2. 
 The different armies in the game are the MEC, Middle Eastern Coalition, PLA, Peoples Liberation 
 Army, and the USMC, United States Marine Corps. The armies have different weapon styles that can 
 play to your attributes. Their are also over 30 vehicles with which to destroy people with. These 
 include transports, armor, helicopters, and airplanes. In a battle different positions are avalible 
 which are Lone Wolf, Squad Member, Squad Leader, and Commander. These groups seperate objectives 
 which are selected by the Commander and help get you awards. I highly reccomend this game to anyone 
 who wants to feel the rush of a modern battle with excellent strategical and FPS style playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewer74
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 26, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  I thought that this game from EA is the best example of what the online shooter is all about. Its 
 fast paced, yet rock solid in every department. Its well balanced with great depth in the amount 
 of classes and the way each diffrent player has to play the game together in order for the team 
 to have any kind of succcess. The gameplay in this manner really lends itself to teamwork and its 
 great to see a multiplayer title using the teamwork insted of heaps of individuals thrown onto 
 a map trying to survive. The vehicals are well moddelled and the graphics are great. The network 
 code is really quite amazing when you think how much is going on at one time and how big the maps 
 are. Its rock solid given you have a good enough connection. The sounds are spot on with all of 
 the planes, trucks and guns really sonding meaty and how they should. The booster packs shouls 
 also give more depth to this title and it ensurses it will remain onw of the most widley played 
 online shooters until the next sequel is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3rev
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 25, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  The first time i played Battlefield 1942 i thought the solo player game was great so when i heard 
 about a balltefield 2 i thought oh yea great multiplayer and great solo player. But man was i wrong 
 the solo player would be good IF IT HAD A STORT LINE. Sure i guess you could make your own story 
 line yea tryed that and that aint going to work out. But anyway some people arnt into solo play 
 anyway so the multiplayer is actually pretty good. The ingame action is fun hey and if your lucky 
 enough you can be commander of your team and just sit on your ass and do nothing and send supplies 
 and troops were u want them to go so thats a really good part of the game. The action is really 
 actually fast and it would have been better if i didnt suck so bad but thats ok. If you loved 1942 
 then you should love this one but if your antisocial and dont want to get online and talk to people 
 and just love games for the offline game stay away from this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happydude0101
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 23, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game 7 classes all fun with their own strategies and guns. The unlock system and 
 awards makes you want to keep playing to get that next rank so you can get that next gun to be 
 more effective on the battlefield. Awards really make you want to try all the different classes 
 and get good at them so you can show off your badges to the world. And the addition of squads greatly 
 encourages teamwork; moving together as a group and covering each others back The game looks great 
 if you can run it. Now for the bad, the game has a huge amount of bugs just to list some- a lot 
 of the time you will be shooting at some one and you will just keep missing even with the sniper 
 rifle you will line it up on someones head and it wont hit, this is extremely frustrating and 
 greatly detracts from the game. Another is the game is horribly laggy, I have a more then required 
 for RAM processor and video card yet there are still horrendous lag spikes which crash servers 
 or mean you cant move for 5-10 seconds. Helicopters seem over powered on some servers people get 
 together and like to camp spawn points wasting whoever spawns there. And finally it has lots of 
 fun crash to desktop bugs during a session of play 1-3 hours I can usually count on it happening. 
 All in all it is a good game plagued by bugs but recent patches have fixed some of them lets hope 
 they will continue to fix them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 23, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Grey smoke...
  Ringing in your ears...
  The distant echo of radio chatter, buzzing, cutting, deepening through the chaos...
  The massive 
 thud and boom of a shell exploding in the distance...
  The frantic cries for a medic, the wounded on the ground...
  
  Welcome to the Battlefield.
 
  
  Melodrama! One should always expect such fine tuned advances to a critique on a game, and Battlefield 
 2 must have every one of these details to truly have one visualize its majestic glory.
  Battlefield 2 is one of those games that just thrives off Surround Sound, so before I begin this 
 lengthy crusade on part of this game, please let me remind you that I was playing the longer length 
 of my experience via Surround Sound hookup.
  
  Disclaimer ending, I guess I can tell you what I've been wanting to say. Battlefield 2 is not only 
 hella fun, but it is also hella tight when it comes to sharp visuals and great sound design. Damn, 
 even the effect of seeing a jet lift off is breathtaking the first time you see it.
  So how does Battlefield 2 deliver this wonderful presentation?
  I could mention the sharp visuals, 
 the clean textures, the very well done disorientation effect, or even that tranquil water-way, 
 with glistening streams and peaceful meadows.
  But to truly experience the best aspects of Battlefield 2, you must turn to the sound department, 
 where it simply shines in pure perfection. Digital Illusions took extreme care to make the sound 
 exact as possible, and to be as heart-poundingly realistic as well.
  
  To put it simply, once you hear that massive roar of a jet rearing for take-off, you'll never doubt 
 Battlefield's sound supremacy. The sharp rat-tat-tat of machine guns, the distant pang of a rifle, 
 and the always supreme roar of a missle flying through the air helps Battlefield 2 give it a true 
 feeling of war and hell. Combine this excellent visual and audio presentation with a gameplay formula 
 that just can't fail, and you have a game that will not only captivate you with its excellent production 
 qualities, but also with the most addictive multiplayer and singleplayer experiences possible.
 
  
  If you've played the equally impressive Battlefield 1942, the gameplay will be instantly familair. 
 As Battlefield 2 is representing the struggle of war, the illusion that you're actually in a grand 
 army is held by a counter called "tickets". As you and your team-mates die and respawn, you lose 
 tickets, but as you kill enemies, they also lose tickets. The tickets are essentially your reinforcements/army. 
 To speed up the process, you can respawn from capture points. 
  The "capture points" are essentially flags put in strategic locations on whichever map you may 
 choose to enjoy. Once one is captured, you can spawn there if it be your wish from the spawn menu. 
 If a all flags are captured by your team, instant victory, if a larger majority of flags is held 
 by your team than the enemy does, they will slowly begin to lose tickets.
  
  If tickets a team's reach zero, that team loses.
  
  But of course, one needs to explain the 
 "spawn menu". Not only can you select where you wish to spawn on Battlefield 2's large maps, but 
 you can also choose your combat class, ranging from Special Ops (which carries a combination sniper 
 rifle/automatic weapon) Assault (the basic class with a rifle and grenade launcher) to anti-tank 
 (which carries the gonzo bazookas you used to explode enemy armor) . Along with that, you can join 
 or assign squads, which is essential to winning a game, as one can spawn near the squad leader, 
 or give out commands when one is the squad leader.
  
  I mentioned armor right? Mentioning armor, I could also mention some of the several other vehicles. 
 At your disposal are the beastly mammoth tanks, to speedy and light-weight buggies, and even helicopters 
 and jets. The controls for each vehicle are very different, and after awhile you learn the differences 
 between each, making you a much more intelligent player when it comes to certain circumstances.
 
  Along with the rush of vehicles and several character classes running around, you will also need 
 to be certain to send orders and important requests to your team-mates and commander. You can call 
 in artillery support, reinforcements, or even a vehicle pickup. And considering the rather intelligent 
 bots which actually listen to your requests, those people who wish to enjoy singeplayer rather 
 than the extravegant multiplayer can also get a helping hand from the somewhat wisened bots.
  
  Although Battlefield 2 is a masterpiece, it also has its flaws. These could include the fact 
 that you cannot change the settings for singeplayer games. They are always fixed on the same basic 
 settings, and considering that the bots have some very well done AI, it would've been nice to see 
 some different varying factors in the battle than the common assigned by the PC. 
  Building from that, Battlefield 2 also has a quite small repetoire of maps, singeplayer only holds 
 ten or so, while multiplayers only ranges up to 14. This is extremely dissapointing considering 
 how well these maps have been designed. You'd think that if the developers were capable of maps 
 this good, they would ship a few more, making this jewel even better than it already is.
  
  But despite its shortcomings, Battlefield 2 is a must have game for any casual, hardcore, or even 
 beggining gamer. If you enjoy action games, or anything that will give you a heart-pumping experience, 
 Battlefield 2 will only make you love it more, as no one can resists its addictive charms.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psycho8x8
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and long lasting! its not like unreal or quake or something.... lemme give 
 you an example *person playing quake* "heh heh heh i am gonna go play quake!! ohhh look a nearly 
 full game! TIME TO JOIN!" *games lasts 100000000000000 hours* "WOW!!!! THAT WAS FUN!!!........ 
 boy.... too bad i wasted all my time and didn't gain anything... btw shouldn't i be dead? i haven't 
 eaten for 1000000000 hours or so,,," *guy playing Battlefield 2* "oh look a nearly full game! TIME 
 TO JOIN!!!!" *game lasts 9999999999999 hours* "BOY THAT WAS FUN!!!! AND I ALSO GOT  
 RANK UPS!!! W00T!!! I SURE AM GLAD I AM NOT PLAY QUAKE AND WASTING ALL MY TIME!!!!
  uhhh get my point? right..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuicideCivilian
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This game ( Battlefield 2) deserves alot of credit, almost perfect.
  
  I love the startegic first person gameplay with sqauds.
  
  Verbal communication options.
 
  
  Land, water, and air fights.
  
  Varitey of wepons, vehicles, and some upgrades.
  
  Ranked servers.
  
  And overall just a kick ass game.
  
  Does take time to get used to jets, 
 and helicopter.
  
  Alot of people to help you out.
  
  Go flying a jet, cruizing in a boat, roaring in a tank, or on foot.
  
  Lots of objectives; 
 capturing flags, killign the enemy, kill assists, destroying enemy equipment.
  
  Varitey of fun maps (takes for ever to move on foot)
  
  Realistic war with modern day weponry 
 and armies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masta_Pimp
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a great game I love the graphics they are so awesome, the sound is also great. 
 All very real The trucks & the tanks all look very good. Though I wish it would start you off 
 with more ammo, & I dont like that it takes 2 head shots to kill someone. But the online play 
 makes-up for that, the online games are by far the best part of the game. If you like war games 
 but have not yet tried this game, you need too, I think youll love it, like I do. I give it a 
 9.3 
  
  Have Fun Playing
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Australia-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 9, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  Once I got this game, I found out something about it, IT WAS THE BEST GAME IN THE WORLD. Seriously, 
 though, The entire thing is non-linear and open, you can have 64 online people on a battlefield 
 which is amazing, you can even pick your own class such as support, assault, etc. You can even 
 create your own squad and name it yourself, in this game anything is possible, even when you pick 
 it up, you can just pick off a guy right away, its so balanced that even noobs can kill a long-time 
 player if theyre even a little bit lucky. But, it does have its one flaw, you need a huge, massively 
 jacked-up computer to play it, it costed me 300$ worth of upgrades, but it was worth it, if you 
 have online, and a very good computer that can support this, GET THIS GAME NOW, but be aware of 
 the system requirements.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brodigity
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2006 4:00 am PT
Review:  i was once trapped in the world of counter strike, not any more. this game throws into the middle 
 of real time combat. the graphics rock, the gameplay and controls are solid, and you get to drive 
 a tank. what better than running over your enemies and difibulating your allies. the use of tactics 
 and the comunacation amongst your team is much more crucial than just running out and hoping someone 
 doesnt land one across your dome. the only thing i can find wrong with this game is there needs 
 to be alot more people playing, so if you love first person shooters that look like the real thing 
 pick this up. now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bf2gamerz22
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 20, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  This is an action packed game for anyone who loves a really emmersed FPS. When the Artillery rains 
 down you get chills down ur back, when you under heavy fires the adrenaline kicks in, and when 
 your with a great group of lies you get a feeling of well being and invincibility.
  The fact that you can grow ranks and that rank provides new weapons is ingenious, and gives u a 
 reason to play, and the fact that growing each rank improves ur chances of being a commander, a 
 fine position, really makes this game a good buy for a good computer holder.
  
  And that is where my only let down starts. The Cost of money AND the toll it takes to run it.
 
  
  My computer, being an average joe can only run on medium low graphix. But dont let that discourage 
 you because the game still looks great on my computer. The problem though, is that the game can 
 randomly, and i mean randomly, lock up - in game and not in game -
  
  This posses problems because I have had to numerously turn of my computer, the bad way (holding 
 in the on button til the machine turns off) .
  
  And to wrap things up, it was worth the buy and the few problems i have do not hinder the great 
 Graphix, Sound, Gameplay, and all that a person who does not own the game, misses out on each day. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stomachjuice
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 20, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is the next sequel to the highly acclaimed Battlefield series. It pits you, the player, 
 as a soldier in one of three armies - the United States Marine Corps, the (fictional) Middle Eastern 
 Coalition or the People's Liberation Army (China) - in a modern warfare environment.
  
  Battlefield 2 has excellent graphics. Perhaps not photorealistic, but certainly suitable for a 
 game of its nature and a pleasure to look at. Any decent system will be able to run the game looking 
 well and the excellent PC's out there will have a beautiful amount of eye-candy that makes the 
 worlds look so much more detailed, yet entirely believable and immersing. Perhaps the only downside 
 to the graphics is that those running on lower-end systems will experience some notable lag in 
 large 64 player maps, even on lowest settings. BF2 does a good job of scaling down the graphics 
 and smaller maps will run without a hitch but there's just a bit too much going on for it to run 
 flawlessly in the larger games.
  
  BF2s gameplay experience really depends on what server you are playing on. Because of the addition 
 of static profiles, many servers will have players who participate in certain activities purely 
 for the benefit of their player statistics and often this degrades from the experience. On a server 
 where pretty much everything is going well, and players are communicating and working for team 
 objectives, BF2s gameplay surpasses any other multiplayer game out there. With the addition of 
 the squad system and team commanders, players can receive benefits that can alter the tide of the 
 entire game and make it that much more enjoyable. There is nothing quite like storming a capture 
 point with your squad, with artillery raining down around your head, engaging the enemy while dodging 
 a tank battle and coming out on top. However, if you're trying to capture a flag with an unhelpful 
 team more focused on spawn camping or stat-padding, put simply, it will suck.
  
  Battlefield 2's sound is of a good quality. When sound detail is turned up and you can experience 
 the full EAX experience, it works to immerse you that much further. The radio chatter for each 
 different team is suitably diverse and although most will not understand what is being said on 
 the MEC or PLA teams audibly, it does allow you to differentiate between what team a player is 
 on when you can hear him talking from around a corner. Battlefield 2 on low sound quality is still 
 of a good standard, however many environmental effects and distant sounds will not be heard which 
 can alter your perception of your surroundings.
  
  The maps included are of a high quality. While a few more maps would have been desirable, there 
 are still plenty to keep you occupied for hundreds of hours. As every game turns out differently, 
 there is so much variety that you wont really be bothered by this.
  
  The different classes of player are perfect for balance. The game offers a kit to suit a specific 
 purpose and pretty much everything is covered. A tank wiping out your team at a flag? No problem, 
 respawn as an Anti-Tank. Your squad running out of ammunition over a particularly long hike? No 
 worries, respawn as Support to resupply them. Lots of critically wounded soldiers critical to the 
 defence of a flag? Best spawn as medic so you can revive them before control is lost.
  
  BF2 also has some annoying aspects which may deter you from playing it, too. First and foremost: 
 you must have a broadband connection. While the game is playable on 56k, there will be so much 
 lag and so little bullets hitting that the gameplay will be horrible.
  
  The hit detection system could also be improved. In almost every infantry game, you will empty 
 a clip at someone only to find that they have taken little to no damage, yet your crosshairs were 
 clearly aimed on them. In some cases, unfortunately more frequently than not, you will actually 
 see their model cringe and perform the animations of being hit, when they've actually taken no 
 damage at all. It's a very irritating aspect that's probably the worst part of the game and detracts 
 most from the multiplayer experience.
  
  The game also suffers from some severe glitches and a couple of imbalances, although the most annoying 
 have been remedied in recent patches. There are still problems that will occur on occasion and 
 if you are of a short temper, will make you somewhat angry.
  
  Battlefield 2 has a relatively long learning curve to master. While you may grasp infantry battle 
 quickly, it will take several hours of practice to become a decent pilot or driver, as well as 
 to become accustomed to the several different kits.
  
  In summary, Battlefield 2 is an excellent multiplayer game thats pros certainly outweigh its cons 
 and is definitely worth the money spent on it -- but there are some unavoidable aspects that will 
 detract from the otherwise brilliant experience.
  
  Superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackblade853
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 19, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  good game but single player lacks would of been cool if they had a story line and can beat down 
 guys with ur gun not only that but a few bugs in the multiplayer other then that and the occasional 
 hacker the game is pretty good just takes some time to get used to flying and wut not kinda like 
 RL so dont go whinning that its too hard to fly a chopper or jet u dun get in a cockpit and learn 
 right away
  
  so all in all great graphics if u have the graphics card great sound and always fun if u have a 
 mic and get in a squad with a bunch of other guys with mics cuz its more tactical and makes it 
 10 times funner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neonvzla
Rating: 8
Date: May 18, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Good game and great idea but awful community. Could use a lot of heavy modding since it has way 
 too many hackers for my liking. 
  
  On the other hand, it has great graphics and decent gameplay, lives up to the BattleField series. 
 The unlocking and reward system makes it worthwhile and gives the sensation that you are actually 
 achieving (or trying to, at least) to achieve something.
  
  A few bugs still remain like team mates name displaying ass red which leads to unfortunate teamkillings, 
 unless you are very close and see the model, which is hard since one plays this game with a "shoot 
 first, ask question later" attitude. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlb81
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  If you like playing with modern weapons and vehicles, you should get this game. If you like team 
 strategy and first person gaming, you should get this game. The game is awesome. There are so many 
 different strategic elements, you will get dizzy and excited just picking which one to implement. 
 Also you get badges and awards. I know it means nothing to my character, but i'm a badge and ribbon 
 whore. 
  The only problem i have with this game, is you have to get online to fully enjoy it. There is no 
 campaign to play as a single player. There is only a default character you can log on offline and 
 play the small maps. All the rest has to be accessed online. Boo hiss. Other than that, has to 
 be one of the best games for the first person genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandojones
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is very addicting and fun. I already got 3 of my friends hooked on it and then they bought 
 it!!!! The rank system is a great feature. If you don't have it yet get it!!!!!!!! or wait for 
 Battlefield 2142. GET IT or you will regret it!!!! !!!!!!! !!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!! 
 !!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!! !!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!! !!!!
  !!!! !!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!! !!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! 
  !!!!!!!! 
 !!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!! 
 !!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspking111
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 17, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE THE GAME BUT MY PC IS BARLY RUNNING MEDIUM SETTINGS I WISH THE GAME DIDN'T NEED SO MUCH 
 FIRE POWER TO RUNN IT.
  other then that its a very very very very very very very very solid FPS its unique not the usual 
 type of fps u need alot of thinkin involved with this shooter instaed of you running around like 
 an idiot, shooting nothing. You need to keep spawn points and take all of them and then walla u 
 win its a very actionetic game. There is a very very very easy learning curve i got use to it in 
 5 min. and the difficulty can range. Online is the best its pretty cool when u find glitches in 
 the game and if u think u want to download it dont i have a freind that did and he couldnt play 
 online and first person can get boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhatSeeJay
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 17, 2006 1:15 am PT
Review:  I was never really found of the Battlefield series at the beginning since it felt more like a Counterstrike 
 with flags.
  But I got more around to it with Battlefield Vietnam by adding helicopters and the brilliant addition 
 of music playing from the vehicles.
  
  So why do I find it great?
  Well at starters the squad system gives a huge addition to the teamplay.
  With the ability to 
 spawn at your squadleader makes the teamwork even greater, read something that they are going to 
 remove that though wich will probably make me lose interest greatly.
  
  Secondly, the graphics are great, to see a soldier stand next to you blinking and then run in a 
 rain of bombs getting thrown up into the air in raggdoll physics. A bit of a bummer that the high 
 requirements for the graphics makes even a year old computer sweat.
  
  And the sound is brilliant, all sounds fits like the hand in a glove and you can really get a feeling 
 of terror lying in a bush listening to a APC firing next to you while a Blackhawk hovers above 
 searching for you.
  
  And to the last the ranking system is a wicked addition to the winning concept, to get decorated 
 for pulling off amazing tricks in the game makes the playing worthwhile.
  
  All in all, this game cant get mutch better.. except for the bugs in the multiplayer menu, the 
 way to long loadingtime, and the pure frustration with the glitches in the patchings.
  
  I bought it at release and are still playing it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jawsman02
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games i have ever played. I have played this game for like 60 hours 
 and i still am not bored with it. The constant action in the game will keep you occupied and never 
 bored when you play a game. EA is always making updates that make the game so much better. There 
 are not that many different classes but you can unlock so many more weapons. The maps are huge 
 and they have such great detail. This game is with a doubt the best game you can buy for the PC 
 and i recommend you getting it right now if you don't have it already 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOCOM_GHOST_REC
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  This is da best computer game ever made i have played it 4 PS2 but for PC its way better. i like 
 dis game b-cuz of its graphics it can sometimes lag alot but other than that it is the most perfect 
 game for PC ever. it has a good singleplayer mode b-cuz in singleplayer it is just as hard as playing 
 online which is pretty hard if u are a newbie. i dislike the sniping in this game, sometimes if 
 u hit some 1 once it wont kill them like 4 ps2 it takes like 3 times in the leg on singleplayer 
 and online. THIS IS THE BEST PC GAME EVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FECCheese
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 14, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  ON christmas day 2005 I opend a DVD case wraped in green wraping paper, and to my delight It was 
 Battlefield 2. I Imeditealty fired up my PC and installed it. After creating a profile I was launched 
 into a 16 player match on the briliant Gulf Of Oman. After brezing through the basics I was online 
 in no time. It was the greatest experiance in my life play with other players from around the world 
 working together as the Chinese, Iraqie and US forces to topple the other team. no Other game has 
 brought people together like BF2.
  
  The only down fall i can see in BF2 is the ranking system. Its extremely flawed, i was exited about 
 it after reading the previews on gamespot, but when it comes down to it, they realy serve no perpose. 
 But never the less Battlefield 2 is a game that will go down in history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thatdot6
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 13, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  The "Battlefield" has all been excellent. But how do you make an excellent game even better. Ask 
 the creators, because yet again, they have managed to make by far the best game out of the "Battlefield" 
 series.
  
  The gameplay is surperb. We I first loaded it on my computer, I felt so into the action. Even more 
 so than its Battlefield 1942 and Battlefield Vietnam. Gun fire is gotten more realistic. Now it 
 is a bit harder to shoot a person than Battlefield 1942 (which had a dot in the middle of a non-recoiling 
 crosshair) . Now it takes some level of skill to be able to kill someone. The crosshair is now varied 
 by the recoil and no noob-dot in the centre of the crosshair. The kits are all equally as good, 
 each kit have some weakness. For example, Assualt can effienciently kill infantary at close-medium 
 range, but when it comes to vehicles and snipers. They are sitting ducks waiting to get shot. The 
 games has gotten more relliant on teamwork, which is the whole point of the game.
  
  The graphics is so crystal clear. The textures look so real. Even on low graphics. For example, 
 the grass isn't this carpet of green. When you prone, you actually have blades of grass popping 
 up from the ground. I find this a big step from other FPS I have played. The soldiers look very 
 realistic. They don't have melted plastic faces anymore, but they have proper, humaniod faces and 
 there bodies aren't all square-ish.
  
  The sound effects are amazing. Once again, they are a lot more realistic. If you are standing next 
 to a tank firing an shell or near something exploding, you can expect a brief period of deafness. 
 VoIP also is a great tool in this game. It is nearly a lifeline in Battlefield 2 online. People 
 get so into the game and start talking like a real squad. The sound totally submerges you into 
 a battlefield atmosphere.
  
  In conclusion, Battlefield 2 is a great game to add to your collection of multiplayer games. Next 
 time someone comes to your home, break out Battlefield 2 and get hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jack_the_jackal
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I played both of the earlier incarnations of the Battlefield series, though not for long. BF 1642 
 simply got sorrounded by all the other WW2 FPS games, BF Vietnam really got me down as tanks were 
 simply impossible to around in because of the terrain and all aircraft were notoriously difficult 
 to control. Battlefield 2 (BF2) remedied a lot of this as modern warfare games are rather scarce, 
 and also BF2 has a broad array of landscapes to fight in. Wheter your vice is urban combat, canyon 
 crawling or assault over open plains, BF got it for you. Contrary to BF Vietnam, all the aircraft 
 have been revised and made much more newbie-friendly. This does not mean though, that the helicopters 
 are flying gun-fortresses as they mainly have cardboard armour, and are rather heavy in flight. 
 the score system should be familiar to all players of the previous battlefield games but an important 
 difference is that when you play on the ranked servers the game keeps track of your accumulated 
 score. when enough points are accumulated you will gain a higher rank. this has the dual benefit 
 of allowing you to unlock a new weapon for one of your kits, and gives you preceedence over lower 
 ranking people when applying to be commander of your team. The commander is a vitally important 
 part of each team as he can use artillery strikes, supply crates, sattelite scans that reveal all 
 enemies to him, and a UAV scout drone, giving a radar on the map in an area around it. Also the 
 commander is able to give orders to squads that people form allowing him to create bette tactics 
 for his team. Another added benefit of being in a squad is that you can use your squadleader as 
 a mobile spawnpoint. Sadly few people use the squad function, wich takes part of the gratness awawy 
 from the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fution2
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  Had this game since christmas and thought i would write up a quick review on it. Ive never been 
 a big FPS fan, didn't bother with Halo , or Unreal tournament, did branch out to Call of Duty abit 
 back. Yes you are right in thinking that im totally crap at FPS games, but enough about my misfortunes. 
 I have to say after only playing the demo of this, i was instantly hooked, like i said im not really 
 a big fan of FPS games. Bf2 has alot to offer, lots of single player maps, same with the Multiplayer 
 maps, and a vast range of online servers to play on. There are also many kits to play as like, 
 Engineer, Sniper, Medic, Special forces and many more. The wide range of vehicles is cool to, diffrent 
 planes, choppers, cars, tanks, apcs, boats, also a good few mounted weapons to, like AA, or TOW. 
 The graphics are gorgeus ( i did try it with everything on full, looks fantastic, although i was 
 getting a slide show hehe) . I think in all there is round about 5-6 thousand servers to choose 
 from (don't quote me on that ) , all ranging from 16 ppl servers to 64 ppl servers. If your looking 
 for a great FPS , this is definetly worth checking out. My only fault with BF2 is the online servers, 
 sometimes you get a few individuals who act like morons (team-killing and generally being idiotic) , 
 but then you do get this on any online games. Just best to try a good few servers then once you 
 find a decent one stick to them. The game itself though is great fun to play, even if your not 
 that big on FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DocPain
Rating: 4
Date: May 11, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I love Battlefront and thought i would give this a try. I found it boring and wished i never bought 
 it. I thought i would never find a video game i didn't like (beside the very ancient ET game) . 
 I hope it is still worth something used. 
  Takes a long time to find people and kill them for my taste. Not enough action. 
  Took a while 
 to perfect the video setting, but once it was done it looked good and ran smoothly most of the 
 time. I had a few lockups.
  I never got the hang of flying, which might have been part of my problem, but even as a gunner 
 while another was piloting was worthless.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hg199
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 8, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  
  What a fantastic mass multiplayer game. This traditional capture the flag style game has all the 
 qualities to get a perfect 10. However, I feel the 'environment' to which you play in could be 
 improved.. to make you feel like your 'there'. I feel it should allow for building to fall down 
 etc..
  
  I look forward to their future realease of the 'future battlefield'. It is such a perfect setup 
 they have going into the next game. I just hope they pull it off with the environment and gameplay.
 
  
  Imagine 'hovering' your helicopter in the next game, with bridges and building falling down.. a 
 few civillians running for their lives.. and instead of capturing the flag.. tone the 'flag' business 
 down and focus it on.. hold the railway, hold the government building... hold the left bank. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goat5000
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 8, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  From player rankings and persistant stats, to special commander-only abilities, this is the modern 
 combat game you have been waiting for. 
  
  Nearly every complaint about the Battlefield series has been delt with here. It is more realistic, 
 faster paced, without overpowered kits. Every kit from the medic to the sniper to the front-line 
 assault has been balanced evenly. Forget rock-paper-scissors, when it comes to infantry it's strategy 
 and tactics that win the day. 
  
  The dominance of vehicles is better this time around, but the infantry is still limited by it's 
 lack of anti-aircraft weaponry. Static placements are routinely bombed in opening manouvers which 
 leaves only friendly aircraft for your defense. 
  
  Commander-only abilities such as Artillery, Radar in the form of Unattendended Air Vehicles, and 
 supply drops add a unique touch to the commanders position without being overpowered. Artillery 
 can quickly decimate closely packed enemy infantry, but it is short lived and more often than not 
 takes out the commanders military force as well. 
  
  Levels load a bit too slowly for my taste. Granted my machine is hardly high end, but I have heard 
 the complaint even from those who do have gaming machines. 
  
  It seems that the community gets better with every release of the Battlefield series. Most of the 
 abusive and immature people have already been banned from most every server due to excessive team 
 killing or simply lost interest. The good news is that leet speak is getting rarer, the bad news 
 is that leet speaking newbs made good target practice and now they are disappearing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lasertoffe
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 8, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  I haven't gone online with this game yet, I guess it's just to fast pace for me there. 
  
  But... I have played it alot on coop with my friends (if you start a single player game they may 
 join on IP) . And I really, really liked it!
  
  The atmosphere is great! The balance between arcade and tactical gameplay is good also, even if 
 I feel that they could have made it a bit easier to die. One bullet and then your gone is a good 
 principle to make players play more tactical, careful and realistic. But then again.. this is a 
 mainstream action game and it is a great one!
  
  The sounds and graphical effects really makes you feel in the middle of it. When bullets smacks 
 into the walls beside you, and when your ears and eyes are blurred by a big blast it really puts 
 you right in there.
  
  The AI is tough, especially on the hardest level.
  
  The vehicles feels a bit plastic but they're ok. When you see a tank you run! 
  
  I really 
 recommend this game! Even to people like myself who is more into more realistic and tactical shooters. 
 The gameplay is intense! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VoltureX
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  The best FPS for sure. And for WWII fans I know Forgotten Hope 2 is in progress :D I have been 
 playing this game in clan and it has a good grade of competition. Even when just playing for fun 
 over WAN you will get a good experience. Must say that the AI is too bad so don't buy it if you 
 do not have an internet connection there are lots of other good titles outthere which have gone 
 in depth with AI. You need a good computer for best performance but when all set to high you will 
 get gfx you have never seen before. The atmosphere by sound and dust is incredible too. A must 
 have game if you have an internet connection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTBHEFLIN
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 7, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Having been a professional soldier for over 20 years, I really thought that these kind of games, 
 were sort of, well childish. Well I played, and kiddies it ain't for you! Frankly this as close to 
 combat sims as they use in the services, in some cases better. I was somewhat shocked at the realistic 
 reactions of the casualties, especially the ones slowly sinking into shock and oblivion. Facial expressions 
 were to real.
  I don't recommed this game to anyone that suffers from PTDS (Post traumatic delayed stress syndrome) , It's 
 just to real.
  However for young soldiers, wanna-bes, or old farts like me, it will teach to keep your knot down, and 
 keep your head on a swivel.
  I very highly recommend this game to a group of people to can play as a team. I also very highly 
 recommend this to any service to teach small unit actions and coordination on a realist battle 
 field.
  My playing experience is about 8 hrs, and I have notice a lot of people like to play with the high 
 speed -low drag stuff, (tanks, favs, etc) . My advice is to stay on the ground and root out the enemy, you 
 get a better apprecation for all the high speed, high G stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi098
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 6, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  Great Game!!!
  
  Deffinatly one of the best games i'v seen so far and i'v seen some belive me!!
  
  Personaly 
 i prefer CS: S, but this game comes in VERY close!!
  
  To be the winning team on this game beeing pro won't cut it, but it will help.
  To win you will 
 need STRATEGY and TEAM PLAY. The tanks and aircrafts will own any single player but if you play 
 as a team you stand a good chance to win. Moreover unlike other military connected games here you 
 get a realy good feal of the field and runing in a HUGE map.
  
  When you can hear the jet of a f-18 12 meters above you and you see that enemy helicopter or couple 
 of tanks getting close you feel your adrenalin pump up, thats what the game is all about.
  
  The so real like graphics make u feel like you realy are in combat, and the sound are so real 
 that u can practicly feel the wind in your hair after a fighter plane flyes by.
  
  Wether your a pilot or a secondary pilot in a plane or a helicopter you will have something to 
 do, somewere to go, someone to kill.
  
  All in all:
  Great Graphics+Great Sound+Great Phisics=SUPER GREAT FUN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tankertodd
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 5, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  For some reason my Battlefield2 quit working. I stopped playing it for a few months and when I 
 came back to it, it would not run. I found the Support website, that features a method to describe 
 your problem and upload a text file from Directx. I received a prompt response, within about a 
 day. We went back and forth until we resolved the problem. Despite having to uninstall and reinstall 
 the game, I'm very glad the situation could be resolved. Indeed, given the registry issues, I would 
 not have likely solved this on my own!
  As for the game, it remains compelling and lots of fun. You can choose to chase badges and medals, 
 or accrue time in certain classes. Or you can build commander time or just have fun. They also 
 recently added more ranks. My only complaint is that you have to play this game for an extremely 
 long time to receive ranks or certain medals. The obvious upside to making this challenging is 
 that when you see high-ranking players, you know they got some serious experience. That makes it 
 all the more fun when you sneak behind them with your knife... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 5, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  Your pulse is pounding at a mile a minute. All around you, artillery shells send dust and debris 
 flying into the sky. You see a man lying on the ground in severe pain, so you get out of prone 
 position to help him. Crossing the street to reach the wounded soldier, you are bombarded by tank 
 fire. The force of the bullets exploding nearby causes your vision to blur and your ears to pound. 
 You leap on the ground and give the soldier a medpack just in time to witness a grenade landing 
 at your feet. Your life will be over in three seconds.
  
  DICE has hit the nail on the head with Battlefield 2, the latest game in the Battlefield series. 
 Every moment served online is a moment filled with raw fear and courage. For the first time in 
 history, an online game has been created which puts teamwork over every-man-for-themself and tactics 
 over running and gunning, and it couldn't be better.
  
  One aspect of the title that seriously contributes to the feeling that you are experiencing a war-torn 
 environment is the presentation. Both the graphics and sound are key contributors in elevating 
 the gameplay.
  
  While the overall graphics and texturing leave something to be desired, the visual effects are 
 superb. When an explosion occurs, the blurring screen and smoke effects create a sensation of horror 
 while you scramble for the nearest object to take cover behind. And while the graphics aren't all 
 that, there is something to be said for a good view distance and a relatively low ping, even on 
 64 player servers. One thing that should be noted is that it will take a higher end PC to play 
 this game correctly, and by that I mean at high settings
  
  The audio is even more impressive. The string score played while loading a map helps to heighten 
 the tensity as you wait to physically enter the game, while the booming orchestral portions glorify 
 your wins after the smoke has cleared.
  
  Right from the first boot-up, I was pulled in by a captivating opening cutscene with equally captivating 
 music. This opening cutscene showcased many of the different options available for use by the player 
 in battle and was quite cool. Unforutantely, my emotions shifted considerably when I decided to 
 skip multiplayer action at first to learn the controls through single player. After tweaking all 
 my graphical/keyboard options, I jumped into a single player map. When I landed, I met perhaps 
 the most stupid artificial intelligence yet known to man. The computer characters seemed hell bent 
 on charging towards me from a mile away with nothing but a knife, and they would sometimes stand 
 directly in front of me while staring blankly at my loaded automatic.
  
  So, after a botched attempt at learning the game's fairly complex controls through the atrocious 
 single player, multiplayer was the only thing that could save my 50 dollar purchase (and thankfully, 
 the reason I bought the game in the first place) . I must say that some issues immediately confronted 
 me. For one, the bane of online PC gaming, Gamespy Arcade, made finding a good server more of a 
 hassle than it really needs to be. Also, loading said server took a fair bit longer than I had 
 originally expected. But what happened next was worth any amount of waiting in the world.
  
  This game utilizes a unique squad system, which, when combined with headset support right out 
 of the gate, leads to outstanding teamwork and coordination, even within a 32 member party. Basically, 
 one person is elected the commander position for a side, and he controls both the tactics and the 
 artillery drops/supply drops (yes both of these events actual occur) . The commander can only speak 
 directly to the squad leaders (people who front each 6 man squad) , while the squad leader can only 
 talk to the commander and to the members within his squad. The squad members may only talk amongst 
 other members of the squad. This chain of command is the best way to coordinate attacks and complete 
 objectives. The amount of tactics that can be utilized within a squad or even outside of a squad 
 is quite staggering given the immense size of the maps.
  
  And it won't be hard to assign yourself a personal goal either. There are a handful of different 
 classes to become. These classes range from the standard assault class to the ultra fun medic class. 
 The classes are well balanced, and each one is helpful in its own way. Running low on ammo? Call 
 for a support man. Tank mucking things up for a group of trapped soldiers? Call for an Anti-Tank 
 or Special Ops unit.
  
  As previously mentioned, the game supports up to 64 players online and runs smoothly. I did not 
 experience much lag, and when I did it did not affect gameplay greatly. The realistic weapons, 
 combined with smooth animation and a good physics engine, make each experience different from the 
 last.
  
  Extensive is another good word for the game, and can be applied to...
  - the Ranking System
  - the Vehicle Selection (humvees, tanks, planes, helicopters, boats)
 
  - the Weapon Selection
  - the Number of Players Online
  - the Mod Community
  - the Replay Value
  - the Hours Lost Playing this Game
  
  So if you have a computer system 
 powerful enough to tackle the beastly requirements of Battlefield 2 and have a place in your heart 
 for online gaming, you owe it to yourself to experience the game that thrusts you as close to actual 
 war as physically possible, without crossing the line.
  
  -AcydRaine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fender2004
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 5, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  that is the only drawback to this game is the only mode u can play is conquest... and u havnt experienced 
 the full game until uve hooked up ur VoiP (voice over internet protocol) . the global rankings dont 
 have any bugs it keeps track of everything perfectly and it updates fairly often. another thing 
 is that the rankings are real and in order.... so r the weapons. collecting ribbons and medals are 
 fun, so are badges but when u get up there in the ranks i think at like gunnery seargent is when 
 ur gunna need those basic badges.. when u first get this dl the patches if u want any servers to 
 show cause ever1 updates like on the day the patch comes out. overall this game rules! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raiden_976
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 4, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2, wow. The game of Battlefield is amazing. Why? You can play in over twelve different 
 maps and you are able to drive multiple vehicles, fly mutliple Helicopters and planes and also 
 drive boats! This game is purely a huge achievement and is clearly one of the best PC games of 
 2005.
  
  The gameplay in Battlefield is extremely addicting. The fast-pace gameplay can be loads of fun. 
 when your game starts, you can choose to whether move out on foot or choose a vehicle such as a 
 M1A2 abrams tank. You can have a buddy hop in as the gunner on top using the 50cal. Or you can 
 choose to hop in a Humvee and have three other buddys hop in the car with you. There is alot of 
 things you can do in this game that you cannot do in other games. There are some flaws though in 
 this game.
  
  The major flaw is how this game is practically multiplayer oriented only. There is no campaign 
 in which the single player has a story-mode. Instead, the single player mode is just a skirmish 
 match playing against bots. With this flaw and dissapointing thing, the games value drops down 
 a little bit. However . . .
  
  The Multiplayer mode is absolutely amazing. You can play up to 64 people in a match, yes, 64 people. 
 There are hundreds and even thousands of different servers in which you can join. Whether you want 
 to play with only 16 people, or with only 32 people instead of 64, you can do it. In multiplayer, 
 you have the ability to search for ranked matches or unranked matches.
  
  When you play ranked matches, you get points and the points get added to your score. You start 
 out as a Private and you have to slower work your rank up all the way up to a General which nobody 
 has yet to do since there is so much to do. There are hundreds of medals and ribbons and badges 
 you can get. Ex, if you use your rifle alot, you can get the 'Basic Rifleman badge' and the better 
 and more you use it, you move on to verteran and then expert Rifleman. The ranking system is superb 
 and probably the best I've seen besides Halo 2.
  
  When you rank up in Multiplayer, you can unlock special and powerful weapons. Such as if you rank 
 up to Corporal, you get one unlock. You can use this unlock to unlock a weapon of your choice. 
 As you rank up and get promoted, you get another unlock.
  
  This game features a commander/squad system which works out very well in gameplay. One of the players 
 on your team, usually the most skilled and highest ranked person will be the commander. The commander 
 will drop supplies around the map allowing his teammates to refit and supply. The commander can 
 also order air strikes across the map which comes in handy almost all the time. The most used feature 
 the commander can do is call in a UAV which circles around a area in which you order it and it 
 locates and puts enemies in your radar. If you are not a commander, you can be a squad leader or 
 squad member. The squad leader can tell the members of the squad to attack a specific position. 
 Also, the squad members can spawn at the squad leaders position if they die.
  
  Something else adds to the replay value, modding. The community has added lots and lots of new 
 features and maps to the game.
  
  The graphics in this game is superb also if you run it on all high settings, the game will run 
 beautifully and the environment and cities will look very nice. The detail in the characters and 
 weapons and even vehicles are very good.
  
  The sound is exceptionally good. All the weapons and vehicles sound very athentic. The helicopters 
 and planes sound very well too. There are lots of voice commands that you will end up using alot 
 by pressing the 'Q' button and holding it and then using your mouse to choose which one.
  
  Overall, this game is amazing and if you are into PC shooters, this game should be in your collection 
 without a doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 3, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2, wow. The game of Battlefield is amazing. Why? You can play in over twelve different 
 maps and you are able to drive multiple vehicles, fly mutliple Helicopters and planes and also 
 drive boats! This game is purely a huge achievement and is clearly one of the best PC games of 
 2005.
  
  The gameplay in Battlefield is extremely addicting. The fast-pace gameplay can be loads of fun. 
 when your game starts, you can choose to whether move out on foot or choose a vehicle such as a 
 M1A2 abrams tank. You can have a buddy hop in as the gunner on top using the 50cal. Or you can 
 choose to hop in a Humvee and have three other buddys hop in the car with you. There is alot of 
 things you can do in this game that you cannot do in other games. There are some flaws though in 
 this game.
  
  The major flaw is how this game is practically multiplayer oriented only. There is no campaign 
 in which the single player has a story-mode. Instead, the single player mode is just a skirmish 
 match playing against bots. With this flaw and dissapointing thing, the games value drops down 
 a little bit. However . . .
  
  The Multiplayer mode is absolutely amazing. You can play up to 64 people in a match, yes, 64 people. 
 There are hundreds and even thousands of different servers in which you can join. Whether you want 
 to play with only 16 people, or with only 32 people instead of 64, you can do it. In multiplayer, 
 you have the ability to search for ranked matches or unranked matches.
  
  When you play ranked matches, you get points and the points get added to your score. You start 
 out as a Private and you have to slower work your rank up all the way up to a General which nobody 
 has yet to do since there is so much to do. There are hundreds of medals and ribbons and badges 
 you can get. Ex, if you use your rifle alot, you can get the 'Basic Rifleman badge' and the better 
 and more you use it, you move on to verteran and then expert Rifleman. The ranking system is superb 
 and probably the best I've seen besides Halo 2.
  
  When you rank up in Multiplayer, you can unlock special and powerful weapons. Such as if you rank 
 up to Corporal, you get one unlock. You can use this unlock to unlock a weapon of your choice. 
 As you rank up and get promoted, you get another unlock.
  
  This game features a commander/squad system which works out very well in gameplay. One of the players 
 on your team, usually the most skilled and highest ranked person will be the commander. The commander 
 will drop supplies around the map allowing his teammates to refit and supply. The commander can 
 also order air strikes across the map which comes in handy almost all the time. The most used feature 
 the commander can do is call in a UAV which circles around a area in which you order it and it 
 locates and puts enemies in your radar. If you are not a commander, you can be a squad leader or 
 squad member. The squad leader can tell the members of the squad to attack a specific position. 
 Also, the squad members can spawn at the squad leaders position if they die.
  
  Something else adds to the replay value, modding. The community has added lots and lots of new 
 features and maps to the game.
  
  The graphics in this game is superb also if you run it on all high settings, the game will run 
 beautifully and the environment and cities will look very nice. The detail in the characters and 
 weapons and even vehicles are very good.
  
  The sound is exceptionally good. All the weapons and vehicles sound very athentic. The helicopters 
 and planes sound very well too. There are lots of voice commands that you will end up using alot 
 by pressing the 'Q' button and holding it and then using your mouse to choose which one.
  
  Overall, this game is amazing and if you are into PC shooters, this game should be in your collection 
 without a doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikainthehut
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 4, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  If you're into a game that has action, non-stop combat, and war online, then this game is perfect. 
 If you die, its no biggy you can always respawn back in 15 seconds of delay.
  
  You may face people that are unbelievably hard, but as you progress through the game you learn 
 a few nooks and should be able to get pass them. Also unlocking weapons is a big part. But a let 
 down is having to have the expansion for the game known as Battlefield 2: Special forces for that 
 little extra support in your inventory.
  
  In order to play this game you're going to need an immense amount of hardware to play this game 
 in its best ways. Which is another downside for those with computers which are less capable of 
 overpowering gameplay. If you hate those long loading times in games when joining, well Battlefield 
 2 brings in a lot of that. 
  
  The sound of this game is amazingly good if you have a good speaker system such as dolby 5.1 or 
 7.1 surround. You get somewhat lost in the game. With all the explosions and shouting of teamates 
 you really get into the game, and that gives the game extra credibility. But if you think your 
 speakers arent what they live up to be then you will still get more than you expected, this games 
 audio is by far the best of any games audio and you will really feel as if you are a commander 
 leading your troops into victory.
  
  If you have ever dreamt about being supreme over people online, then this game brings that quality 
 in, with the option of being squad leader or commander you get into the battle real time. With 
 the extra support automatically pressing a button to give your troops orders, this game comes with 
 fully functional microphone communication, giving you that extra support for your team and sqaud. 
 
  
  In Battlefield 2 you get to choose from 3 different factions, the USA, armed with specialist guns 
 and equipment, you're sure of getting the upper hand with your teams arsenal of weapons. Another 
 faction the MEC (Middle eastern coalition) you are armed with weapons of dealing a great deal of 
 damage to your enemy. Also you get to choose China, although they are not included into the game 
 as much, you still get to play as them, China is great for its weapons speed of fire, with this 
 you can kill people that get in your way.
  
  So if you think you've had enough of Zelda or Final Fantasy and want a change, then Battlefield 
 2 is the right way to go. Get into the action and play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junkyjames23
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 2, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Ive been having some COmputer troubles so i have not even played online which i Here is INTENSE!!! 
 I think the game is a little challenging but it is pretty realistic. maybe not as realistic as 
 Americas Army but thats okay. The levels have all these like stratigig things in everymap like 
 in a few levels u can get like alot of air in a car. Flying is a blast because u can kick ass or 
 just be like a suicide bomber like me and go on a jihad. It is madly addictive and time flies when 
 u play this game. My game loads slow but i thinkit just depends on your computer. I had to buy 
 a new graphics card just to play this game but i think its worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: txhallows
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 1, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best multiplayer games I've ever played. The size of the maps are huge. The 
 better you get the more addictive the game is. When I first flew the chopper I'd crash within seconds 
 of taking off. Now, I can fly with the best of them. You will die quite a bit at first and maybe 
 even get frustrated. You will get better though. 
  Multiplayer is the biggest attraction of this game, and the way they do it.
  Graphics are pretty 
 phenomenal. Sound is great, nothing like the sound of rockets wizzing by your head. 
  Playing with people you know is even better. Taking a squad and just tearing up the opposition 
 is hours of fun. Strategy, stealth, action packed it's all here. I try not to get a bonor everytime 
 the woman's voice says, "welcome to duty," at the start of the game.
  If you're into multiplayer games at all, this is definitley a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 25, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent game. As a single player game, it's an average game at best. But if you want 
 multiplayer action, this may be the best game on PC right now. You've probably heard lots about 
 this game so i'll just give it briefly.
  Graphics, pretty good, especially if you got a GPU that can handle it.
  Gameplay is excellent. 
 Some weapons are better than others. Some classes are better than others. 
  Sound is excellent. The maps are excellent, although the urban maps are by far the best.
  The 
 thing that strikes me as particularly fun about BF2 is that I found myself having a blast regardless 
 of whether I won or lost; that's pretty hard to do. Often times if I am losing, it's just not fun 
 (like it often is not fun in Halo 2 when losing) . Bf2 is just really fun to play. There's not really 
 much else to say. It's a great balance between realism and arcade style action. Do yourself a favor 
 and buy this game if you like FPS. It's excellent!
  There's some lag issues that pop up, and not because of your connection or computer performance. 
 The networks just aren't all that efficient. The online could use some upgrades and there's some 
 bugs. But those things get overlooked when you're squad comes under attack by a Blackhawk helicopter!
 
  
  I've had to edit this review and change the tilt from 9 to 8. The reason being the bugs in the 
 game. There are SO many it's completely ridiculous. And while I love the game, being shipped with 
 so many bugs means it doesn't deserve a 9. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simins4
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 29, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  I do engoy killing evrything I dont agree with (In Games) as much as the next GTA fan, but I still 
 want to think about Who I kill, What wepon I should youse, In what direction I should atack him, 
 and if (Just for the hell of it) I should call in an artilery strike or not. I want a game like 
 Battlefield 1942, Veitnam, And now, 2. The game Is reilistic, fun and engoyable. you can have a 
 wide diversity on what you can do. I still have a problem, but its that, whell, it isint the franchise 
 that I fell in love with, its just an adverage FPS... Okay, a Extrodinary FPS. but it isint what 
 I expectid from DICE, but honistiy these are just mield conserns, you will probobly forget that 
 as soon as you go online.
  
  I engoyd it, but i still play HL2 more than it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sinethar
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  If anyone is like me, they know a good game the moment that they see it. That's precisely what 
 went through my mind after hearing about Battlefield 2 for the first time.
  
  Lot's of people remember Battlefield 1942. Claimed "Game of the Year" by many, 1942 was the best 
 WWII FPS on the market, allowing players to not just run around as a footsoldier, but hop in tanks, 
 drive battlecruisers, and fly planes to blow the crap out of the enemy in the most fun way possible. 
 Unfortunately, being released in 2002, its graphics weren't super-slick, but none of us cared about 
 that, now did we?
  
  Well, somebody in EA finally got the greatest idea in history: a sequel to Battlefield 1942. This 
 game is absolutely THE BEST FPS out there; it's even better than (dare I say it?) Halo 2. You heard 
 me. BETTER - THAN - HALO - 2.
  
  With incredibly fast, deep, and addictive gameplay (online AND offline; that's right, the bots 
 are smart now!) , breathtakingly beautiful graphics, and incomparable sound design, this game has 
 my vote for Game of the Year for 2005 hands down. As you can tell, I have been playing this game 
 non-stop. The unlockables that are included in the game are just unbelievable. Extraordinary. I 
 cant think of anything better to say about the game except that its a humongous adrenaline rush, 
 as well as more addicting than crack. I just wish that they left the battlecruiser in the game 
 as a drivable vessel.
  
  To put it simply: ***If you have a computer that can handle modern-age graphics, THIS GAME IS AN 
 ABSOLUTE BUY.***
  
  Now go kick some butt on the best FPS in history!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vain_Apocalypse
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I entered the game with a level of caution after reading a few dozen reviews trashing the gameplay, 
 value, and load times. But I can say now that my fears weren't well founded. I'm thoroughly satisfied 
 with the online gameplay, and even the offline gameplay, as the A. I. seems to of been greatly improved, 
 and can nolonger truely be called A. S. (Artificial Stupidity) .
  
  The Graphics:
  As I'm sure you already know, the graphics are marvelous, you need only a decent video card to 
 fully enjoy the splendor of the most realistic looking game based on modern warfare to date. There's 
 a significant level of detail, and well worth the high system specs.
  
  The Sound:
  Even those who have dissed the game can agree that the sound is superb. Not only do all the weapons 
 and vehicles sound like they should, not only will you be absorbed into the battlefield as you 
 hear high caliber rounds narrowly miss you and lodge themselves in whatever you're near, but you'll 
 be rather impressed the first time you drive through a tunnel and hear the effect caused by the 
 sound of your engine bouncing off the walls. And to top off the great audio detail, nothing can 
 compare to the ability to quickly and easily coordinate your efforts with your teammates via a 
 headset.
  
  The Gameplay: 
  I'm completely satisfied with this. There're a good variety of maps, and more still coming out. 
 The gameplay sticks to the good 'ol Battlefield formula thats worked so well since BF:1942. My 
 only complaint regarding the gameplay is the aboilishment of the more generic modes of gameplay, 
 you too maybe disappointed to find that only the conquest mode remains... No straight forward team 
 death matches, no capture the flag... Just conquest. Conquest (For those of you not familiar with 
 previous Battlefield games) is a mode of gameplay in which your team must capture specific points 
 on the map and defend them from your enemy's team. It's an original mode to play in, but sometimes 
 you'll really wish for something else, such as a teamdeathmatch, or capturetheflag game. Other 
 than that, the gameplay is solid, and the online tracking of your stats, coupled with unlockables, 
 really adds some extra value to the gameplay.
  
  System Requirements:
  I'll admit, most gamers probably wont be able to handle this game, especially with the graphics 
 set at high. But if it'll help you judge whether or not you should get it, you can compare your 
 system specs with mine, and then rest assured knowing that I have never gotten a second of lag, 
 and that the load times really aren't that bad.
  
  1GB of RAM
  2 GHz processor
  And a Nvidia GeForce integraded video card capatible with DirectX9c
  
  With all that, you shouldn't 
 experience a moment of lag, atleast not on the lowest settings.
  
  Lastly:
  It's a great game, my only complaints are that they only have Conquest gameplay mode available, 
 and that the system requirements might be too steep for alot of people. Other than that, the sound, 
 gameplay, graphics, overall value makes it a superb game, and deffinitely worth your time and money 
 if you have a PC up to the task.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RomisSandthief
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 27, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  This game looks very much like every other Real world FPS, but I has its differences. This game 
 is only meant to be played on Multiplayer. Singleplayer is absimaly stupid. The AI is absolutely 
 stupid. You will see enemies run right past you without stopping to shoot at you. You will be run 
 over by team mates. Shot at by team mates and on occasion healed by team mates. One of the most 
 annoying parts of the game is the 15 second wait before you respawn. If you are killed (which you 
 will be alot) you will have to wait 15 seconds to respawn. While this does allow you to be resurrected 
 with full health if their is a medic around but unforntunely their rarely is. In team battles few 
 people want to be the medic and the computer is horrible at keeping the medics alive. This means 
 that you have to sit and stare at the computer screen while your team mates are being ripped up. 
 If you are totally killed (no chance of a medic reviving you) you still must wait 15 seconds but 
 you also can not choose your respawn point or change the kit you are useing. This really breaks 
 up the feel of the game. You are lost in no mans land for minutes of the battle. One way that the 
 programmers could have made this better is showing you who killed you and how you died in that 
 15 seconds but instead you watch your corpse dissappear instead.
  
  This game also needs a third person perspective. I found myself always looking back on Star Wars 
 Battlefront 1 and 2. Star Wars Battlefront is everything that Battlefield 2 is not and is a far 
 better playing experience. It has more of everything and is not a slow game. You die quickly just 
 like in Battlefield but instead you see who killed you and respawn at once. 
  
  So for any FPS fan don't waste your money on this horrible game, go out and buy Star Wars battlefront 
 and have a lot more fun with it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trezizi12345
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 26, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I has great combat, a bit unrealistic but **** happens. Pilot Buggys to massive tanks to even a 
 jet armed with war head. I like how you could pick who you wanted to be eg. medic or anti-tank, 
 but even that got annoying. Flying anythink in that game takes atleast 4 hours non stop playing 
 to master. It also needs a singleplayer which pissed me off that it diddent have. but appart form 
 that its a great multiplayer game. Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy 
 Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy 
 Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2k_rammerizkool
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 26, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a really cool game. There are lots of really cool moments in the game, like when 
 you are the support class, trying to capture a base by yourself when enemies are spawning constantly 
 around you, but are just gunned down by your machine gun. It's moments like those that keep BF2 
 a dynamic and exciting game to play.
  
  And now.... onto the specs :P
  
  Gameplay: Very solid, although it can be weak at times. Shooting people, and being shot at, doesn't 
 feel as satisfying as it should, like in Unreal Tournament. While that doesn't ruin the game, it 
 doesn't exactly help it a lot, due to all the focus being on "kill people, capture bases".
  You will need a fairly decent computer to play this, and have fun doing it. My old computer was 
 very low-end, 1.4 ghZ, 256 mb RAM... but with a good video card, an ATI 9800 All-In-Wonder Pro. 
 And on that computer, BF2 was like a slug, and i loathed playing it. But now, i have a more mid-end 
 computer: 2.4 gHz, 512 mb RAM, same video card, 500 gigs hard drive space.... etc, and it runs perfect 
 for the most part. Except one part..
  Loading times. Like in Battlefield 1942, the loading times in this are killer. On my old computer, 
 it literally took 5 minutes to load a small 16-player map. On this mid-end computer, however, the 
 loading times were cut down to less than a minute, depending on the map's size. They are still 
 kind of long, and i wish EA could have fixed this.
  Speaking of long loading times, it even takes a metric minute to load up the MENU, if you are in-game. 
 I find that to be really weird. It can take about 10 seconds, or less. That can be really annoying 
 after a while.
  
  Graphics: I honestly don't know. I can't set the graphics much higher, because otherwise it will 
 run sluggishly like on my old computer. But as for what i have seen, they are excellent. The water, 
 although its reflections are lazily made, looks quite cool. The shadows in this are awkward; depending 
 on the angle you look at them, the anti-aliasing will jump from sharp to crazily-pixellated, and 
 that can look really crappy...
  
  Sound: Great. Weapon sounds are excellent, vehicle sounds are moderately realistic, and blah blah 
 blah...
  
  Value: Great, i suppose. $50 is standard nowadays, and it's a pretty standard game.
  
  Other: 
 I hate binding the controls. I would guess that EA was on a mission to make the worst control binding 
 system possible, and they succeeded. If there is a conflict between 2 controls, you can't bind 
 over it. You have to look for the control in the section it says, clear it, then go back and bind 
 it. When your control scheme is different than what they have, it can be really annoying after 
 a while. And if you actually successfully bind a control, it sets your mouse to the middle of the 
 screen. Now, that may seem to be a trivial complaint, but assuming you cleared every control before 
 you re-bound them (which is smart to do, anyway) , you will just want to move your mouse down a 
 section. But NOOOOOO, your mouse gets reset to the middle, and after re-binding a couple dozen 
 controls, that can get really nerve-wrackingly annoying.
  
  Overall, BF2 is a fun game, but some annoying "features", weak gameplay, and long loading times 
 bring it down a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tourismo
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 5, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I've been wanting this game for a very long time. Mostly because when it came out our computer 
 wasnt fast enough for it. But let me just say that time flies by when im playing this game. it 
 is so much fun. Online multiplayer is amazing, and the graphics are superb. This game is well worth 
 playing. my only complaint would be the lagging. it gets very frustrating when an enemy comes around 
 the corner and then yer screen freezes and you hear yourself dieing, and when the game comes back 
 yer on the ground. But its only because my computer isnt fast enough. And don't expect much from 
 the single player. There's nothing there.
  
  Gameplay - Awesome. Though it takes awhile to get the helicopter controls down.
  
  Graphics 
 - Fantastic. Some of the best out there. The water effects are very impressive and the rag doll 
 physics don't dissapoint.
  
  Sound - Great. You'll feel like yer actually in a warzone.
  
  Value - Has great replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ControllerFreek
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 26, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Your pulse is pounding at a mile a minute. All around you, artillery shells send dust and debris 
 flying into the sky. You see a man lying on the ground in severe pain, so you get out of prone 
 position to help him. Crossing the street to reach the wounded soldier, you are bombarded by tank 
 fire. The force of the bullets exploding nearby causes your vision to blur and your ears to pound. 
 You leap on the ground and give the soldier a medpack just in time to witness a grenade landing 
 at your feet. Your life will be over in three seconds.
  
  DICE has hit the nail on the head with Battlefield 2, the latest game in the Battlefield series. 
 Every moment served online is a moment filled with raw fear and courage. For the first time in 
 history, an online game has been created which puts teamwork over every-man-for-themself and tactics 
 over running and gunning, and it couldn't be better.
  
  One aspect of the title that seriously contributes to the feeling that you are experiencing a war-torn 
 environment is the presentation. Both the graphics and sound are key contributors in elevating 
 the gameplay. 
  
  While the overall graphics and texturing leave something to be desired, the visual effects are 
 superb. When an explosion occurs, the blurring screen and smoke effects create a sensation of horror 
 while you scramble for the nearest object to take cover behind. And while the graphics aren't all 
 that, there is something to be said for a good view distance and a relatively low ping, even on 
 64 player servers. One thing that should be noted is that it will take a higher end PC to play 
 this game correctly, and by that I mean at high settings
  
  The audio is even more impressive. The string score played while loading a map helps to heighten 
 the tensity as you wait to physically enter the game, while the booming orchestral portions glorify 
 your wins after the smoke has cleared.
  
  Right from the first boot-up, I was pulled in by a captivating opening cutscene with equally captivating 
 music. This opening cutscene showcased many of the different options available for use by the player 
 in battle and was quite cool. Unforutantely, my emotions shifted considerably when I decided to 
 skip multiplayer action at first to learn the controls through single player. After tweaking all 
 my graphical/keyboard options, I jumped into a single player map. When I landed, I met perhaps 
 the most stupid artificial intelligence yet known to man. The computer characters seemed hell bent 
 on charging towards me from a mile away with nothing but a knife, and they would sometimes stand 
 directly in front of me while staring blankly at my loaded automatic.
  
  So, after a botched attempt at learning the game's fairly complex controls through the atrocious 
 single player, multiplayer was the only thing that could save my 50 dollar purchase (and thankfully, 
 the reason I bought the game in the first place) . I must say that some issues immediately confronted 
 me. For one, the bane of online PC gaming, Gamespy Arcade, made finding a good server more of a 
 hassle than it really needs to be. Also, loading said server took a fair bit longer than I had 
 originally expected. But what happened next was worth any amount of waiting in the world.
  
  This game utilizes a unique squad system, which, when combined with headset support right out 
 of the gate, leads to outstanding teamwork and coordination, even within a 32 member party. Basically, 
 one person is elected the commander position for a side, and he controls both the tactics and the 
 artillery drops/supply drops (yes both of these events actual occur) . The commander can only speak 
 directly to the squad leaders (people who front each 6 man squad) , while the squad leader can only 
 talk to the commander and to the members within his squad. The squad members may only talk amongst 
 other members of the squad. This chain of command is the best way to coordinate attacks and complete 
 objectives. The amount of tactics that can be utilized within a squad or even outside of a squad 
 is quite staggering given the immense size of the maps.
  
  And it won't be hard to assign yourself a personal goal either. There are a handful of different 
 classes to become. These classes range from the standard assault class to the ultra fun medic class. 
 The classes are well balanced, and each one is helpful in its own way. Running low on ammo? Call 
 for a support man. Tank mucking things up for a group of trapped soldiers? Call for an Anti-Tank 
 or Special Ops unit. 
  
  As previously mentioned, the game supports up to 64 players online and runs smoothly. I did not 
 experience much lag, and when I did it did not affect gameplay greatly. The realistic weapons, 
 combined with smooth animation and a good physics engine, make each experience different from the 
 last.
  
  Extensive is another good word for the game, and can be applied to...
  - the Ranking System
  - the Vehicle Selection (humvees, tanks, planes, helicopters, boats)
 
  - the Weapon Selection
  - the Number of Players Online
  - the Mod Community
  - the Replay Value
  - the Hours Lost Playing this Game
  
  So if you have a computer system 
 powerful enough to tackle the beastly requirements of Battlefield 2 and have a place in your heart 
 for online gaming, you owe it to yourself to experience the game that thrusts you as close to actual 
 war as physically possible, without crossing the line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebushank
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 24, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a great FPS game both online and in the single player campaign. The graphics always 
 depend on what your machine can do but on high settings it looks fantastic, with dynamic textures, 
 shadows and fantastic human models. The game is lots of fun to play and as you get better you just 
 fell the need to play ot more. its addictive as hell.
  
  Figuring out ways of killing your oppents is dead fun, like climbing up a crane with a sniper rifle 
 and picking off everyone you can see. the vehicles are lots of fun especailly when their packed 
 with troops as you ride into the enimies territory.
  
  This is indeed one of the better games in the battlefeild series, possibly the best because of 
 its cool weaponary, Lots of vehicles, lots of locations and lots of ways of outsmarting your opponents.
 
  
  A great game, the add-on is allot of fun to with the added weapons like a grappling hook to climb 
 buildings, tear gas, flash bangs and even dune buggies.
  
  yeow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoody12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 22, 2006 4:08 am PT
Review:  hi,
  first off I must say I have a ATI9800PRO 256MB Pentium 4 2,6 GHZ adn 768MB ram
  and I must say even on low/medium the game still looks pritty.
  Just make sure you have a 256MB 
 graficcard or the game will look VERY ugly
  now let's talk about the game:
  Sound: 8
  the sounds are really cool if you are close to the battle, you can really hear the bullets penetrate 
 the walls, but on the other hand, you don't hear any sounds in the distance, what doesn't really 
 give you the war feeling
  Grafics: 9
  the grafics are really nice if you have a monster rig, and I don't have a monster rig, but no worry's 
 for the ppl who have a less good PC, it still looks nice, believe me, you get really in the war-feeling 
 when your laying with your machinegun in a house, and suddenly you get bombed by a minigun, these 
 little gun explosions are really nice built
  Gameplay: 9
  the gameplay is really addictive mainly becouse the games is all about action, no stupid thinks 
 off big areas, you are really direct in the battlefield and that's cool, the second thing I think 
 is really cool is the ranking system, the only bad thing about is that ppl only go for the points 
 and not for teamplay, and that can get really anoing
  Verdict:
  the game is very cool , but EA didn' did all the thinks that they promised, but still it's a really 
 cool game.
  I have based my scores on what I have seen, and what I have seen is nice
  plus the games i REALLY addictive, and you will be playing this game for many hours
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Battlefield series since the very first game came out. As each title appeared 
 it just got better. Finally having got my hands on Battlefield 2, I was really impressed with it's 
 intuitive interface, and clever game play strategy. Never before was it possible to engage in battle 
 like you can now with Battlefield 2. The graphics are nothing short of incredible, and the gameplay 
 is highly addictive taking the genre by storm. 
  
  The only draw back I have found is the multi player ability... previous generations of the title 
 have been renowned for being able to have a few players, but still have the ability to play against 
 an army. Unfortunately, unless you have a LAN of 16 - 32 players you won't be able to experience 
 this, unless you have a pretty good internet connection. 
  
  But on the whole the title is remarkable, and if you have a good internet connection, worth the 
 purchase. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StMalice
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  This is review more so for Nations-At-War Mod than BF2. BF2 was good, but EA has kind of screwed 
 the pooch on it. The more patches they put out the more flaws appear. The game is pretty much lost 
 at this point and I'm sort of surprised people still play it. It's also easily hacked. 
  
  Now - In the mod community one has risen to be WAY better than the original. When compared to the 
 original game is a huge improvement. Graphics - better. Technicals - better. Performance - better. 
 Value - better. Maps - better and more of them. It's also backed up with a top notch development 
 team who care more about game play than ranking. They've changed around the kits and added some 
 features to some. 
  
  Take a static TOW missile, now they're on pickups. Yes, they've added pickups and on top of that, 
 they added mini-guns to dune buggies. You'll also get lock-ons from some missile firing vehicles. 
 The support kit also gets Stinger missiles which are really accurate. 
  
  Overall - The only reason people should still buy or play this game, is to play this mod. I can't 
 help believe that this is what EA had in mind, but couldn't execute. The score I give is for the 
 3.9 Nations At War Mod. Check out their website. www. nations-at-war. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: germanbf2freak
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is ridiculous. The best fps game ever. The graphics are stunning. When i snipe i can 
 see the enemy's eyes blink. The detail on the guns is also awesome. The best of all is the multi 
 player. 64 people on one small map fighting from street corner to street corner, door to door, 
 block to block. It could get any better. The vehicles make the game even better. Tanks rolling 
 around, planes screaming from above. The ranking system is also a great addition to the game. The 
 higher rank, the better guns you can get. This game is worth the large patches and long loading 
 all the way!! I recommend the game to any fps lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumbody1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 18, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  When i first got this game i expected it to be terribly laggy but when i finally installed it, 
 i discovered that there was hardly any lag. In the multiplayer part of the game you are able to 
 join maps with up yo 64 people in it (including youself) with a minimum size of 16 players. For 
 so much people the game has very large maps with numerous vehicles that you can drive or shoot 
 from if you happen to be a passenger, you can pilot jets and some helicopters in this game with 
 a variety of land vehicles to choose from too. This game in my opinion is one of the best FPS (First 
 Person Shooter) games i have played in a long time.
  
  Gameplay - Marvellous - 10
  
  Graphics - Spectacular - 9
  
  Sound - Brilliant - 10
  
  Value - Good - 9
  
  Tilt - 
 Awesome - 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atlessky
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 4, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  First-person shooter legend and more better than Battlefiled 1942. The graphic has improved a lot 
 even the sound. Forget about old ways of war, this is modern and you will use the best thing you 
 have like artillery. New vehicles, airplane and more maps. Play online and get ready to feel the heat. Battlefield 
 2 also improved from the shooting, It is more realistic and great RPG, auto lock at helicopter. This 
 the best war game I ever played and you MUST get it although you need a lot of... graphic card. So, taste 
 the blast and choose from 3 countries to get to war, PEOPLE!!! Well, I have to say this game is so 
 damn superb ultimate totally a great, good MASTERPIECE game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowplayinghalo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Holy crap (10)
  
  This is probably the best game I have ever seen. Massive open levels, tons of vehicles, crazy helicopter 
 fights, incredibly good outdoors and urban combat, huge battles if you join the right servers (3500+ 
 good servers, 7000+ if you are searching without filters) , teamwork is a must, commanders can call 
 down artillery to help troops, command post capturing gameplay, coordination and working together 
 are extremely rewarding, plus so many things I can't put here.
  
  Graphics: Incredible (10)
  
  Too good to even list some things except a 1km draw distance
 
  
  Sound: Superb (10)
  
  Again, too great to even describe
  
  Value: Wow, but you have to have a supercomputer (Which I don't. I had to go to a gaming center 
 to play this every time) (8)
  
  Tilt: Awsome (10)
  
  Look, I'm not some stuck up little Battlefield-crazy prick, but this game is nearly perfect in 
 every way, except for the system requirements. I have never seen a game this good.
  
  BTW: Can anyone tell me if the following things will make the game run fast ebough to play it? 
 (Not the minimum, but recommended) . I have seen the requirements, but everyone has a different 
 computer.
  
  1024 MB DDR memory
  200 GB Hard Drive
  nVidia GeForce 6100 graphics
  9-in-1 media reader
  Microsoft Windows XP Media Center Edition Software 2005
  
  The computer 
 I'm getting with all of the above is an AMD Athlon 64 3700+
  
  TY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOLIDUS_SNAKE
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Let me tell you now, go buy this game. Stop reading and go get it. You will not be disappointed. 
 This game is perfect in almost every way, the only reason I didn't give it a perfect 10 was so 
 that you would not think my review was just me saying "go buy this is game!!!" in all caps. 
  This is a game were you can sit for hours and not get bored. The depth of the stats and each type 
 of soldier is great. The graphics are some of the best I have seen, and the sound is great if you 
 crank it up loud. The only gripe I have is loading times are a bit to long, but I guess it comes 
 with how HUGE the maps are. And sometimes it can get a little laggy especially when a chopper drops 
 a few bombs around you. 
  The online community is great. I used to play Counter Strike Source and there were lots of hackers 
 and I would get kicked sometimes for no reason. I have never been kicked in BF2 or seen any hackers. 
 
  Once again I would recommend this game to anyone. Go and get it, it is well worth the money. If 
 you have any questions please PM me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pap3rT0wel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 17, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 has a great concept - 32 players on each team duke it out for points on a map backed 
 by military hardware and an overseeing commander. First, I'll give you the good. If you can play 
 this game with the settings maxed out, it looks great. The sound is impressive, you can hear your 
 gear swaying as you move, shells hitting the ground, etc. If you join a server that has people 
 who play tactically, this can be one of the greatest multiplayer experiences around. For example, 
 I found myself on an amazing team and squad. Our squadleader was recieving orders from our excellent 
 commander, and we used squad tactics, covered each other, etc, and it was a blast. However, now 
 I come to the bad part. You won't often find a server such as this. First of all, you will find 
 some of the most obnoxious players I have ever encountered. An example of this is, should you be 
 a battlefield game veteran, you will know that vehicles respawn after destroyed. In battlefield 
 2, if you're waiting for a vehicle, people that are on your team will ruthlessly murder you to 
 be able to pilot a plane, chopper etc. 
  If you can make it past the community's flaws, and occaisonal bugs and glitches, BF2 is a great 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whateverman1579
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  this game is a great addition to the BF series and redeems it after a mildly dissapointing BF Vietnam. 
 the greatest part of this game is the fact that while you're running around there might randomly 
 be a chopper flying above you and then it explodes and the remains fall on some guy. there are 
 so many spontanious things that happen that can be really funny or get you killed.
  
  this game is fun but also requires thinking to play, you can't just rambo into the open or make 
 a run for that car that's across the street during a firefight. you actually have to think so that 
 you don't get gunned down by everyone and become a free target. 
  
  the greatest part of this game is when you join a server with your Vo IP mic and join a squad and 
 are just able to talk to each other and coordinate and actually act as a squad. it can be hard 
 to find a squad that actually does this but when you do you'll be playing for several hours before 
 you realize what time it is. this is what truly makes the game so great. you don't have 30 players 
 yelling at each other over who's the best, just 6 people at the most talking to each other normally 
 and also the squad leader who is able to talk to the commander. if the game came with a microphone 
 s everyone had one it'd be better but it supports VOIP out of the box so no complaints here.
  
  the artillery can get a little annoying at times but it doesn't ruin the game. it just teaches 
 you to move rather than camp in a single spot for more than 10 seconds. also, it doesn't rain down 
 constantly because it takes a while to reload itself for the commander to use it. it's also funny 
 sometimes when you're literally less than 5 seconds from capturing a flag when you here it whistle 
 and then fly several stories into the air after being hit by the barrage. 
  
  there are a few slight vehicle balance issues because after the recent update the helicopters are 
 just a little weak in their armour and the planes are a little to strong n every aspect but that 
 doesn't affect the game negatively.
  
  the main problem with the game is the team killers. there aren't many in ranked servers which is 
 fine but in unranked servers it gets really annoying but the unranked servers aren't usually that 
 good anyway. also, having a bad commander can ruin you round. you can mutiny him but most of the 
 time he doesn't get voted out. once the next round starts the commander usually is different though. 
 so this again isn't a big issue.
  
  all of the unlocked weapons are fun now that they balanced the PKM. most of the unlockable weapons 
 are just as good as their default counterparts but they have scopes or a bigger magazine or they 
 just look freakin cool. but they are balanced so people that are new to the game don't get dominated 
 by the veterans by superior firepower. 
  
  overall you'll definitely get you money's worth out of this game because of how much replay time 
 you get out of it. Since it's all based around multiplayer, there's no predictable NPC AI. You're 
 always up against other people so there's always something new happening and your opponent (hopefully) 
 is smart. so i wold recommend getting it because it'll last you longer than all those other great 
 games like HL2 and call of duty 2 do with their limited single player and basic multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djredman123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game a month ago on PC for 50$. Battlefield 2 feels similiar to ww2 games like COD 
 or brother in arms but i think it's better because you are free to roam.
  Graphics: the graphix in this game are good if you have a good pc (where u can set the texture/object 
 level to high) , and u can climb up on watch towers and snipe ure opp.'s, the graphics are OKAY.
 
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay's wat's important. YEs this is a combat first person shooter game. it's 
 gameplay allows you to carry 4 weapons, a pistol, knife, rifle/machine gun/ and a special kit. U 
 can sprint and run by taping the w button. So the roaming controls are overall good. The animations 
 somtimes can get a little frusrating or tricky. because u can shoot somebody 10 times right in 
 the chest and they won't die. They also come up behind u constantly when your trying to take over 
 a checkpoint. The weapons are good and you get a certain amount of ammo depending on what mode 
 you choose. You can be a couple diff. ranks. You can be in special forces, medic, engineer, sniper, 
 and anti tank. There all how they sound. If your a medic, your given a medic kit where when somebody's 
 hurt you can heal them, same things go with the other categories. You can also drive and fly as 
 well as walk and run. The gameplay is definetly fun.
  
  Sound. The sound fx are good, no problems. this isn't the type of game with music playing in the 
 background, only when somebody wins or loses, You often only here voices from your team or commander.
 
  
  Multiplayer: this game has the best multiplayer mode i think The fact u can hop in a plan and fight, 
 land and then kill somebody is tight.
  
  Overall:9.3
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: laxkeep999
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 16, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  I have loved playing BF2, the awesome graphics, the awesome gameplay, just awesome. This is the 
 type of game i love to play, being a big Joint Ops fan. The difference between this and joint ops 
 is that there is only 64 player maps, compared to the 150 player maps on JO. This is ok considering 
 150 BF2 rendered on a screen would destroy any mid range pc. 
  I, having a top line PC, don't have such problems, and so I can play this game in full settings 
 and its utter bliss. 
  But even with my beast PC, I was still plagued by long load times. Which was very annoying . So 
 this game does; nt get as good a rating as it would have done if it had a better config file etc. 
 
  
  Overall this is a really, really good game. And the addition of Special Forces has made the game 
 better and better. Althought i dont approve of having to pay for Euro Forces. It should be a bigger 
 expansion for the money or totally free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kasrkin_BA
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 16, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 
  
  I have some good news and some bad news. Good news; Battlefield 2 achieves everything it set out 
 to do. Bad news; it didnt try to aim too high. The gameplay, while not exceptionally good, 
 isnt that bad either. In a nutshell, the creators wanted to create a fun game about modern 
 combat in the old Battlefield 1942 mould i. e. take and hold checkpoints until the other side has 
 no more reinforcement points. And to stay true to the old 1942 formula, vehicles and soldiers can 
 take an absurd amount of pain before being obliterated. 
  
  What does this mean? you say. This means that Battlefield 2 is basically a team deathmatch 
 game that uses some modern weapons and vehicles. So, with this in mind, players can throw out any 
 strategic thought and tactical gameplay and just go for the highest score. This isnt helped 
 much by the fact that the high scores equal unlockable weapons. DICE, bless them, have tried to 
 make the game more team orientated by making it so that who help out their team members get bags 
 of points.
  
  The game does, however, reward skill. The flying contraptions found in the game have a steeper 
 learning curve than any other vehicle in the game and the players who have mastered the art of 
 aerial combat or providing close air support are rewarded very generously. On the flip side, the 
 game seems to punish those who try and play the game with some tactical thought. In reality a soldier 
 who fires controlled shots from behind some cover at an exposed soldier will more or less win in 
 a fire fight. This is not the case with Battlefield 2. Bunny hopping and bunny diving while using 
 the spray and pray tactic often achieves a quick victory in a fire fight and this 
 can often be quite depressing.
  
  The game has captured a lot of the fun that could be achieved from the previous instalments but 
 also retains a lot of the flaws. 
  
  
  Graphics 
  
  As an owner of a high-end PC, this game is a RAM hog. It will need so much power just to get the 
 game running smoothly. But once youve gotten the initial performance issues youll 
 be playing a very attractive game. The water is quite convincing, muzzle flash is quite special 
 and everything looks like its supposed to. The vehicles looks very pretty indeed, a lot 
 of detail has gone into them so that they resemble their real world counterparts. The player models 
 look quite odd at first glance and the various facial expressions often look more comical than 
 intimidating especially if you see someone firing a SAW.
  
  The player model animations are quite questionable. Ive never seen anyone really move like 
 that, its as if the game is set in the Thunderbirds universe. Also, the explosion and particle 
 effects arent quite up to the visual standards of the rest of the game. Another annoying 
 niggle is the debris. It looks completely unconvincing but I guess thats all you can ask 
 for in regards of the Battlefield engine. 
  
  
  Sound
  
  I remember watching the trailers for Battlefield 2 a while before the game came out and the thing 
 that struck me instantly was the quality of the sounds. They were Hollywood grade sound effects 
 and I loved it. Although most of the sounds are unauthentic they made the game seem exciting. A 
 video games sound is the linchpin of the final product. If the sound is unconvincing, its 
 game over.
  
  Weapon sounds were good, vehicle sounds were great, environmental sounds were snazzy and, hell, 
 even the voices were done to good effect.
  
  Speaking of voices (no pun intended) , one thing I liked was the fact that if you were close enough 
 you could hear enemy soldiers saying things over the radio giving you clues as to their location. 
 Its a minor detail that is often overlooked in other games.
  
  The only real issue with the sound is the range of them. Battles can be heard for miles around 
 yet in Battlefield 2 you can really only hear something if its within 50m of your current 
 location. 
  
  
  Value
  
  For what it is, Battlefield 2 offers exactly what it says it does. It may be an insult to reality 
 gaming worldwide but it is quite fun. Out of the box it is a solid game. The additional patches 
 improve on the game tremendously but it will still retain some faults.
  
  The shame of it really is that as a mainly multiplayer game, with little single player value to 
 speak of, you will only be ale to appreciate this game in years to come by playing it on a LAN 
 as everyone else will have moved onto bigger and better things.
  
  Battlefield 2 delivers the goods, but it might not be what everyone ordered. If you want arcade 
 style vehicular combat on reasonable sized maps, this is the game for you. If you want something 
 tactical, I advise that you go elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g0t12ic3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 15, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Intro
  If you haven't played Battlefield 1942 (which also happens to be me) here's what everyone's talkin 
 bout. Battlefield is all about crazy action you see in those war movies. It has it all vehicles, 
 weapons, and HUGE MAPS plus tons of people!
  Graphics
  Unfortunately you won't be able to appreciate BF2's beauty unless you have a really good computer 
 and video card. Provided that you have that it's amazing! Flying in a jet or helicopter you can 
 look down at the ocean and see all the ripples of the waves and nice shine on all of the surfaces. 
 If you actually have the power you can activate dynamic lighting and shadows which really does 
 add to the experience but not as much. Every little structure and prop has its own shadow and shape 
 which is pretty dam amazing in a huge map. Also your own weapons all have a nice shine which is 
 another plus! Unfortunately because it's such a system hog most people won''t be able to enjoy 
 these nice add-ons. Really does make a world difference between medium and low settings. One thing 
 though to note is that you need to make sure your view distance is 100% or you'll have the hardest 
 time in your life. All of this would've been fine but all maps will have some kind of wierd fog. 
 Especially in Strike at Karkand you have to be some what close to your enemy to even see them. 
 This is definitely problem if your a sniper as you'll always have to constantly move closer as 
 such.
  Sound
  Now right here is where I can actually see some improvement. The sounds of the weapons lack any 
 kind of punch. You'll shoot a machine gun and it'll sound like firecrackers. Which essentially 
 is a really really bad thing considering that you play infrantry most of the time. Fortunately 
 for you and me though the vehicles sound really great and realistic. The jets have their thunderous 
 roar and silent engine, the helicopters got the thump-thumpa sound, and tanks got their robotic 
 turn and tracks. Another thing to note is that all of the languages spoken and radio transmissions 
 sound great and looks like they are actually used. Other than that the music in the menu's get 
 pretty boring as with the loading music. THEY WILL MAKE YOUR EARS BLEED. The only decent one is 
 the MEC music which for some reason makes me wanna dance. Too bad they didn't have the original 
 BF1942 music as it really made you pumped up and excited.
  Gameplay
  This is why Battlefield is a one-of-a-kind experience. Everything including the vehicles, infrantry 
 combat, and dog fighting feels great. Wait a sec the infrantry would've been perfect if certain 
 things were fixed. First matter is the constant crashes EVERYBODY GETS INCLUDING PEOPLE WITH THE 
 BEST PC GAMING COMP, since EA has never fixed this it is a real shame, another thing is the hit 
 boxes or damage detection. If you shoot someone in the head it should be a one-shot-kill correct? 
 Wrong if your not within 100m your likely to miss and not hit them at all or hit their body, thank 
 god though that usually isn't the case but still is quit irritating when it does happen. Third 
 problem should be that the sniper rifles are REALLY REALLY INACCURATE! This is probably the one 
 that hurts the most since each time I'm a sniper I can never kill anyone. Sure there is a bullet 
 drop and delay and all that but this is just ridiculous! Unless your target is perfectly still 
 or stays within the range and area you will miss guaranteed. Last problem is how your character 
 will recieve a random seizure attack or die by an unmanned vehicle. Seriously I played 1942 and 
 it didn't have the same problem so why now? If you barely made a jump to another building or cliff 
 make sure you prone down as quickly as possible since you will fall off the building or whatever 
 structure your currently resting on. Than when your on a boat, once you land it on shore you'll 
 sometimes get crushed by the boat since it'll slide a bit. If they had made it so your character 
 wouldn't slip through vehicles that also be really nice. Too bad that won't happen but this is 
 more of the engines fault but still worth noting. Other than that everything is as best as it can 
 be, though flying a jet and trying to take down another will take a lot of practice maybe a couple 
 of weeks since 1. it is hard to get into one without other people tking you or getting in first 
 and 2. the enemy is most likely a veteran and will take you down either when your taking off or 
 seconds when you're in flight. Finally though it would've been nice to have a friends list type 
 of esque to keep in touch with teammates. Since the squad feature is only useful for people with 
 voip as it is a neccesaty. Commander mode is fun but could be enhanced a bit and plays a bit like 
 a strategy game which is great.
  Replay Value
  Here it's extremely high as you'll definitely get addicted into the exciting gameplay and rewards. 
 Each time you rank up after LCPL. you'll get to choose to unlock a weapon for each kit. Currently 
 there are 3 tiers if you bought SF. The badges and ribbons and awards will definitely keep you 
 hooked and push you to your limits.
  PS: The explosive ordinance badge is probably the most difficult to recieve my tip is to be an 
 engineer and use at mines on apcs and tanks on sharqi peninsula! Works best if there are about 
 24 players max on the server.
  Verdict
  Overall this game will stay in your library for as long the next true sequel comes out. Which is 
 BF3 but that hasn't been announced yet but you know it's coming. Oh yes BF2142 doesn't count as 
 a sequel. Think of it as more of a stand-alone expansion just like BFV was to BF1942. SO BUY THIS 
 GAME NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChaoMan75
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  This might just be the best war game ever. 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is the best ever made to be avalible to humans. You can choose between 7 classes to 
 play as. They are Special Forces, Sniper, Assualt, Suport, Engineer, Medic and Anti-Tank. Each 
 one has thier own special abilities. Medics can shock pads that can revive dead team mates after 
 they have been shot. If you sneak up behind an enemy you can shock and kill them with them. Special 
 Forces have C4 packs that can be set and detomated on command. Great for setting traps. You can 
 choose from 3 teams to play as. The US Marine Core, Middle Eastern Collalition, and the People's 
 Libaterion Army of China. Each one thier own weapons. The multiplayer online really is the only 
 reason to buy this game. There are up to 64 people on one map. You can play as a Lone Wolf which 
 is being alone, no back up and making use of your suroundings for help, not team mates. You take 
 orders from no one, even your commander. You can be a squad leader. There is nothing really bad 
 about being that but the men under you are your responsibility. Then you can be a squad member. 
 This is really the best part to be but there are some restrictions to help you squad. You can do 
 what ever but try to be a Medic or a Anti-Tank. They are the most crucial to you squads survival. 
 The mebers of you squad can spawn next to thier commander. Then the most fun position to be is 
 a commander. Now every one is your responsibility. You can call in Air Strikes, Scan the map for 
 enemy soldiers, UAV drone which tracks enemy movment in the area and Suply Drop which you can give 
 to squads who need ammo, health, and other things. You also tell which of which vehicle spawn and 
 give squads new commands. For an example you can have them attack an out post, defend one, move 
 to a certan point etc. As in all Battlefield games vehicles are a really big part. They have many 
 in this game to play in. The fighter jet is small and nimble. Great for jumping at high altitueds 
 and infiltrating un-noticed. Some planes are bombers which can have 2 people riding in them. The 
 boat which can have up to 6 poeple in it. The best chioce for infiltrating. They get killed really 
 fast but and easy to be un-noticed. Tanks as always are back and more fun than ever. Up to 2 people 
 can ride in a tank at once. One has a mouted chain gun and the piolet has a big tank gun. There 
 are some anphibios craft as well. They can be on land and in the water. They are my first choice 
 to be in combat. They get a high power machine gun and a heat seaking missle launcher. Dune bugies 
 are here again too. Not that good in combat but exelent for traversing the map quickly. At last 
 but not least we have the helecopter. They are hard as 50 hells to fly but are really good in combat. 
 Each faction has a combat helecopter which can carry two people inside it. Then there is transport 
 helecopter. You can have 7 poeple in the helecopter including the piolet. Each vaeries from faction 
 to faction. One problem I had was that there are not enought urban combat levels to play on. They 
 are my favorite part of Battlefield games and we didn't get more than on this one. The online lag 
 is pretty bad and you are going to need to download the patches for it to work well. In the end 
 I downloaded about 1 gig worth of patches to get it to run smoothly. The controls may take a little 
 getting used to so I recomend you to run out and get a cheap joy stick. There is really nothing 
 else that can be said about the gameplay.
  8/10
  
  Graphics:
  Even to this day this is one of the MOST graphicly demanding games. The only one that I can think 
 of that is more requiring to it is Elder Scrolls 4 Oblivion. You are going to need at least 512 
 MB of RAM to run it. I recomend getting an extra 512 to get it to at least 1024 MB of RAM. Then 
 most of your problems. You are going to need to update ALL of you NVidia drivers for it to run 
 well. As well as a 8x or faster CD/DVD Rom drive, 2.3 gigs of free hard drive space, 128 MB of 
 visual memory and a NVidia GeForce FX 5700 or greater. You can also use a ATI Radeon 8500 or greater. 
 I found the NVidia ones worked a little bit better. If you can get a hold of all of these things 
 you are in for a graphical treat. It looks goerges. The eveviroments vast and life like. There 
 are some graphical glitches. The menus are visually pleasing and look very nice. The litting is 
 really good. If you run this at high each blade of grass looks pretty. Even with all of these graphical 
 hook ups a patch will do you good. The opening scene when you fisrt time you play takes you breath 
 away. When running on high it looks better than that.
  Note: The Specs I just listed are the minimum requirements.
  9/10
  
  Sound:
  The sound 
 might just be the best ever to appear in a video game. The music is preformed very nicely by a 
 band and orchastra. Some of the music in it sooo good, I would pay to get it off of iTunes. It 
 is deep and commanding. In the in game, there isn't alot of music. There are so many good visual 
 effects in it though you really do not miss it. Just about any computer can run the sound on high 
 quality you are going to want to invest in a heavy duty sound chip. If you can hook your computer 
 up to a plasma TV and get some suround sound going you are in for an expierience like none other. 
 Also there are some special Battlefield 2 VOIP head sets so you can make fun of your helpless enemy 
 as you run them over in a tank. The sound in this game is like none other so you may just have 
 to buy it so you can expierience it for real. The way it was ment to be heard. The sound is just 
 one of the many things things that makes this game so dam emersive.
  10/10
  
  Value:
  The value in Battlefield 2, like very thing else about it is amazing. The single player is not 
 enough to keep you entertained for a few hours but nothing more. On the other hand the online.... 
 people have been playing it for thousands of hours. Just look at the BF2 fourms and find a X-Fire 
 sig and see how many hours they have been playing it. Need I say more... well yes I do. I just 
 get the felling you are not convinced yet. There are ton of mods to add to your game. I recomend 
 the jungle fight one. So even if you suck the goodness out of the normal maps go and download a 
 mop map and start playing again. Even if you download all of the mod maps you can find the mod 
 tool and make your own. In the BFHQ section on the main menu there is an intense ranking system 
 that matched you up against the top player in the world. You can also earn medels as you get more 
 kills with different units, spend so much time in vehicles, etc. YOu can also unlock weapons to 
 play with. You will just want to play enough just to get those. The BFHQ though takes days to update, 
 so you may earn a medel in combat online but it will not be on your profile for maybe a week. As 
 you get better your level will go up. I'm still at pritevate. Nearly to First class private though. 
 
  10/10
  
  Tilt:
  I love Battlefield for it's online play. This game is going to make you want more and more and 
 more and more and more and more that you might stage a break-in and steal all of the Betas for 
 battlefield 2142. For now though, while planing our master hiests, we can get the expansion packs 
 and not see the sun light for weeks wile playing this game. You will not sleep well at night knowing 
 that only 30 more kills makes you number 15 in the world. It is that addicting.
  10/10
  
  Wrap Up:
  ... I have nothing else to say. 
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 
 10/10
  Value: 10/10
  Tilt: 10/10
  
  Result:
  9.3 
  Superb
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bert159
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 14, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  De gameplay van BF2 zit fantastisch in elkaar net zoals in de borige delen. De teamplay word ook 
 wel sterk bevordert door de mogelijkheid om squads te make. Je kan altijd respawnen bij je squadleader 
 op de map. Er is ook een commander die 't leger aanvoert, hij kan orders geven, artileryfire regelen 
 enz....
  Als commander kan je ook gwn meespele in 't spel maar 't zal zo al druk genoeg zijn. Er is ook een 
 HQ waar je je stats kan bijhoude en je kan na een tijdje ook bevordert worden waardoor je extra 
 wapens kan vrijspele. Soms is 't ook lastig dat de mappe zo groot zijn waardoor met vrienden spelen 
 minder leuk is als in CS.
  GRAPHCIS/GELUID:
  de graphics van BF2 zijn prachtig tenminste als je een goede PC hebt want de systeemeisen liggen 
 heel hoog. Over 't geluid valt niet veel aan te merke, 't is wel spijtig dat 't niet meer mogelijk 
 is om liedjes te luiste op de radio zoals in BF: vietnam, maar dat is wel normaal want 't speelt 
 zch af in de nabije toekomst.
  FUNFACTOR:
  Voor de beginners zal BF2 in 't begin moeilijk zijn online maar daarvoor is er ook nog de singeplayer. Na 
 een week ofzo zal je alles wel onder de knie hebbe.
  De speelduur is onbeperkt aangezien 't online te spele is en 't zal je niet vlug vervelen.
  Bert 
 Cuyt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaddenBowler10
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  i like to play. i think it's a blast to play. graphics are great, gameplay is amazing, the sound 
 couldn't be better. but the problem is the loading times and lagging at the start of the game. 
 it takes forever to load and once it starts up, for the first few minutes its laggging terribly 
 and its for everyone, not just me. i mean, i dont always have time to play because it takes forever 
 to load and then takes a while for the lagg to go away. and there is no way to keep track of buddies. 
 but when you do play it, it's a blast. easily one of the best FPS's out there when playable. get 
 this game if you can make it through the long load times and lagg at beginning of each server. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrHappyBizzar
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I can't get enough of this game. I first started playing it at a LAN cafe in town and I liked it 
 so much that I bought a copy of it for myself, only to find out that my computer at the time was 
 not able to handle the graphics of the game very well (GeForce 5500) . This game is the sole reason 
 why I built a new PC for myself, the online multiplayer is absolutely amazing. The servers are 
 well run (for the most part) and the gameplay is seamless. I will be playing this game for a long 
 time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrgrunge
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield has in some ways, spoiled the FPS gaming community. A balanced class set, medium to 
 large selections of infantry weaponry, a great selection of vehicles, and great maps. Battlefield 
 2 stays true to its predecessors and manages to incorporate new elements of both progression, immersion, 
 and team play. 
  
  Without a doubt, now a day gamers are always looking for something new or improved. In many cases, 
 sequels or revisions of games change too little or too much. Battlefield 2's success should give 
 a good impression of how well EA undertook the challenge.
  
  I believe one of the strongest points of interest relates to rank and progression in the game. 
 Certain weapons are restricted for all new players, requiring said players to attain better rank 
 in order to unlock their next means of destruction. Not only does this encourage good players to 
 continue playing well, but it also encourages those who would normally be apathetic towards their 
 team to pick up their weapons and work towards a common goal. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pjatter
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 12, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  Well, to start this must be the best and biggest online shooter up to date. The first three games 
 of battlefield did'nt really have that little extra that Battlefield 2 has.
  The game has everything: Amazingly stunning graphics (if you have a PC good enough) , a large growing 
 weapon arsenal, all the vehicles you can dream of, Big maps with real looking vegetation and more!!!
 
  With maps as big as 64 players you can really get out the soldier in you.
  Play as U. S. M. C (USA) , MEC (Middle-east) and Peoples liberation army (China)
  each army has their 
 own weapons and vehicles, so you will need some time to get really good at it, but it's fun anyway... I 
 strongly recommend this game to everyone who likes FPS shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcsteve61
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  EA and DICE had a lot to live up to with this one, but they did it. I was skeptical at first -- it 
 isn't the easiest game to pick up, and i wasn't the biggest fan of the first -- but quickly wowed. 
 I have nothing new to add but my simple opinion: Great graphics help a stellar multi-player experience. 
 The addition of a comprehensive stat-tracking profile -- with unlockables! -- is just icing on an already 
 tasty cake.
  
  The game does have on-again, off -gain balance problems. I'm not a mental fan-boy who overlooks 
 problems; this game is flawed. Air dominance can squelch fun fast, but luckily not everyone out 
 there is an ace pilot. And the maps are varied and fair for the most part. Saying this game has 
 a single player mode is too close to lying as well.
  
  Analysis aside, though, it's just a fun game to play. Anyone who likes first person shooters should 
 check it out -- if they haven't already.
  
  Hopefully, the imbalances will be addressed when 2142 hits shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick3333
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 25, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 
  
  BF2 has great visuals, to say the least. Everything is highly detailed and well polished, and it'll 
 take a beast of a machine to run the game with eye candy cranked up to maximum. Water effects are 
 great, weapons are detailed and kinda realistic, and the environments are very scenic and mostly 
 gorgeous to look at.
  
  Vehicles and weapons:
  
  The main draw for BF, as always, is of course the vehicles. And, as always, I am pleased to say 
 that in this it does not disappoint. Battlefield Two may be the most fun with vehicles I have ever 
 had in a game. Controls are intuitive and easy to learn (although you'll struggle with the aircraft 
 at first, especially the jets, probably landing nose-first into the water as soon as you take off 
 from the carrier for your first ten tries) . The fact that most of the vehicles are at their most 
 useful when piloted by two or more players (for instance, the attack helicopters) adds a whole 
 new level of fun and interactivity to this aspect of the game.
  The weapons themselves are mostly well balanced, although I find the snipers to be at times a bit 
 underpowered/not easy to use (which I guess is good on the other hand, seeing as how it discourages 
 too many players from choosing that particular speciality) ...
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This has to be seen, or rather played, to be believed. Incredibly fun, blazing fast gameplay ensures 
 that you never get a second of respite and are always doing something, whether it's dodging enemy 
 fire, conducting sabotage missions or pounding helpless enemy troops with your artillery.
  
  Command structure:
  
  BF2 is the first online multiplayer game that I know of to offer 
 this highly original and effective feature. Teams can be made up of squads, which have their own 
 communication channels and can communicate directly with the commander (see below) , for instance 
 to ask for a supply drop at your position, or perhaps request an artillery barrage. 
  The commander position is perhaps the most innovative aspect of the game. One person on the team 
 can play the commander position. To do this one must apply for it and be elected at the beginning 
 of a game (it helps if you rank highly) . Once elected commander, you are given access to a top-down 
 view of the map with special survelliance and artillery functions. As commander, you are the only 
 one with a clear view of the big picture, so it's up to you to assess it and issue orders accordingly.
 
  
  Ranking:
  
  The ranking system is another new addition to the BFseries. Points are gained, as are medals and 
 ribbons, for everything from killing a lot to being a good pilot to reviving fallen comrades. I 
 have to recognise this as perhaps a superficial or cheap attempt at keeping players hooked, but 
 it works regardless. I frequently find myself feverishly working towards attaining another badge. 
 In the end they are useless except maybe to impress other BF2-geeks with high stats, but this aspect 
 of the game remains fun nonetheless.
  
  Teamkilling:
  
  This is likely to become an issue at one point or another in any online shooter. In BF2, however, 
 the way to deal with it isn't exactly optimal: In BF2 the victim of a TK is given the option to 
 punish the killer ot forgive him (or her) . This seems sensible at first, but due to the nature 
 of the game it quickly ends up being ridiculous. For example, if a teammate jumps wrecklessly in 
 front of your jeep, you may well get punished for it. Even worse, if you're an engineer and a teammate 
 runs over one of your mines and dies, despite all the bright red warning icons, as often as not 
 you'll get punished. To top it all off, if you don't hit forgive within about ten seconds of being 
 killed, it defaults to punish! Subsequently, people who simply aren't paying attention to the messages 
 on the bottom of their screen end up punishing you when they didn't intend to.
  
  Lifespan:
  
  This is a game you'll definitely keep playing for quite a while. However, it does 
 get tiring after a few months, or at least it did so for me and most people I know. In the end 
 I just ended up killing my teammates en masse, planting mines on my team's runways and sticking 
 C4's onto friendly transport helicopters while inside, just to parachute out and flip the switch 
 to watch the copter explode and crash along with its ten other angry players. One thing I forgot 
 to mention in the Teamkilling section is that teamkilling in this game is incredibly fun and satisfying, 
 especially when you haven't slept for a while (you'll find yourself laughing maniacally as your 
 teammates try to get back at you and the whole match turns into a TK war) .
  
  To sum it up:
  
  A few bugs and annoyances cannot mar the greatness that is this game.
  Get 
 BF2. Odds are you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisKrishna
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 10, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2........... Published by EA Games and Developed by Digital Illutions. EA Games made 
 a lot FPS games and all are really great. Battlefield series began with Battlefield 1942 and Battlefield 
 Vietnam both made out well......... almost. Well iam not saying the compleate history just review 
 it on my view, as u know iam a first person shotter mutiplayer fan i have to get a game liek this.
 
  If a guy wanna buy this game remember to keep this in mind a great graphics card and a high end 
 computer is needed for this game.
  
  Gameplay: This is modern battlefield....... modern weapons like M-16ss, sniper covered with leafs 
 you know for camouflaging stuff, yes it is modern and not old world war 2 stuffs. And some new 
 stuffs are also included. Like artillary strike, ordering to your team mates and cars yeah baby 
 aeroplanes etc is new stuffs included in this game. And hey its a multiplayer game so you can play 
 with other real players all around the world. It will be enjoyable in high internet speed. Single 
 player is not that cool but playing in hard difficulty is like playing with you yourself. There 
 is no cvhange in gamplay its like always the same path capturing flag or finishing tickets.
  Graphics: Well never seen such graphics engine anywhere. Its superb but still probs. Iam not saying 
 probs first, first impression is the best impression. If you have a good graphics card you can 
 put in high settings and enjoy it visualy. When you put in high settings your draw distance will 
 be high and even the water reflection will be realistic, character annimation will be cool, firring 
 effects of tour guns will be cool, shadows will be realistic, like that lots of things. The bags 
 which are hanged in your back will be shaking when you walks or run. The frame rates cannot be 
 hanged or watever
  Sound: Well sound hears cool. The weapons shooting sounds, enviornment sounds, grenade explotion, 
 planes sound, everything is superb. Get a good sound card so you can enjoy visually realistic soundly 
 "Oh mother of a cr@p"
  
  Gameplay=9, Graphics= 10, sound= 10
  This game is enjoyable for a real FPS multiplayer fan and will be boring if you play more than 
 3hrs. Its all the same type gameplay
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  When i bought BF2, i expected great gameplay, ans graphics, which i found came true. But whenever 
 i exit the game, for some reason I have 30 seconds to click start, and restart, or else my comp 
 freezes, and I have to hold that little on button on the thing... Other than that BF2 was a lot 
 of fun, after the 2 minute loading screen, and the 20 minutes of lag until you can succesfully 
 play. The tracking system is pretty fun, and I'm sure that whoever's at the top of the list is 
 proud of it, since everyone HAS to know what rank they are compared to everyone else in America 
 (i'm only 20,000 points behind you #1 i'm Smurf-Kicker) .
  
  You shouldn't get the game unless you've got a good video card, or prepare for lag, or rectangles 
 of brown and orange to shoot at. The gameplay was excellent after the lag, the huge maps, tanks, 
 choppers, etc. The black hawks can either be good, or bad news for you, in a Black Hawk you can 
 be a mini gunner, pilot, or passenger shooting down, racking up the kills, on the other hand you 
 can be taking anti air fire, ground fire, etc. You can rack up the kills against them too, see 
 one flying, just hose down everyone in it with your lmg, and watch them pummel 1,000 ft to the 
 ground.
  
  All the bugs in the game were terrible though, you get to a high rank, then something happens, 
 and you have to make a new account and restart all over again. And i bet i'm not the only one who 
 has that exit problem also.
  
  Overall i think that BF2 wasn't quite worth the money, and if it weren't for the bugs in it, it 
 could have been an incredible game, but for the bugs, I think that you shouldn't buy it, but that's 
 only my opinion, and many other have great reviews, and knowing myself, you might not really want 
 to consider my review, stuff happens... : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grassgreener12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 9, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best online shooter ive played since counter-strike source. i dont know where 
 to start on all the fantastic things i can say about it. 
  
  GAMEPLAY -- the game is so freakin fun. all the weapons are balanced so i never feel overwhelmed 
 by air/land vehicles. the minor problem is that the loading is a pain in the butt, and finding 
 a game w/ my friends. can be really hard.
  
  GRAPHICS -- the graphics are excellent even though sometimes, there is some clipping and some of 
 the textures are bland and sometimes blurry. this might just be my computer since it's not brand 
 new but its worth mentioning for those who have couple year old computers. 
  
  SOUND -- the one thing that's completely flawless. the gun sounds are unique and very very loud 
 on good speakers, you can hear your feet sound change over different terrain, and when artillery 
 shells are blowing all around you, the sound is incredible!!
  
  VALUE -- the value is exxxxtremely high. the only reason i gave it a 9, is for the players that dont 
 play online, the value is pretty low. 
  
  with all this said, if you loved the first 2 games in the series you MUST pick this up, because 
 it's even better than those 2. if you didn't like the 1st 2, then this might be worth a try, but 
 you probably wont like it. for those of you who want to try the genre of online 1st-person shooters, 
 your chance to see how great this genre is, play this game, because you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 really gets you in the atmosphere of war , it has great environments , and a great 
 amount of weapons , multiplayer is the best out there for a first person shooter game ever, it 
 is fun , it is addictive and its not like any other fps multiplayer , this one you have to team 
 up , follow objectives and beat the hell out of other players with your arsenal.
  
  Multiplayer will get you hooked for hours and the stunning visuals help even more , i highly recommend 
 this game to anyone that is into first person shooters and likes to enjoy a fun multiplayer game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cr3ati0n
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  One great first-personshooter. This game in my book is one of a kind. A revolution in online gameplay 
 with the all new battle commo ,which gives you links to the website of the severs you played. Also 
 there is completely new unlockable weapons this game. Another great addition is the position od 
 commander. from this birds-eye view of the entire battlefield. from there you can call in supply 
 drops, scan the field for enemies, barrage the enemy with artillery or send in a radar scan. Battlefield 
 2 is sure to please and is extremely addictive. The unlockable weapons also gives you a reason 
 to keep on playing. Have fun playing this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazook
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Single-player is awesome since the AI is much better than in Battlefield 1942 but then it's the 
 multiplayer that went to the next step I can voice chat to people in a team and I could drive vehicles 
 on ground, in air and in sea with my friends and just random people but also the Graphics oh man 
 I swear it's just like the Source engine for Half-Life 2 which also looked awesome, the game had 
 the most punched up feeling weapons and vehicles and blasts sound so cool but also I've played 
 through the single-player for hours and I'm still playing the multiplayer sure there's not much 
 of a story in single-player but who cares just plying the game at all is amazing get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 4, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Well what else can be said about good ole' Battlefield 2? I mean this game stormed in last year 
 and carried all before it. I mean it is a damn near perfect game, but the ONLY thing it can be 
 vulnerable with is the code that runs this game. LAG, LAG, LAG ! Plus, to get it to run is sometimes 
 hit or miss!
  
  My Dell runs this game fine now. But after several recent patches I had to re-install the game 
 like 5 damn times until I could finally get it to run again! This after having a year of almost 
 trouble-free gaming with it.
  
  We all know the brilliant premise of a large scale "world" war going on (within two years -maybe 
 5) between the USA, the People's Republic of China, and a fictional coalition called the Middle 
 Eastern Coalition (MEC) . All the bad boys are here: Bradley Linebackers, T-90 MBT's, M-1A2's, Super-Cobras, 
 Mi-28 Havocs, and others of the latest and greatest military hardware!
  
  Gameplay is outstanding! From the hinterlands of China to the arid climes of the middle east, you 
 get to jump into your weapon of choice and battle it out on a realtime 3-D battlefield. Fighters 
 blaze overhead, attack helos blast away at your position with lethal AT missiles or 30mm. Man a 
 M2 Browning and feel the thunderous recoil with each firing. I mean the sound is AWESOME! You will 
 know you are on the battlefield!
  
  Graphics are superb! Although you can get by by lowering the video settings, you might as well 
 NOT play this game! UP the setting if you can and get beautifully rendered tanks, jets, soldiers 
 (or Marines!) , buildings, explosions, ships, all of it is up to exact specs! Although you will 
 LAG like a Mf'r even if you have a great PC with the settings on medium, that is the quirky thing 
 about this game! It is so damn addictive but the developers left some stuff out that makes this 
 game run spotty at times!!!!! ARGHHH!!!!!
  
  Single Player is not what sells this game, go to MP right away! Plenty of servers to choose from, 
 just make sure your ping is low enough. My experience online has been mostly very pleasant and 
 I get in good quality game sessions without experiencing much cut offs from the server. The players 
 are somewhat mature (this is the internet after all) and the rules are more or less abided by. 
 Get some practice in on non-ranked servers and you can mess up all you want but get ready to rock 
 when you play on the ranked servers. That is where the medals, ranks, weapon unlocks, ribbons, 
 and all your own personal K/d ratio stats come into play.
  
  With so many patches now, the game is aging gracefully, albeit still with the same lag problems 
 as before! Forget mentioning "BF2: Special Forces" that game is ALSO superb but some of the maps 
 will just crash on me! Infuriating, but more on that later on in another review!
  
  All in all, superb game! BUY it! 
  
  "Thanks, I owe you one!"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulfulDAGGER
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  This game is THE on line fps game to own. Excellent game play. Great sounds and graphics that are 
 near real. Totally fun to play. Nothing really much more to say. Get this game. Not sure about 
 the expansion packs. Great play balance between the different armies. Voice chat is fun but can 
 be cumbersome in the heat of battle. Excellent level design. The ambient sounds are a nice touch. 
 You can hear birds chirping, water running, the distant sounds of gunfire are incredible especially 
 on a good sound system. Would have been great to have real-time weather effects such as lightning, rain, or 
 a snow level. Maybe in the next version. Move it out soldier! "Enemy infantry spotted!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocker500
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Story- 10/10: It's not really a story, but more of a bunch of modern warfare battles, and I'd say 
 it does a pretty good job of doing that.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10: Real fun if you like to drive vehicles, or fly planes or helicopters, and stuff 
 like that.
  
  Graphics- 10/10: These graphics are twice as good as Battlefield Vietnam graphics. They especially 
 did an excellent job on the water.
  
  Sound- 10/10: BF2 sounds are amazing. All of the weapons and vehicles, etc. sound spectacular.
 
  
  Value- 10/10: In playing Battlefield 2, I myself have 60 hours and counting, and I really dont 
 play it that much. (Ive had it since June)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lincvattic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  No doubts about it Battlefield 2 is an awesome game worthy of all the awards it has recieved. You 
 like big maps? You got em. How about small ones? They have those too. With the new expansion packs 
 and the intriguing ranking and commander additions, this game can be played in so many different 
 ways. This game is so amazing because you feel dedicated to play a game once you start. It has 
 generally nice guys (there are exceptions...) and if the army works as a team, it feels awesome. 
 ;lkj; lkadkfj; lkj; lk kjkj kjk kjkj kkj j jj j j jkkj j j j j jakdj j j j jd djd j 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Dukes
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 3, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, ive been playing this game since it came out and it continues to grow on me, i think it is 
 a very exciting game and full of surprises! I find myself playing it to the wee hours of the night 
 playing it yelling at the screen... ahahahahaha, sometimes not in a good way, but thats why its 
 so awesome, works out all of your emotions w/ exciting multiplayer high speed action. Visuals are 
 pretty damn good considering there are some 64 players on a server at once and they have something 
 for everybody to do... which is good because some people just dont like the ground and pound tactics... so 
 they just hop in a fast mover and drop bombs on peeps. ahhh, good game for all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avengefulreign
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  This game is great! The graphics are awesome, the gameplay is fast and smooth, and the sound is 
 beautiful. The multiplayer is fun and exciting. You can jump in any vehicle from land to air to 
 sea with each their own speacial abilities. Or grab a stationary mounted machine gun and level 
 the opposing forces. Working as a squad is really fun... especially when you work together. You 
 can really do some damage in this game. The sound is great. You should hear this game on surround 
 sound, you can hear the battle from every angle making it feel so real.
  
  This game is a definite must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyRo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 2, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything you can ask of in a FPS. It is hard to stop playing once you get going. 
 
  
  As I first got the game, all i was doing was shooting and killing. But as I played more and more, 
 I began to work for badges, medals, and ribbons. If your the person who like to strive for something 
 to beat in a game, BF2 has it even though most people play it for the fun of it. I myself do both. 
 
  
  The gameplay is great! The game was layed out real well and makes you feel as if you are actually 
 going to battle whether it be with your squad or just yourself. 
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who wants a real good Tactical Shooter and it is worth the money! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7ranc3
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  It has been said and done before about this game, so really I am just adding my 2 cents. 
  
  Normally FPS is not my favorite genre, but after owning this game for over 10 months, it is 
 still one game I continue to play over and over again. 
  
  After having bored years ago of standard deathmatch, CTF, etc and Counterstrike, I gave up this 
 genre as a dead one. Then comes along this game with balanced squad play, quick and furious action 
 and balance in a way not seen before in FPS. If you play the game the way it was designed, with 
 a clan in a balanced group, following orders, there is little else out there that can capture the 
 exhilaration of this game. 
  
  Play in a ladder tournament and you almost feel like it is you crawling in the sand trying to take 
 out a tank or calling in a fire strike from your jet as y ou go on to take out the next objective 
 or protect your own assets.
  
  If you have even a passing interest in FPS and you have somehow passed this game up, then I highly 
 recommend that you upgrade your rig (this game demands a system with decent capabilities) start 
 practicing and join a clan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_zax
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 1, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I remember when it first came out. So wounderful, so sexy. I had to have it on release day.
  
  One warning Before a start, DO NOT BUY THIS GAME FOR 
 
  
  It's been close to a year now so I figured it was a good time to review BF2. I enjoy playing this 
 game for the most part. The controls are solid, the sounds is good, the graphics are awesome, and 
 the character classes are pretty well balanced. However if you are planning on buying this game 
 or have recently bought it, beware, you will get pwnd, alot, a whole lot, to the point you may 
 break things. And if you are playing this game some time, and start to think it feels alot more 
 like an arena style free for all shooter instead of a war simulator, you're not alone.
  
  They have made great strides with their Patches to prevent bunny hopping, and other insanely far 
 fetched annoyances, but there is still much to do. I guess if you want a real combat SIM you should 
 just play Counter Strike, or GRAW, or wait till the insurgency Mod comes out on Steam.
  
  If you want a "realisticish" war sim with alot of arena-style combat, pick up Battlefield 2. But 
 please practice alot, cause no one wants to hear you piss and mone about gettin' pwnd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 1, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is an extremely fun game. It is entertaining in many fronts and it great in all fronts. 
 The sound is fantastic, the graphics are great and the gameplay is highly addictive. The lifespan 
 can go on and on. This is defiently one of the funnest games to play on the web and everyone that 
 owns this game would most likely agree.
  
  You can play as a varity of different characters. They are all different types of soldiers. They 
 all carry different weapons and some are specific to that character. The landscapes that you play 
 on are really brilliant and they get even bigger when you are playing with lots of people online. 
 Battlefield 2 is one of the best games of 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaiderRadeon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  Once you get into the realism of the battle you know you picked up a good game. It's all around 
 a good game the game play makes you want to come back for more.. The look and feel of the game 
 is great.. 
  This one makes use of the heli's great and the shooting system is good. When you come back it always 
 feels like a new battle. 
  But the best parts are the online play, ranking system, and commander position. The squad leader's: 
 Attack, Move, Defend on the minimap is a big help to use team work in the game. It's a must buy, 
 play it with friends and u'll have a great time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x26745
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 31, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  ========
  The large diversity of vehicles that you can operate makes you admire how creative the warfare 
 is. This great feature cannot be found in many other games, which makes it more attracting. Thou 
 it does take quite some time to master some vehicles, I think this is a great attribute (gives 
 it a realistic feeling) . The range of seven kits to play only adds on to this great game, letting 
 you experience many different game-play strategies. And even though there is a nice little section 
 of maps to play with, it does get a little repetitive at times. But all of which is quite fun to 
 endure. 
  
  The many large battlefields in which you can play on just add on to the realistic feeling you having 
 playing this and all this space is needed to tear through the battlefield with vehicles, boats, 
 and aircraft. But all of this does come at a cost. To experience this game to the fullest you would 
 need a good system, not to mention a very good internet connection. These large areas does make 
 it frustrating at times when you have to cover large distances. Another example is when you are 
 evacuating a plane before it is obliterated, only to find yourself in the middle of the ocean with 
 a long swim ahead. You could just suicide, but this equals in loss of points. Yet this only proves 
 to be a problem in multi-player games.
  
  The other realistic portions of the game are quite pleasing. The aiming system of some guns is 
 like eye candy to me =) . You are shown the gun when aiming as you would see it in real life. Vehicles 
 are designed so realistically that one might think you are actually controlling it. The only flaw 
 in this is how the aircraft, or the "jet," was constructed. I do not know if it is just me, but 
 controlling aircraft is extremely different from aircraft simulators, which is unsatisfying. I 
 also enjoy the killing system with the basics, sniper kills in one or to hits, while an assault 
 rifle can take three to six shots. Oh, and not to mention a feature which I strangely find most 
 appealing to the game, the interference. Shooting between the cracks of stairs can equal a bloody 
 trap, not a invisible wall in which nothing can go through. You can also crawl under almost anything 
 the looks like it can be crawled under (given the exception of poor interference of rocks, trees, 
 etc.) . I do not know if it is just me, but I have never seen this in another game. 
  
  I am also personally fond of the ranking system set up online. This encourages me to play harder 
 to earn awards and to put down those who are under me in rank =P.
  
  Graphics
  =======
  The graphics were quite good but seem to have been delayed due to its large environment. The standards 
 still met thou, exactly what one might expect out of a recent game. You can be quite satisfied 
 with the graphics if you put it to the fullest, but this can only be done with recent computers. 
 
  
  Sound
  ===== 
  I was a little disappointed with the sound. Its all the sounds you one might expect, but nothing 
 more. Yet it might not be a good idea to put massive amounts of good-quality sounds to a game as 
 large as this. 
  
  Value
  =====
  49.99 does seem a little expensive, but is still fair (even though I only buy games that are on 
 sale) . 44.99 would have sounded like a reasonable price to me. But you will be addicted to this 
 game for a long time so the price does not matter.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt
  ============
  I can see why most people think this is a remarkable game. I can also agree with those who disapprove 
 of this game. The flaws can make it quite frustrating at times to play. Yet I would definitely 
 recommend this game to many people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shoemaken1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is easy to lave and hate. When everything is tweaked, updated, and working correctly, 
 this game is the funnest game I've ever played.
  Positives:
  -very realistic and addictive combat
  -voip, squads, stats, medals, rankings make for a game 
 that is even funner to play online
  
  
  Complaints:
  -slow server browser
  -slow loading times (average about 1 minute, but this is too long)
  -no coop against AI. Single 
 player game is very small.
  -very temperamental when patching. I've had to reinstall this game at least 3 times.
  -patches 
 seem to create more problems than they solve.
  
  This game is just so good, its hard to believe that some very obvios flaws were not fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Hartsock
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  This is the master of all PC games and i think it breaks the barrier of the Computer. This game 
 asks for a lot from your PC but its worth it i mean its gameplay a lone is worth 50 bucks. Graphics 
 are great the sound is great and just about everything in this game is worth while. It will keep 
 you playing for hours. I play this all day and all a the night and i dont get bored with it. Great 
 Game everyone who can should buy it then play it and love it. People say that this is a horrible 
 game well screw them they just dont know what this game is made of. I have a friend who plays BFV 
 i liked BFV but he always thinks in multiplayer we play by the rules wtf you know damn but buy 
 battlefield 2 and play it i may c u online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  I am a total and utter Battlefield freak. It started a couple of years ago with BF1942 (which was 
 great) then onto BF Vietnam (which was fantastic) and now BF 2 which I have played every day since 
 its release. 
  
  It is quite simply stunning.
  
  Th graphics are probably the best for a war sim around with a large number of settings so you can 
 get the best out of your PC. I specifically upgraded my PC so I can play at 1280x1080 on high settings. 
 I got an AMD64 3000 CPU and a 6800GT graphics card and added 2 gig of ram, and hey presto the game 
 of my dreams.
  
  I cant describe the satisfaction of winning a 64 player game. Its just great. To beat 64 other 
 brains else where in the world Just superb. Then to add to the fascination you get upgrades and 
 a ranking system with points and a rank. Its daft I know, but every day I look at my rank to see 
 how far I am to getting promoted. It cracks me up. Then on the points rank system I am at something 
 like position 134,001, and I am happy Imagine what the person at Number 1 (call sign blazinuk 
 @ time of writing) feels like. A brit. Makes me proud to see him above the yanks
  
  The squad system works well too. You join a squad (up to 6 people I think) , there is a squad leader 
 who normally calls the shots, calls artillery, nav sat, ammo drops and such. You can spawn on him, 
 or a base. The squad leader with a full squad can drop back a little while the other members spawn 
 on him and can move into a base to take over quickly (5 on a base is a very quick take over) . If 
 any get hit and drop, they can respawn on the leader again. The squad can be made up of different 
 soldier types with different skills and weaponry, Gunner (ammo) , Medic (guess) , Engineer (repair) , 
 Spec Ops (remote bombs) . A squad in a convoy of armour be they tanks, humvees or APCs with repair, 
 ammo and medic capability is unbeatable. The yanks are particualary good at this. I been in a few 
 squads run by yanks with voice over the net on, and they rock. Communication truly is key.
  
  Air attack is great as well. With a number of helicopters and airplane to use. I am mnot so 
 hot with these, but a squad in helicopter can move very fast and take over the world quickly.
 
  
  Sniping is great fun. Theres nothing like parking your arse in a good spot and shooting people 
 from
  distance. The get so wound up because they just spawn and then get hit from god knows where. Great 
 fun.
  
  Single player is ok, and good for training. Just a little boring as the made are small. Give me 
 live and thinking bait any day.
  
  Patching was a major problem. Every patch I had upto 1.21 was a problem, but they have finally 
 resolved this issue and now patching is easy as pie and is done 1st time. Thanks for that.
  
  The Xbox version I am sorry to say (although I only played the demo) was fun, but not a patch 
 on the PC. I truly hope that the Xbox 360 version is of the same calibre as the PC. I have it on 
 order and will post a review as soon as I can.
  
  If you havent got this game and you want to try online multiplayer gaming in a current 2006 war 
 setting then BUY THIS GAME.
  
  PS.
  
  Have I mentioned I like the game?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armor_Key
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 30, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Especially if you try this one, especially online. One of the best online war games in my opinion. 
 If you tired of shooting your opponents on foot, why don't try to ram him or shoot him from a vehicle, 
 it's really that fun. Play this game game online wont bore you for hours, unless somebody comes 
 with cheats or is very annoying. Also single player isn't bad either. 
  Graphics are really good, also the sounds too, guns sound like guns, and the voices are great too, 
 you can actually hear them from the distance, especially bullets.
  I can't this anything bad, the replay value is really high when you notice, that you can collect, 
 like badges, ranks etc. This game sure can entertain you for may hours, days, months or even years.
 
  Nice job! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crunchy_strike
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 11:16 pm PT
Review:  The game gets preety repeating after you have unlocked all of the weapons but never the less, it 
 is still the best first person shooter warfare game ever designed, although it has some of its 
 flaws, it is still the best of its kind on the market. The problem EA has made with this release 
 is the same it made with BF1942, so many bugs. If EA was to remove the bugs from BF2 it would be 
 golden, hopefully, with the upcoming patches, they are getting to the fact where they hunt down 
 big quantities of bugs and correct them. But on top of it all, good job EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mimic-Denmark
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Been a battlefield fan since i first tried the battlefield 1942 demo with a friend in lan. This 
 game is very mainstream so many people can join the acion and have fun, hence its huge popularity. 
 This game simple is Fun, every man or women who likes action and dont need it to be to realistics 
 can easily join the frontline. The Battlefield games and UT games have from their first game in 
 their series keept being my 2 number 1 online games. And the battlefield games has something for 
 all, the huge freedoom to go where you want on the map, play the charecter kit that suits you best. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Mandos-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a extraordinary good game! With so many maps and weapons, you'll never get bored. 
 Even if you do, the immersing stats system will latch on to you and never let go. The squad system 
 makes a new level of teamwork possible, especially with the new features of reviving, and points 
 for teamwork. Only EA's poor judgement and patching hinders this masterpiece. A great shame was 
 created in the VOIP system that is intigrated witht the game. This system rarely works, you would 
 be best off to use teamspeak. Battlefield 2 is a great game reguardless of these errors. Be warned! 
 Once you begin playing it, you might not ever stop 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilzone
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  Can't believe I blew 50 bucks for this ****. I gave up on it in a month, after my computer crashed 
 time and time again. PLEASE don't waste your time; the game slows down your computer so it takes 
 3 minutes to load Gamespot. Even though it's very fun, you'd best leave it unless you have an Alienware 
 PC. Still, I can only imagine of how good the game must be for Play Station 2 as I watch the bar 
 advance slowly to load the game...  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] . 
  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] .  ] . 
  ] .  ] 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daht
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The environements, sound, graphics make you feel as though you are in the battle. 
 The basic battlefield format is still in use. With the choose class and it has certain weapons which 
 are usually the same kind of weapons the class would use in real life. EX. Support uses Chain machine 
 gun, Special Ops uses a scoped M4 (assault Rifle) , and so on. Somethings which i think is weird 
 is that when ur in a tank and Artillery hits you it does no damage. Helicopters can shoot u with 
 a missile and you get blown up, easily.
  ON a good note. The Multiplayer is fantastic. As long as your ping never really raises to high 
 its a blast. What i'd recommend if your commander, usually stay in one area with a roof so you 
 aren't artilleried and command UAV, Personnel Scan, and your own arty along with supplie drops. 
 Which Repair tanks and other vehicles, heal nearby opponents, and Reload any ammo for any nearby 
 troops. Thats right the other team can use them to. Usually you'd send them wherever most of your 
 troops are or where you think they would go to get the Flag at the outposts. The flying system 
 has changed a tiny bit, the airplanes and helo's are a little more sensative. I thought after playing 
 this game for a long time, they should have added more teams to this game. All you get is USMC 
 (United States Marine Corps) , MEC ( Middle-Eastern Coalition) , and Chinese. Every map has the USMC 
 army against either on of the others. Unless your Special Forces expansion pack. You get 7 new 
 armies i think. Don't get it though no one plays it anymore online. Overall: Fantastic I recommend 
 buying it if you liked Battlefield 1942 you'll likethis and if you never played 1942 then you'll 
 like this if you like massive online shooters. Don't buy it for single player. The AI SUCKS. IF 
 you take one shot at them even if you miss they know exactly where you are no matter what difficulty.
 
  Still Fantastic go buy it, you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheezyt
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  this game was terrific. It is very interesting and full of so much action. A great army game. Soon 
 as I played this I was connected to this game. I think this game is interesting because you can 
 ride the tank. The online mode is perfect too. I like going online and going against my friends 
 and winning. The story mode is fun too. This game is kind of hard because you have to get use to 
 the controls. Other than that this game is great. This game is worth buying. I hope they come out 
 with Battlefield 3 and it is even better. I also cain't wait to battlefield 2 come out for Xbox 
 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 27, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  When Battlefield 1942 came it, it was the talk of the gaming world. One of the first games to successfully 
 integrate vehicle based combat with infantry combat. Now comes the second helping.
  
  The smart thing was done when they took the Desert Combat feel and went with it. This seems to 
 be a very popular feel these days and it paid off big time. Although the game is short on Single 
 Player, the Multi player game is where it's at. With up to 64 gamers on one field it makes for 
 some excellent combat. The vehicles are awsome, the weapons are great and the sound used in game 
 is excellent.
  
  My only gripes with the game are that EA had to be stingy and only allow for ranked servers to 
 be created on "thier" server network. Meaning you have to pay an arm and a leg for a ranked server. 
 And ranked servers are where it's at. With new rankings, you are able to unlock new weapons to 
 chose from on the battlefield. This make for some interesting combinations of firepower on the 
 battlefield. With the addition of squads, teamwork can really become a factor in winning the game. 
 The addition of a commander mode is a nice addition but getting pummeled by artillery can get tiresome 
 fast. 
  
  All in all this is a great game that really improves upon it's success with Desert Combat. This 
 one will go down as a classic when all is said and done. I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecordioli
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  A must play if you like internet multiplayer hide and kill games, with a lot of strategy options 
 and lot of weapons to choose. Out of all of them strike at karkand is the best. I would say that 
 I will certainly buy the expansions of this game because for me it is perfect. I am sure that my 
 neighbour is not liking it because I put my 7.1 sound system and the maximum level and bum-bum 
 -pa ! There are hardly any flaws. think the coolest thing about this game is the way it incorperates 
 vehicles seemlesley and they are not too overpowering. All and all this is one of the best online 
 war FPS ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  If your planning on getting this for its single player compartment... think again. Single Player 
 wise it is very poorly done and there is no story just a "Quick battle"mode. Online wise there 
 is a very fun rankingstructure and even more fun awards strucutre. The voice talking is amazing, 
 the unique ability of the "rock paper scissors"" of each vehicle vs vechicle vs weapon is very 
 well done. A ton of glithchs however that are being worked on. It is THE BEST team online shooter 
 since team fortress classic. So it depends what your looking for. If you love online play, then 
 you wont be dissapointed as long as you have a med-high range system. This game will draw some 
 gammers into a level of play they never before seen... the "clan" but more or less a decent game. 
 Too much ephasis on multiplayer. Not enough time in development, however... still fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: essam24
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  Simply the most jaw dropping fps game I've ever seen. It's play time is long lasting, as you will 
 play it non stop, making it almost like an mmorpg game, rather than an online shooter. It's graphics 
 are just stunning, as you see just how good reflections and lighings are. It's indeed a powerful 
 game, so you will need the best stuff for your pc to run this monster. The best thing about it 
 is.... EVERYTHING. I sweat to god, this is the closest you can get to a real battlefield as you 
 fight your way through and with REAL PLAYERS as they play as your enemies and allies (brothers) 
 in the battlefield. I also like to describe this game as grand theft auto gone fps, because you 
 do pretty much any thing. It's just a big battlefield, and there's so much to do. You can help 
 people capture bases, u can defend bases, u can give support from the air and ground, you can act 
 as a medic and help people, the numbers of ways to play is ENDLESS!!! You play the way you want 
 to play it, and there are so many possibilities. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HugoFromBoss
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 3:17 am PT
Review:  To put it simply this is one of best games I own. If you like teamwork and talking to strangers 
 online, buy it now.
  
  There are loads of different soldier types to choose from, snipers to support gunners, and each 
 of these have different weapons to be unlocked. The ranking system is great too; you can see how 
 you compare with BF2 player from around the globe. You are also awarded medals for your performance, 
 and you can progress through the ranks, from private to sergeant etc. The only negative about the 
 online ranking system is that I suck sometimes and my K: D goes through the roof : (.
  
  Vehicle wise, there are loads, from buggies to fast jets. The aircraft can be a little frustrating 
 at first, but once you get the hang of them, they are great fun.
  
  When playing the game, you can either go "lone wolf", or join a squad within you main team. When 
 in a squad, you can use a microphone to talk to your team-mates, which makes the game a lot more 
 fun, especially if you need help, or spot an enemy unit! The team can also have an overall commander, 
 who gives out orders to the squad leaders to carry out objectives etc.
  
  Graphics wise, its stunning. This is the first game I have played where camouflage actually works. 
 The water looks amazing, especially the wash from helicopters, and the reflection of the sun. But, 
 these graphics come at a price. I think that the specs on the box are a little too low for what 
 you actually need. My system is at least double on every factor, but I can run it on full graphics. 
 Before you buy, make sure your graphics card is supported by the game though, as it is a bit picky 
 on what cards it can run on. Check BF2's website for more info.
  
  Like I said at the beginning, I cant get enough of this game, its just brilliant.
  
  Oh yes, 
 this game runs well on my setup  this is also to make anyone reading this review feel bad  LOL
 
  
  P4 3.0 GHz (clocked to 4.0 Ghz)
  7800GTX SLI (core 500Mhx RAM 1.2 GHz)
  2x Western Digital Raptors
  Asetek Water Chill (Trip Radiator)
  1Gb Corsair (2x512) DDR2-5400UL 
 2x64Mx64, non-ECC 240 DIMM, unbuffered, 3-3-2-8, L/T Warranty
  CoolMaster Stacker
  HP 
  Saitek Gaming Keyboard
  Copperhead Razor mouse
  20" LCD 
 Screen
  Logitech Z500 5.1 Speaker System
  580W Tagan
  ASUS P5ND2-SLi Deluxe
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PCschoolorebel
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is the best FPS of the year. Most FPS games that came out this year were pretty good 
 but too short, Battlefield 2 has endless replay value especially if you play on ranked servers. 
 When I got the game it wasn't that great because it was so glitchy but since the patches came out 
 it is the most addicting game ever. If you have a high-end computer, like alienware, I recommend 
 this so much more. the games graphis are incredible even by PC standards. The commo rose thingy 
 is great and apparently the games a lot better with VOip. The games weapons are pretty good when 
 you first start out but they get so much better when you unlock new ones. Heres a tip: play assault 
 until you rank up and then unlock the DAQ 12 for Anti-tank and stay as anti-tank 'cause theres 
 a tank on every level. The commander position is pretty cool but not my taste. I recommend joining 
 a squad as soon as you start the game (the squad leader is a walking spawnpoint. Practice flying 
 in singleplayer before doing it online or you'll crash a lot. When you get the game install the 
 patches right away (all of the servers use 'em now) . The games vehicles are awesome. If you've got 
 50 bucks burning a hole in your pocket buy this game, if you don't than get a jod you hobo. : ) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  This idea is a good one. As you enter a zone as one side or the other, your objective is to sieze 
 the enemy base as quick as can be. Why is it therefore, not a one player only? See the internet 
 is an amazing place, but no one has ever really made a decent game on the net. So this for me is 
 low class. I also catagorize this as what I like to call a BOD game. Basicaly it was made not by 
 someone who wanted to make a gooad game, but by people who wanted to make money. so for me, this 
 game is below par. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heromoua
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Simply the most jaw dropping fps game I've ever seen. It's play time is long lasting, as you will 
 play it non stop, making it almost like an mmorpg game, rather than an online shooter. It's graphics 
 are just stunning, as you see just how good reflections and lighings are. It's indeed a powerful 
 game, so you will need the best stuff for your pc to run this monster. The best thing about it 
 is.... EVERYTHING. I sweat to god, this is the closest you can get to a real battlefield as you 
 fight your way through and with REAL PLAYERS as they play as your enemies and allies (brothers) 
 in the battlefield. I also like to describe this game as grand theft auto gone fps, because you 
 do pretty much any thing. It's just a big battlefield, and there's so much to do. You can help 
 people capture bases, u can defend bases, u can give support from the air and ground, you can act 
 as a medic and help people, the numbers of ways to play is ENDLESS!!! You play the way you want 
 to play it, and there are so many possibilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jims-Kid
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games i have ever played in my life. This game has the best multiplayer 
 ever!!!!!!!! There are hardly any flaws. Nothing a patch can't fix. The weapons are cool except 
 for the MEC sniper rifle (1st one) , it sucks. But everything is cool. Out of all of them strike 
 at karkand is the best. 12 out of 10. all of the other levels i give a 7 out of 10. except for 
 the gulf of oman, 8 out of 10, and maybe mashtuur city a 7.5 out of 10. But this game is excellent. 
 The only real problem is the ranks, it doesn't promote u right away after u have been promoted 
 (??????) . But this game is cool.
  
  ps- special forces is pretty good too. check my review for it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfjeNL
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 23, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, it really is. The graphics are good and the sound rocks, I think that the 
 sound really make you feel like you're really in a battle, sounds like over flying jets or heli's 
 especially do this. The big change of this game compared to previous Battlefield game is that this 
 game plays in modern combat situations and the previous parts played in the past, like Vietnam 
 or WW2. The single player in this game is a bit disappointing but the multi player is great. You 
 can battle against 64 man in one map. This game is a absolute must have for first person shooter 
 lovers and people who like war games. Battlefield 2 is clearly the best in series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrngod
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 31, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  This game is a complete waste. I am shocked at how completely horrible this sequel to Battlefield 
 1942 is. It looks terrific and sounds great, but the gameplay is an absolute killer of the entire 
 game. I promise/guarantee that %95 of your deaths will come from artillery. Nothing screams Unfun 
 more than spending 50 minutes per hour waiting for your spawn time to get to 0 so you can die again. 
 Here is the situation: You and your squad have just started a new round and are making your way 
 to the next flag by taking cover, having suppressing fire, sniper cover and the works.... THEN boom.. your 
 entire squad is wiped out by artillery. Wow.. what entertainment. 
  
  My biggest gripe about this game is the "unlocking" of kits. Now when you think about this type 
 of system in a shooter like this, at first it seems like a great idea and motivation to play more. 
 What it ACTUALLY means, is that you will suffer a lot before you can unlock your first kit. You 
 essentially will a running target for a long time until you can manage to unlock a kit, and when 
 you DO unlock a kit, you will not stand a change unless you constently are playing that kit. I'm 
 sorry... did I pay $50 so I can NOT have fun playing a game? O my mistake... I didn't realize that 
 is what spending money gets me. I consider this a design flaw. I just don't have the time to sit 
 and play +100 hours before it becomes fun. Battlefield 1942 didn't require any unlocking at all, 
 and that game was a lot of fun. I will never understand why game makers seem to think that people 
 who sit in front of their computer 24/7 should be rewarded in any way by giving them an advantage 
 when they clearly should already have an advantage just by the fact that they have a lot more experience 
 playing the game. O but heaven forbid some uber leet nerd should ever get upset that a Noob killed 
 them in the game.
  
  They should have just cut out the FPS portion of the game and had everyone automaticall spawn in 
 vehicles. I've "attempted" to play about 15 hours+ of this game so far hoping that it will get 
 better. It has not... this game is complete garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nalanji
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely EXCELLENT! The graphics, and the scenerys that the game provides are absolutely 
 amazing. This game has the best maps BAR NONE! The textures are amazingly perfect and the other 
 players, and AI characters look perfect. The only thing. Your computer needs to be a NASA Super 
 computer and have the blood of God himself to run properly. For most machines, this game will absolutely 
 chug. My computer just makes the reccomended stats, it definitely chugs. Unfortunitely, too much 
 to give it top marks. The others like me know what i'm talking about. Definitely check this game 
 out anyways though :)
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zakulmen
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  
  One word: Overhyped.
  
  I finally, after people kept telling me to get Battlefield 2, decided to actually get it. My PC 
 can run it, but not very well, which is what turned me away from getting it despite being a gigantic 
 Battlefield 1942 fan. Checking the screenshots though, its more than clear that the graphics are 
 absolutely amazing . . . which leads me to believe thats its really just a flashy game.
  
  Even after almost an entire 9 month period of its relase, EA has only been able to make TWO half-decent 
 patches, none of them fixing any of the major bugs. To add to this, they are constantly dishing 
 our Expanion/Booster Packs to the game, creating even MORE bugs for them to fix, which they seem 
 to fail to do. A major bug created by the Special Forces Expansion is flashbangs, which have the 
 tendency to get you even when you are in a vehicle. This includes Helicopters, so when your tilting 
 fowards, you tend to suddenly get blinded. Not only this, but they go through walls for God sakes. 
 How bad is EA to completely overlook COLLISION, thats not minor in any way.
  
  Balance issues are another thing. This includes kits, weapons, and vehicles. The MEC Attack Helicopter 
 has a rotary 'Anti-tank' weapon . . . that kills any infantry in one-hit and seems to fire at 3000RPM. 
 It also does little to no damage to armoured vehicles, making its purpose pointless. The transport 
 helicopters all have side-weapons poking out of the side. They all over-heat at the exact same 
 speed, except for the American Blackhawk Vulcan Cannon, which overheats SLOWER (Time wise) , fires 
 at 5000RPM, and kills in two shots. Its also almost precisely accurate. The gameplay is VERY exploited 
 by players, who take advantage of any and all small glitches, bugs, or otherwise that may help 
 them through the game for Global Points.
  
  Compared to what I thought this game was, it is a complete and total let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bf2expert
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This is such a great game and it will with no dout go down in history. This games singleplayer 
 is the same as its multiplayer except for it is with bots. One of the coolest things about this 
 game is its ranking system you get points for playing on ranked servers and as those points accumulate 
 you can rank up unlock weapons and get badges. The multi player is soooo fun with VOIP out of the 
 box, up to 64 players online at a time on a single map up to 9 different squads the gameplay gets 
 hectic and absolutly fun. I think the coolest thing about this game is the way it incorperates 
 vehicles seemlesley and they are not too overpowering. All and all this is one of the best online 
 war FPS ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thought_1
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  BF2 is extremely ambitious, however they forgot about the simple stuff that makes a good game great. 
 Polish.
  
  Countless timess I am run over by parked cars and die. 
  THe aiming is terrible. 
  Whats up w not being able to kill someone from behind?
  
  Jumping? 
 Dont bother. I love how they have tried to create a CS style platforming (special forces specifically) 
 however, the engine doesnt support this type of play, nor can it support the smaller "intense" 
 SF maps (again mimicking CS)
  
  I just watched the 2142 trailer... maybe 100 years from now EA will have learned to balance air 
 power.
  
  granted, air power is far superior to anything on the ground. The gulf war (even WW2) proved the 
 value of air power over anything else.
  
  however with only 1 plane/helicopter per map... we are forced to wait, FF/TK or hide until it respawns.
 
  
  melee ensues... and again Im trapped ruuning building to building cowering from wildly overpowered 
 vehicls and armor.
  
  I love the fact that an Abrams can take 2-3 RPG/Tow shots and shrug them off.
  
  its a game, 
 I know that... then why cant I shoot straight?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmedabomb
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  BattleField 2
  
  GRAPHICS-10/10 Amazing Graphics, Not many games can match the graphics BF2 has. The Explosions look 
 Incredible. Character Models are very detailed, like the Gear on the characters moves when the character 
 moves.
  
  GAMEPLAY-9/10 The Guns are very detailed. The physics are very realistic. The community however could 
 be better since not many people use the squads and commander systems.
  
  Sound-10/10 The noises of gun fire are well done. The bangs don' t
  morph like do. The explosions 
 sound very real also.
  
  Value-10/10 This game has good value since the games are never the same, even on the same server. EA 
 adds news expansion packs every few months so there are more weapons, Vehicles, and Maps frequently.
 
  
  Overall-9.4/10 This game is a must have to any real PC gamers selections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvalancheRider
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This is actually my second review of this game after hearing that the patch fixed the air unit 
 problem. I'm going to say that overall the game is very good, but there are a few things I'd like 
 to see fixed:
  
  1. The game uses the Counter-Strike weapon kick method rather than the DoD/CoD method. That is, 
 your screen doesn't actually kick, your shots simply become progressively less accurate. I firmly 
 believe that this kick method is outdated and much prefer the way weapons kick in Call of Duty, 
 which enables a player who is good at controlling the recoil to fire off much more accurate shots.
 
  
  2. The medics can throw down a medkit which heals one person to full health instantly. I think 
 the game would be better if the medics had to actually sit and heal people.
  
  3. The game seems to be suffering from "firing cylinder" syndrome. That is to say that when you're 
 very close to an opponent your gun still seems to be able to wildly misfire and miss even though 
 the opponent is right in front of you, making your firing cone seem more like a firing cylinder. 
 Once again, this is a problem which the game shares with Counter-Strike.
  
  That said, there are a few things that I think are awesome:
  
  1. The game has an integrated 
 stats ranking system. As you rank up, you unlock more weapons you can use. The best thing is that 
 the unlockable weapons aren't strictly better than the default weapons; I frequently use the default 
 AK-101 for the medic class rather than the scoped assault rifle that you can unlock.
  
  2. There is an integrated commander system, placing some players in higher positions of authority 
 than others. Commanders can issue orders to squad leaders who can, in turn, issue orders to their 
 squads. Unfortunately, the playing population at large seems to be rather oblivious to this system 
 and tends to utterly ignore orders, which isn't a fault of the game itself.
  
  Ultimately, I'd say this game is a must-have if you enjoy multiplayer games in which you rely on 
 the skills of your teammates to win the game. If you prefer to be more of a lone wolf or hate having 
 to rely on the often meager skills of others, then this game becomes frustrating quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armando12345678
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best because of the nice engines and my computer can handle it i have a custom 
 made cpu Amd athlon X2 dual core 4200+ with crossfire 2 Ati Raedon X1900Xt and creative X-fi and 
 it works Fantastically i acutally feel like im in the game this game couldn't be any better its 
 the best you could get know a days the engines are amazing l l l l l l l l l l l k l k l k l k 
 l k l k l k l k l k l k l k l k l k l k l k l k l k l k l k l k l k 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcl1993
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is PERFECT!
  
  GREAT gameplay as well as online gameplay
  GREAT graphics
  GREAT sound
  a GREAT money worth game.
  
  This game is a prefect game it doesn't lack anything, 
 but lag
  which isn't really a factor since almost all games have lag
  here and there.
  This game is fun and high addictive!
  
  Truly why would you wait for a superb game?
  
  
 The graphics of the locations are very realistic, as well as the guns used.
  The cars, tanks, boats, helis, carrers, and airplanes are fun to use and to look at.
  The turrets 
 are great options machine guns, air defence, ground d,
  air and ground d, anit tanks and many more.
  
  The sound is excellent as well.
  
  This 
 game is worth EVERY DOLLAR!
  
  GO GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyyperfreak
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 has got to be the best online war FPS ive ever played.
  
  GAMEPLAY: once you get started you dont wanna stop playing this ausome game. The gameplay seems 
 to put you in a real battle. you have a diffrent choice of classes to pick from such as medic demolition, 
 assault etc. each class has there own special abiltitys and weapons.
  
  GRAPHICS: the only word i can use to descirde this is "Amazing" your definatly gonna need a god 
 graphics card for this one
  
  SOUND: sound quality is super good everythng has its own noise . my favorite sounds in the game 
 are the talking. Every team speaks ther own language, its so realistic.
  
  VALUE: Diefinatly worth hte money, also i recommend getting the expansion special forces wiht more 
 maps, teams and equipment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nanpanda
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 20, 2006 2:49 am PT
Review:  iv played this game for few months now and im addicted, its not just the gameplay and graphics 
 which make this game great, i love the fact of weapon upgrades and the fact you can go up ranks 
 and get medals etc.. makes you fell like you have earned it and the game has purpose instead of 
 just going around just shooting people.
  
  The game offers a lot of differnt kinds of things that you can do like jets and helis and all the 
 different kinds of vehicles you can drive. 
  
  But im sure im not the only person who feels this way it can be very anoying when u spawn and within 
 1 second you are taken out bye a heli jsut hovering around your flag or you spawn into artialry 
 strikes.
  
  but overall when your in a squad that moves together and are in good firefights the game offers 
 something no other game can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroid_16
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This game blew me away. I know, some of my other reviews have been bad (PGR3, PDZ, and DOOM) but 
 MAN this game roxorz.
  Gameplay: Awesome. I liked the idea of spawn points and capturing them and stuff, especially in 
 Star Wars BF (1 and 2) so I knew this game would be good. Graphics are amazing for a game of its 
 kind.. I spose it would look better ion my computer if I had a better graphics card ( somehow my 
 ATI X300 works :P)
  Sound? really good. Its funny to shoot someone to death and here MEDIC! or the sound ofa missile 
 from a tank. Value? for 39.99 CDN, HELLZ YEAH! this game is SO good. 
  There are a fwe bad things rthough. I havent found any glitches, but as always, tere are some really 
 annoying people and cheaters. People say the finding of servers is bad, but when there are almost 
 400 servers (with my restrictions on) , its hard t make a good chooser! just find a good one and 
 stuick with it, add it too yuor faves.
  Anywho, this game was awesomeazing. Go out and buy it NOW! and if you get pwned by Masjo16, youll 
 know it was me ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampira506
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  As I write this Ive owned Battlefield 2 since december, I own the Special Forces expansion pack 
 and the Euro Forces booster pack. With all the fancy adds ons and changes caused by numerous patches 
 Battlefield 2 is still one of the greatest games of all time and hands downt he best online first 
 person shooter (Bring it on CS fanboys!) .
  
  In the 130+Hours ive been playing Battlefield 2 ive experiences every feature that sets this apart 
 from anything else, The Flying, the commanding, squads, the numerous badges/medals/ribbons and 
 the promotions. The awards and promotions give this game so much replayability since there's almost 
 always something more to get, be it Expert Knife Combat or the ever elusive War College Ribbon.
 
  
  To all who have a rig that can run BF2 and even mildly enjoy first person shooters, BUY THIS GAME! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2o35
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 18, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  There is probably only one major factor that keeps this game so popular, and that is the competition. 
 In previous Battlefield games you could be a truly great player and even be the best of a server, 
 and own any bots, but you had nothing to show for it. In Battlefield 2, EA games introduced a ranking 
 system which gave everybody a status of how good they were. Some people take much pride in being 
 the best, and they play many hours to prove that they are. Me personally, I don't play the game 
 as much as some, but I still play it to eventually achieve higher rank. Besides that which keeps 
 us going, lets see what goes on while you play.
  
  The graphics for one are quite controversial, in a sense that, they really aren't amazing in most 
 cases. To experience the best graphics of Battlefield 2, which are definitely an appealing sight, 
 you need a very good video card, which is not in most people's budgets. I personally don't have 
 a very good video card at all, a "Radeon x600" which handles the game fairly on medium-low graphic 
 settings. But, assuming you are able to play the game on highest graphic settings, you will be 
 rewarded with eye candy. The visual effects are quite well done as well, for example when a helicopter 
 hovers low over a tree the branches will start shaking due to the wind force it has made.
  Sound of the game is also well done, with voice messages in the language of all 3 armies, as well 
 as notifications on your HUD mini-map.
  
  Besides sight and sound, the gameplay of Battlefield is well done because it features a large variety 
 of different skill-requiring tasks. If you are a good pilot in the game you would probably like 
 to fly alot but if you're more into Counter-Strike-type games in which you do lots of close combat 
 shooting then you can just stick to your rifle. There are different kits to choose from giving 
 you even more variety in close combat.
  
  If you like lots of non-stop action, Battlefield 2 is the game for you. Lots of combat and tactical 
 strategy in the game as well. If you've heard all the hype and aren't convinced, my recommendation 
 would be to give it a try, because you will probably become enjoyably addicted like so many others, 
 myself included. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim345
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  Out of the 4 games I have this one is prolly the one I go to (I know 4 isnt much but I still feel 
 I know what I'm talking about) .
  The graphics are really good, combined with the cool enviroment it lets feel the rich outdoors. 
 Which is really important to me.
  The gameplay is good, though more then just that control points game type would have been nice, 
 mabey some CTF (that would be insane.
  The sys requriements are high (i passed cause I got the best computer out there, but thats another 
 story: P.) but if you got the pc then go ahead and get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 18, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  Finally a game that you can play for hours and hours on singplayer and multiplayer. I espacially 
 like the numerous expansions/addons to BF2 and the vast array of weapons and vehicales. Also the 
 maps are farely well design and made but what it lacked was the amount of special "skills" each 
 soldier has but that was fixed by the expansion "BF2: Special Forces" but BF2 alone is a very good 
 game for all. I thank the makers of BF2 for keeping it real, I love the realistic phyisics and 
 movement. So i would say personally this is the game that must be in everyone's home.
  
  GAMEPLAY - 7/10 So so gameplay lacked a good campaign mode and also lacked different kinds of modes.
 
  
  GRAPHICS - 8/10 Rocks, the graphics is just lovely.
  
  SOUND - 9/10 Nice and realistic sounds.
  
  VALUES - 9/10 Worth every cent spent.
  
  REVIEWER'S 
 TILT - 10/10 A ideal game for me, a must have for all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaydough
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 18, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 has great gameplay, plus the commanding mode is a totaly flawless feature.
  But, Desert combat is about as good. The anti air tanks need to be able to shoot infantry, and 
 there is a desperate need for maps. If there were more countries like Afghanistan and any other 
 country at war with the USA there would be no need for any more maps. Also when I bought it it 
 said that I couldn't play online because I didn't have a cd code. I'm dumb! I can't pirate games. 
 EA is trying to steal my hard earned $49.99! Overall it good but a let-down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sayhimuffinman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  AvalancheRider you are obviously a noob and have no idea or what you are talking about.
  
  1. in BF 1942 medics could heal the people around them, so makes no difference.
  
  2. Commanders 
 are not mobile spawn points, squad leaders are. and only a max of 5 can spawn on the squad leader.
 
  
  3. The parachute thing is a bit unrealistic but it is way simpler than climbing down a ladder every 
 time.
  
  4 .Air units are NOT practically invulnerable. New patch as of about a month ago fixes that. Most 
 of the time now 1 missile hits 2end misses (2ed misses if you know what you are doing) and the 
 air units have a large reduction in health as of the patch. (two missile hits on a plane will kill 
 it)
  
  By the way, it only takes 2 hits from a tank to kill a helicopter, and 1 hit to kill a plane and 
 there is no such thing as "bonus armor" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fares_bytes
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I Think I am really lick cause I Didn't use any money on this game and I Love it, Graphics are So 
 Aewsome, Really rich and detailed with good lighting effects and great animations and physics, the 
 guns also look good with different look, sounds really well done too, you could hear helicopters 
 shooting, jets screamin through the air, guns blazing at soldiers, vehicles rattling at the groung, the 
 voice overs are good to but should had a lot more dialogues, gameplay is really awesome, to get the 
 best of this game, have a fast internet connection, each gun feels different, great command menu, vehicles 
 are easy to control, aircrafts really hard to get use to, but once you get the hang of it, you be 
 flying like a license pilot, Buy this game if you have a up-to-date pc and fast internet connection!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grown-cat
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is almost perfect. If it had awayto find a friend I would have given it a 10 instead 
 of a 9.9 But just log on the same serer and your fine. This game is sogreat they have almost fixed 
 this problem. Create a squad and have your friends join the squad and then you can spawn exactly 
 where the squad leader is.... just make sure he stays alive. Even if you don'tike first person 
 shooters than you will probably like this one. Sound is AWSOME!!!! It has a few glitches but they 
 are so minor most people will never even notice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cboy144
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  The previous entries in the Battlefield franchise simply do not compare to this awesome masterpiece 
 of a game. Its intensity is unrivaled. Twitch based encouters, the loud explosions of artillery, 
 the mad sound of a machine gun. Shooting in this game is about as fun as it gets. What Dice has 
 done exceptionally well is expand the teamwork features of this game. Now you rely on a medic to 
 revive you from battle (another excellent new feature) and health, support for ammo, and your squad 
 leader for a spawn point. The tactical level to this game involving the command mode couldn't be 
 more effective because of a player's resistance to following orders, but artillery and UAV more 
 than make up for any slight shortcomings of this mode. This is a game you cannot miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martin19900
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  This game would have been 100% PERFECT, if the patches and the server system had been better. 
 
  
  many people have problems with their patches, but i haven't had any problems. 
  But in the newest patch (1.21) they have removed the abillity to shoot while jumping witch i think 
 is one of the dumbest changes they have done. And they have also removed some of the rockets in 
 the helicopter, wich isn't good for those who like flying.
  
  I higly recommend this game and the expansion (s)
  
  and i also recommend that you have a good 
 router and more than a 1000kb/s
  broadband/internet, to avoyd EXTREME lagging and pingkicking...
  BAD ROUTER = LOTS OF LAGGING 
 and the message "there is a problem with your connection" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -daniel-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  I never played BF 1942 of BFV but when i heard the first time about BF2 i knew i got to have this 
 game.
  
  Suprisingly the creator of this godlike game was not other but EA. Afcourse i expexted this game 
 to be another failure but it show me.
  
  The single player campgien in the game is useless but its not what this game represent. This game 
 is all about multiplayer and killing players overseas.
  The varisety in the game is more than ubelievible. you can choose 8 diffrent kinds of soldiers 
 from medic to heavy gunner and each one has its unique weapons and skills. 
  There are also many many viehcles and chopers and planes you can use in the game. Just try to take 
 a f-35 to a ride and you will feel like you really in the sky touching the clouds and destroying 
 little enemy soldiers below.
  
  The sound is also good and adds to the non stop action. The grapichs is one of the best there is 
 but the engine of the game is too freakin heavy (!!!) .
  
  If you buy this game you will not regret and you will spend countless hours trying to take another 
 flag just before dinner.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: leelee_rocks
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 14, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  I have battlefield 1942 and i love it, but this game's game play quality just amazed me. It got 
 a while to get used to it but in truth it's like nothing else ever created before, and it's well 
 deserved. 
  
  In this new game in the battlefield series, EA have introduced squads and commanders. anyone can 
 create a squad and upto 6 people in total can be in each squad so there will be several squads 
 in an organized team. The commander position can be applied for any time in the game provided there 
 isn't already a person in that place. If there is, you have an option where you can vote to 'de-throne' 
 him and then you can replace him providing other people agree with your decision and vote against 
 him. Players with higher rank have the priority to commander position. 
  
  A commander has certain abilities which also enhance the game play. They can to scans to let them 
 see where the opponents on the field are, they can do supply drops to their team mates. They can 
 drop artillery strikes on the enemy, they can do a type of scan which reveals to the whole team 
 where any opponents are in a certain area. All of these abilities reload themselves over a short 
 (ish) period of time so although the commander can use as many as he wants, he must be cautious 
 in how he uses them so that they have maximum effect. All this and he can play as a normal soldier 
 on the battlefield aswell. And o yeh, if a team wins, the commander gets double the score he got 
 in the game.
  
  The commander through team speak can only communicate with the squad leaders and squad leaders 
 can only communicate to the commander and their own squad. The squad members can only team speak 
 to those within the squad. This creates a brilliant effect in a chain of command which isn't just 
 a random installment, it actually works. It also makes the squad a closer unit. No longer are there 
 lone-wolves roaming around the map, an organised, squad-based team has the advantage over a non 
 organized lone-wolf based team, it's just extremely annoying when your team is unorganized and 
 the other is completely the way a battlefield 2 team should be like.
  
  The kits are very balanced too. 7 kits which you can change every time you die or pick up someone 
 else's kit when they are dead. Each kit has its own advantages and weaknesses for example, the 
 medic has the ability to heal team members and revive members, but against armour they are forced 
 to hide and ask for back up. On the other hand, the anti-tank kit disposes of tanks with 2 or 3 
 direct hits to the rear but has no way to halp any dying team mates on the battlefield. This enhances 
 the use of a squad because within the squad you can have one of each kit except one which increases 
 the squad power incredibly.
  
  The game is based around control points (just like bf1942, i'm not sure bout the other bf games 
 cos i haven't played them) , and tickets. Everytime someone dies, a ticket is lost. The idea is 
 simple, take all the control points, or deplete your opponents' tickets to nought. If you have 
 more control points than the other team, their tickets go down faster. This i find is so much better 
 than games like medal of honor where you walk around like some super human getting objectives to 
 control your every move. The idea is to win the battle, they don't care how, just win it. Obviously, 
 as i have explained there are ways to give your team the advantage in the game as well as many 
 others.
  
  Land, see and air vehicles have been installed as well which enhance the game play incredibly. 
 A chopper in the right hands can wreak havoc all around the battlefield where as the rubber dingies 
 are the perfect secret vehicle to go round and behind the enemy to take him from behind.
  
  Maps can be played on 3 sizes, 16, 32 and 64 player. The higher the player map size you choose, 
 the more of the mop you reveal and the more control points there are to take. It's amazing how 
 much variation in map types there are. There's the urban streets of 'strike at karkand' and then 
 the vast rural environment of 'fushe pass' and even the variation in gameplay within each map is 
 amazing. It could go from an all out battle with all 64 players fighting for one control points 
 to a spread out game with firefights going on all over the map.
  
  i could go on for ages talking about the gameplay but i'll just let you find out for yourself if 
 you buy this game which i strongly recommend.
  
  And that is just the game play. The graphics on this game are incredible. Yes they do require a 
 good computer system but if you have one the rewards are amazing. Even playing the game on lowest 
 graphics quality challenges most games out ont he market. Boost the quality to medium and there 
 is a huge leap. Alleyways become darker, the glass off the helicopters would reflect off the light 
 unbelievably realistically, your gun becomes more detailed, you can see so much further and so 
 many other things as well. Highest graphics quality is just amazingly good as well although you 
 will need a very good computer system to play that.
  
  All in all, this game is a more than worthy sequel to its predecessors. i'd say it's one of the 
 greatest fps games of all time and I'm not going over the top.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: diesel_dejavu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  BF2 is an addictive, online FPS that just barely misses the mark as "best FPS ever." The load times 
 are way too long even on a 2GB DDR athlon64 4000+ machine. The graphics and sounds are first rate. 
 When a bomb, arty, or grenades drops near by it really seems like in your in the action. But lag 
 is ever present and always in the most inopportune time (when your flying a heli full of troops) 
 causing you to crash and earn you snide remarks from teammates. The servers are free to join unless 
 you want to start your own private club-like setting with your own rules. This is a welcome relief 
 if your use to monthly fees a la WoW or the like. The rank and award system is cool aspect too. 
 The combat is pretty easy topick up if you've played similar FPS, but it takes a while to good 
 enough to take down the craftier players without a little luck. The game is very good and shouldnt 
 be passed over. I just cant get past that dreaded lag and long load times. I recommend playing 
 this only on higher-end machines (1GB RAM minimum, 2.5 Mhz, 256MB video) , anything less will just 
 frustrate you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christofo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  One of the best online mulitplayers out and will be very hard to beat. The 64 player maps are amazing 
 and great fun, you can work really well with people who you don't know and from all over the world. So 
 many differant maps from around the world and with all of the kits and transport you will blow 
 your way around. love the game. The only let downs are the patches and some of the language online. 
 If you loved the bf1942 series then u will love this, there is a veriaty of things to do, and i 
 only recomend it to people who have the internet because with out the internet it can be a bore.
 
  BF2  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stasis416
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 13, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  It's a well polished great game.. It can however get boring after a few hours of play. You pretty 
 much need a joystick to fly any of the planes or helicopters with any success. There is also some 
 "chesse" factor you can easily implement. If you make youself the commander you can pick the spot 
 of your supply drops via plane.. So get in a tank, have your supply drop, drop a resupply box next 
 to your tank and it auto refills your ammo.. So you can sit there and blow stuff up with your missles 
 etc, and get them auto refilled. 
  
  The hand held weapons aren't very accurate, not like CS. I found that I had to pump many rounds 
 into someones chest before they dropped.. 
  
  Overall a good game for those who love this genre, but IMO there are better options out there and 
 I regret paying retail for it. I should have waited for it to fall into the bargin bin.. 
  
  Online play is where its at 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 22111993
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  Wow. This game is really something. It isnt really much of a comparison to 1942 since the gameplay 
 action is so much smoother and better. Its not the type of game that you would get sick of either, 
 you can play endlessly online. I really want this!
  It's perfection. The smoothness and effects are almost too real, and although it has great squad/commander 
 settings, none of that full on hardcore gaming experience has been lost. Love the vehicles too.
 
  This just freaks me out since i have a good card. The skies, the buildings, the vehicles, the 
 player detail, everything about the graphics is definitly not something you will ever, ever get 
 sick of or complain about, although you will need good hardware. It doesn't even twitch or screw 
 up, even in the midst a 62 player battle.
  I love the effects and the way it supports teamplay... Not much to say about the sound exept that 
 its also amazing and, like everythig else, 10 outta 10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Griff767
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 12, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2. I play this game every day. Great ranking system. Easy for noobs and nerds and noob-nerds 
 Great vehicle mechanics. Laggy at times. One bad thing is you gotta pay for servers. Sniping is 
 fun. Shooting is fun. Driving is fun. Flying is fun. Loads of cool mods. THe mic system is really 
 cool. But sadly no one uses them. OR if they do they speak in german, or frnech, or klingon. THis 
 review is helpful and you know it!. If you actually read this my final opinion is next! I gave the 
 best mostly online first person shooter, BATTLE FIELD two A A STOUNDING NEIN point! TU! (9.2) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper0993
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain amazing! I've been a huge fan of the Battlefield series. Sure, BF: Vietnam 
 had its let downs compared to the other Battlefield games, but its still awesome. Battlefield 2's 
 visuals push it above the rest. These graphics are worth spending $500 or more to get the max out 
 of it. The game-play is insane. For the guns-blazing people, you've got it. For the stealth people, 
 you've got it. From the 16-player servers to the 64-player servers, the fun never stops. Except 
 when you come across the occasional bugs. They may set you off, but just keep playing and enjoy 
 it. This is easily the best game I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: animekakashi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 11, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  If you have a good computer for game's then this is one of the game's to get. BattelField 2 for 
 the PC. You can do alot of stuff you can do in the game to fight off your friends or anime. Like 
 going into a tank with 3 to 4 of your friends, blowing stuff up and going into a Air plane or fly 
 a Helicopter, bombing people or othere plans that are after your Team Teammates. 
  
  This game has alot of Vehicles and alot of Guns to pic but you have to do ranking games to unlock 
 the guns. But the ranking sistem is ok . You have to play it alot to rank up and to unlock the 
 guns. when you rank up you can control a team when you have a certain Rank. 
  
  I played alot of games in my life and Battle field 2 has some big maps. Some times i get lost in 
 some of them just trying to find some one to kill :)
  But when you play it alot, you get to no where everything is, so it's all good.
  
  30 Vehicles 
 And 20 Soldier kits 
  
  16, 32, 64 player in a server 
  
  "Man" Think about playing A game with 30 vehicles and up to 64 players spawning all over the place 
 trying to control the flag. Now thats a war :) lol
  
  I love the designs and the graphics in the game are good. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordGoo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  I think it was about time developers finally came out with a Modern combat game, this game is everything 
 now that, only other gamers where able to bring to like-games. Games are made in a world of today 
 I think its nice that they reflect todays world. 
  
  This game just that, although admttingly at a very high price. I wasn't able to launch my copy 
 till I got my 256MB card. This game is not for the low ended crowd, and I don't know anyone that 
 truely enjoys running this game with minimum specs. 
  
  But if you have the gear, and you liked BF1942 or any decent popular FPS then I dare say you can't 
 go wrong with this game. 
  
  I's recommend this game to any FP2 Lover who can handle the heat this beast demands. 
  
  Enjoy
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whgresiak
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Well when i got this... i was excited. It was a great game with great graphics, amazing sound, 
 and a good community. Since then... not so much.
  
  A bunch of people got it for Christmas and whatnot and all they do is smacktalk, TK for BS, TK 
 to get a chopper or plane and are just plain general @$$holes. The game is great... dont get me 
 wrong, just i would rather play SP with a bunch of bots than play online with ****
  
  review Lowdown
  
  Teh Good-
  Great Graphics, sound and gameplay
  
  Teh Bad-
  Takes 
 a long time to log in and the server browser pretty much sux
  
  Teh ugly-
  Lots of bastards playing online that are general @$$holes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yomanboby
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I was having fun just playing 1942, But then I got my hands on this one and it was Awesome!
  Even though I had to drop the quality of the game a lot I was still having a bunch of fun with 
 it, (Off-Line) 
  And then when I finally got my account for the online gameplay it was even better! The performance 
 was about the same online as off-line, so I end up playing online a lot more the Off. Playing with 
 other people makes it more fun simply because real people will acctually respond when you ask for 
 a Medic....=)
  The Graphics are superb!
  Squads add a whole new aspect to the game!
  Arttillery can be very helpful and very annoying at times, Simply because, getting blown up all 
 of a sudden is not that much fun....
  The ability to go up in rank is another awesome feature, along with the punk Buster, I hate playing 
 with people who use cheats. But thanks to the punk buster I dont have to worry about that anymore.
 
  Hit detection can seem a little off somtimes, but not that much so it can be excused....
  I'm not all that crazy about piloting simply because it is very hard to fly with a mouse, and I 
 don't want to have to switch betwwen my controler and my mouse in the middle of a War. 
  
  Overall Very entertaining game, and with the online it give it lasting value.
  Only thing I wish 
 is that there was some kind of campaign mode...*Sigh* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chalker
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Okay, battlefeild 2 for the PC is a military shooter with great graphics and sound production. The 
 maps look great and there are a lot of great structures for cover and gun emplacements around. But 
 there could have been more maps and some of them could have been bigger.
  The gameplay is engaging and fun. There are many air and land vehicles to drive and take positions 
 on. There is a good command system and you can command a squad or create your own, you can also be 
 the commander, who calls artillery strikes, supplies, the works. There is a great multiplayer aspect 
 and is quite addicting.
  The weapons are cool and with different factions (which you will be able to join different ones, such 
 as the US marines, Chinese army, and the Middle eastern coalition) you will be able to get your hands 
 on new and different weaponry. Anjd you will get different weapons with different roles you choose 
 which brings me to that, you can be a medic and heal people, and machine gunner and give ammo to 
 people, a engineer and fix vehicles, or just be assault and run and gun. If you can't play online 
 you might not want to get this, because its mainly for the online folks and on single player it 
 may get dull fast. But none the less you should definitely pick this game up and have a great time 
 with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthDravvid
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  This game, I need not say, has great graphics, great sound, great value, and great gameplay. There 
 is only one drawback, which I will adress right away, and that is the fact that you'd better have 
 a high end pc to run this game, or it can tend to get a bit laggy.
  That said, the gameplay is so sooo balanced, it's damn near perfect. For every situation there 
 is multiple solutions. For example, a tank may seem threatening, but it can be countered by other 
 vehicles, an anti tank member of your squad, or maybe some well placed C4. All in all, I found 
 that this allowed for the game to truly allow the players' skills to show, instead of stacking 
 one side with superior weapons.
  
  Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Com_Meister32
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is all its made up to be. I highly recommend buying it if you are/were a fan of BF 1942 
 or any other great shooters such as Call of Duty. Its simply the best shooter/strategy game out 
 there on the market!
  
  some people might tell you that it sucks and is "overrated". but let me tell you!
  they are either 
 drunk or retarded if they say this wonderful wonderful game sucks ( and yes I meant to say wonderful 
 twice) 
  
  what really makes it so great and immersful is all the types of "classes" you can be from sniper 
 to tank buster and its so AWESOME
  
  now lets talk about chickens. they can run around with their head chopped of!
  in battlefield 
 2... there are no chickens...
  
  I can finally say.. 
  
  
  I AM THE OWNER OF BATTLEFIELD FU 2!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: watson2000
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Battle field 2 is great in just about every aspect. It has awesome graphics, including... bump mapping, 
 dynamic shadows, and ragdoll. The weapons look and sound perfect (especially the unlocked weapons 
 which you get over time) , and you get at least 30 weapons in all. The character models for each 
 class look very good. And the levels are very large and match the modern war look. Also you get 
 a large variety of vehicles ( land, sea, or air ) which are very fast and easy to control. The only 
 bad issues about this game are the ragdoll, and getting the game to work. You have to download 
 certain drivers which takes a long time but this game is defiantly worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerang00
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 7, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  One of the greatest !! All I can say about B F 2 is am addicted!! Great game!!! Took me a while 
 to get a hold of !!! Also the patches are creating a lot of trouble in the graphics and sometimes 
 causing crashing of the game. If one is into team play this is a must have. Great graphics if you 
 have the card for it. Demands a high end graphics card though; so one must be prepared to spend 
 a bit of money.
  The game play is amazing... communication and determination is a great deal here. It is a pace setter 
 for many first shooters and should be on top for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RD_Vel0city
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 7, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  Battlefeld 2 is the lovechild of DICE's highly popular Battlefield series. With the debut of BF1942 
 3 years ago, a new BF game with improved graphics and gameplay as well as a more modern era setting, 
 has been needed and wanted strongly by the die hard fans of the BF series. The release of the Desert 
 Combat mod for '42 only fueled our want for a more modern era setting for a BF game. BF2 did just 
 that, delivering new weapons, vehicles and the modern era setting we have always wanted!
  Graphics- BF2 has to be one of the most impressively looking 1st Person Shooters to ever be released. 
 Boasting new rendering techniques and impressive shadeing BF2 truely is a work of art. The down 
 side to this is BF2 is very demanding on your system, and does require a more than mediocre system 
 to run. Even with a top-notch system BF2 is difficult if not impossible to run on full settings 
 with no problems. However recent patches and fixes for BF2 has made the game smoother and easier 
 to run.
  Sound- BF2's sound rivals its graphics. With a decent sound card, BF2 can sound amazing. If you 
 boast a top=notch sound card, try turning up BF2s sound quality to high and enjoy the fruit of 
 your looms, because it is glorious my friends. However at times during heavy combat or when a noisy 
 firefight breaks out scratchy and skippy sound can occur. However haveing a top-notch sound card 
 will eliminate this. If your like me and are stuck with on-board sound, head into the AUdio options 
 in BF2 and change the sound option from "Hardware" to "Software". This takes pressure off your 
 system and allows the game itself to handle the sound. But if you have a deticated sound card then 
 I do not recommand software setting for audio.
  Gameplay- With the ability to ground pound, fly or drive, this alone instantly gives Bf2 a high 
 gameplay rateing. BF2 boasts a long list of infantry kits, vehicles & fun maps. Bf2 boasts new 
 kits such as spec ops. Spec ops carrys a sticky explosive known as C4 which can be attached to 
 enemy vehicles as well as commander assets. And if your sneaky you can place it around flags and 
 wait for enemys to attempt to capture it and BOOM! A few easy kills. The fact that BF2 is modern 
 era means technologically advanced weapons and vehicles. New vehicles such as the AH-1z COBRA attack 
 chopper and the M1A1 Abrhams main battle tank add to the new modern day setting of BF2. You have 
 a total of 3 classes to choose from. USMC, MEC, and PLA. PLA being china, MEC being middle east 
 & USMC being US Marine Core. Each boasting different weapons and vehicles. BF2 also features 12 
 vary maps, each map comes in 16, 32 or 64 player sizes. Maps ranging from all out urban battles 
 to open fields, to vietnam style maps with heavyy brush and foggy skys. You may find Strike At 
 Karkand to be the most played map, most defiantely due to the fact that its 100% urban. Another 
 and extremely innovating feature is BF2s stat tracking! BF2 will kepp track of everything rangeing 
 from K/D ratios with certain kits and vehicles to your wins/losses for any of the 3 classes. BF2s 
 stat tracking is definately the most in-def of any game! Overall BF2's amazing and innovating gameplay 
 will last you months and months, and BF2 will definately have a strong & lasting presence in your 
 optical drive.
  Value- BF2 isnt the kind of game you play for a week or so and sell it off to EB games for that 
 $35. BF2 is probably one of the most addicting FPS's ive ever played and i'm sure thousands of 
 other people think the same. The fact that BF2 isnt a straight forward FPS such as Counterstrike 
 adds to its value.
  Tilt- The initial release of BF2 brought a lot of problems as well as much spread cheer to the 
 fans of the BF series. Bf2s release version had many of the same problems as '42 as well as slightly 
 more serious problems with the games code. However BF2s overall experience has been great. We've 
 had a few bumpy spots here and there, some takeing EA a while to fix, but we've gotten through 
 them. The fact that EA took so long to react to the communitys complaints and such tilt will be 
 marked down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezekiel62
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 6, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  This game was exactly what I bought it for. A team/squad-based, action-packed game with many different 
 choices as to how you're going to take out your opponent. However, I did experience a few issues, 
 such as at first my graphics card wasn't good enough (get the demo first!) Also, to this day, it 
 seems that 512 RAM isn't good enough for this game. I've been kicked from servers before because 
 I was idle, most of my "idle" time was when I was waiting for my computer to load up the respawn 
 screen. The major disappointment here though was how omnipotent the vehicles were. I understand 
 that a tank wouldn't be demolished by a two measley anti-tank missiles (in BF2 it takes 4) . But 
 seriously, if I wanted extremely realistic, I would have played America's Army, am I right? The 
 vehicles are also extremely powerful. One little bullet from a tank machine gun is a guaranteed 
 death, no matter where it hits you. The spawn camping from tanks was also very disappointing. One 
 last complaint is how people would rather fly a plane or helicopter than win. Most of these issues 
 are through multiplayer idiocy, but, to be honest, that is all I found disappointing. Everything 
 else, from the different kits, to the unlockable weapons, to the ability to become a Squad Leader 
 or Commander make this game a very solid and addictive game. The graphics were simply amazing, 
 and the sounds were intense. If you don't like multiplayer, don't buy this game. The single player 
 is ridiculous, as the AI is as smart as the chair I'm sitting in right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 6, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  The Battlefield seris has been sucseesful over the years. But, now it has sky-rocketed. BF:2 was 
 an instant hit for any fan of the precious games. With the new, in-depth online system, any fan 
 can pick this up and be busy with this game for at least 2 or 3 months.
  
  GOOD
  -Graphics are unbelievable
  -Commander mode is a whole new game
  -Weapons are great
  -Online 
 system is neat
  -Different armies are interseting
  -Vehicles are very well done
  -Weapon Unlocks are awesome
  
  BAD
  -Some funny glitches
  -Online loading is slow
  
 
  Overall:
  Even though this is a short review, it would take forever to name all the great qualaties BF:2 
 has.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: badgerman13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all. Guns, jets, vehicles, artillery. What more could you ask for. Plus, they 
 are always adding booster packs and expansion packs. This game i s great because you could play 
 it over and over again and not get bored. The new levels and stuff is cool. The game play is practically 
 flawless. So many vehicles, its amazing, and with so many unlocks, awards, and ranks there is no 
 way you can stop playing!!. A great feature is the voice system, which is useful to strategize. 
 So many guns, so much game play, so much fun there is absolutely no way you can get bored. A definite 
 must have! Overall, best modern-warfare game so far! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilblackgirl
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  It's understandable that DICE would continue to make BF2 after the success of 1942. I loved the 
 original and got sucked into it just like everyone else. The turnoff about BF2 is it's hefty requirement 
 specs for your PC. Upon installing the game and patches, i spent upwards of 3 days setting my specs 
 and making adjustments to various files, settings and folders to be able to play this game without 
 it turning into a slideshow. It's quite frustrating as all you want to do is play, but the game 
 is noticably buggy and has some serious issues. But, the gameplay is enough to sucker you into 
 dealing with the issues to get to the fun. The two biggest issues that i see is the in-game browser 
 designed by Gamespy and the network code for the game. Gamespy is an outdated memory hog that takes 
 20 minutes to update and get working correctly from setting your filters to refreshing the server 
 list. I've discovered that if you want to play without the hastle of the in-game browser, go with 
 a 3rd party app like Qtracker. It's efficient and quick and will get you in the game faster than 
 anything else. The second issue, the network code, is poor, at best. The inability for the game 
 to run decently in a map set up for 64 players is unacceptable. If the game cannot connect to the 
 master server, it locks up and either kicks you out or just freezes up your computer. Once you 
 can get past all these issues, the game itself is a blast. Tons of options for gameplay, a half-dozen 
 classes to choose from, great graphics and sound and some amazing maps and expansion packs (Special 
 Forces, to date) . If you can deal with the technical junk that weighted down the original game, 
 as it does this one, and get to the gameplay, it's worth it. If you don't have the patience for 
 it, don't waste your money. And if your PC specs aren't at the higher end, then you may be wasting 
 your money as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeger
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I dont know, this game is good, but it really seemed to be lacking some oomph factor. The graphics 
 are very nice, the gameplay is a bit slow, but not bad. If you have to run somewhere it stinks. 
 The maps are a bit limiting. I was really thinking I was going to like this, but it wasnt as good 
 as I hoped. It seemed like a slow version of Unreal Tournament 2004. Not the same, as you are a 
 class in this game, which has a set of weapons, but you can still pick up another classes weapons 
 and become that class, but you lose your original class. Kinda wierd there. The air vehicles are 
 so hard to fly, it was kinda rediculous. The ground vehicles were ok, not as good as UT2004 though. 
 I guess it was just too close to UT2004 but not as good, so it seemed worse that it probably really 
 is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greatwasabi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 4, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I know everyone is raving about how insanely awesome of a game this is, blah blah blah. I would 
 have given this game a high 9 rating if I had written the review within the first few weeks I had 
 gotten it. But I realize now there wasnt much there to keep me coming back to the game.
  
  Gameplay 9/10 
  Very slick controls and perfect balance of weapons and each ability available 
 to the specific weapons packages. At first I found it was much too difficult to gain enough experience 
 to increase in rank and unlock weapons but they recently released a pack that sped this process 
 up. Only thing to complain about here is the flying controls. Very realistic yes, but come on this 
 is a videogame. I do not want to spend days learning how to fly a jet and then within five seconds 
 flying out of the specified map areas and getting shot down for 'leaving the area', this was extremely 
 annoying but i just decided never to use the flying vehicles and still had a pretty good time with 
 the game for a while.
  
  graphics 10/10
  Nothing much to complain about here, graphics are perfect. You can see all the details, vehicles 
 look great, guns look great, character models look great. You can tell alot of time and care was 
 put into each model and assuring it had fine amounts of detail. It is a system hog but thats not 
 the games fault, its yours.
  
  Sound 10/10 
  Sound again is perfect, the guns have a deep, meaty sound to all of them and everything sounds 
 very realistic down to the reloading sounds and footsteps you make. There isnt an ingame soundtrack 
 but who really needs one? There is enough chaos and jets zooming overhead to make up for the lack 
 of one. 
  
  Value 6/10 
  This is where the game dissapoints, overall it is a great game for the first months. But once you 
 realize it is the same thing over, and over, and over again you lose intirest in it. You just enter 
 a map, grap your favorite weapons settings, kill someone, get shot, kill someone, get shot, then 
 make a mad dash for a flag... only to get shot again. 
  
  Good game but i guess it never grabbed me. I know for some people it really did but i couldnt find 
 much in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentshooter10
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  This one of the best games around. Although it does have some problems.
  
  What is good about the game:
  The graphics are very good, especially if you have the graphics 
 on high. The bots are very smart and somtimes very hard to beat. The A. I. is fantastic because 
 the bots will use stradagy agenist you. The multiplayer is fantstic. The new rank system is very 
 good to. The veichels are blanced out pretty much, so its an even battle.
  
  What is bad about the game:
  The loading time is way to long, if you have a old computer your 
 talking ten minutes. In single player the bot sometimes mess up and don't even move. Also in single 
 player the maps get old after a while. A big thing was a lot of the stuff they said that was going 
 to be on this game wasen't.
  
  For the most part this game is fantastic. The only real bad part about it is the loading time. 
 If you can get passed it this game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gringots
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  this game PWNS, but its got it flaws, the flaws are the n00bs that get in the heli and think they 
 so good, and pro like me, but they arent, so yeah emm n0bs should stop playing and leave the real 
 pros spawn attack with helis and not jump out midflight and leave the heli flying in circles up 
 in the air, this thing is so tight that u dont even know its a game, sometimes u may think that 
 it is a movie of like black hawk down, or like tony hawk, or anything like that, so now i think 
 they should make a battlefield : no n00bs allowed, where no n00bs are allowed to play and so us 
 pros can play happily knowing that nobody is going to spawn attack u oir run off with the tank 
 and park it out of bounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55david55david
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 3, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I bought battlefield 2 because i used to play the demo of 1942 when i learned battle field2 was 
 coming out i was really excited bought it and was istantly impressed with multiplayer graphics 
 and i really like the new ranking system with medals and ribbons .And i really like the unlockables 
 you get from playing multiplayer. the multiplayer is the main part of the game with its great online 
 play it just keeps on coming but the single player isen'i as fun it is really the same as multiplayer 
 cept that it is bots and not real players. But the gameplay is great ,the learing curve is quick, 
 great graphics, not bad sound .
  
  Over all i recoumend u buy this game and add it to ur collection today 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tgrah1827
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  The fighting, the squad palying, the arty. Its all intense in this game. This game will be rememberd 
 for innovative ideas of having a truly squad based game. Truly a great game for competitive gaming 
 in clans. I have been playing this game since Aug. of 05 and can't get enough of it. EA is making 
 it even more fun by adding more maps and more armies. The idea of a commander wasn't first brought 
 on by EA but they did a wonderful job creating that position. Also you gotta love the stats and 
 ranking system. If you like FPS and love to online play this is one you have to have in your collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  this game is an amazing completely mind-blowing game with three factions to play as and with 21 
 weapons meaning 7 kits per faction but there is also unlockable weapons in the game that you can 
 unlock you can also unlock medals you know be awarded with that when you play on ranked servers 
 but playing on unranked servers make it pretty good meaning you playing it just for fun and that's 
 extremely fun you know since i have never like a battlefield game before but battlefield 2 iterms 
 of a really really fun amazing succes game you must get it if you are a battlefield fan and if 
 you even not a battlefield fan then you should defiently try the demo it deserves it but all in 
 all battlefield 2 is still an amazing game and a must buy for peoples that likes first person shooters 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: INSIDEMAN65
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 1, 2006 3:23 am PT
Review:  Ive been playing this game for almost a month now, its one of the most addicting game ive played 
 in a long while. While there is meny flaws, like needing a patch to fix a patch to get the new 
 patch.. ya thats what i said too..
  but over all this a grate game to get together with people all over the world and have loads of 
 fun. Now saying that if EA-GAMES would only get new code writers this could turn out to be one 
 of the biggest online games ever.
  So if your looking for a game you can play that you can climb the ranks without anyone cheating, 
 thanks to Punk Busters, this game is a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiblespoop
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is an extremely addicting game that i think should not be missed. When you first 
 start playing it, you may not be used to fps' on the computer. But if you are used to computer 
 fps' you will feel right at home. Battlefield 2 has so many memorable points that you want to keep 
 coming back to it. Here is a breif example of the intensity of Battlefield 2. {You can be running 
 to an enemy capture point and see a convoy of tanks, APC's, and cars coming towards you. You run 
 over to the hill on your right and get in the prone position hoping to God that they dont notice 
 you. As the final vehicle passes you decide to take out your anti-tank wepon and shoot the car 
 to get an easy kill. You make the car into a smoldering wreck and run away. You see so enemies 
 trying to find out who shot the rocket. You sneek up on them and shoot them with your shotgun. 
 You continue on your way and start capturing their flag position. You notice a guy creeping around 
 the corner to try and kill you. You take out your shotgun again but notice that you only have one 
 shot left in the round. It takes to long to reload so you take out your pistol. You unload on the 
 guy like theres no tomorrow. You take the flag and start to walk away when the enemy commander 
 sends in an artillery barrage on your position and you die.} It's the experiences like this that 
 keep you coming back to Battlefield 2. BF2 also lets you join a squad of 6 people that you can 
 talk to with a mic to organize attacks on enemy positions and try to stay alive longer. The only 
 negatives I see in BF2 is that the game needs a decent computer to run good. The other negative 
 I find is that you can die multiple times in a row without being able to do anything, which can 
 lead to some frustration. Other than that BF2 is an overall great game that shouldn't be missed. 
 If you like organized chaos, Battlefield 2 is a great choice for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  A satellite scan reveals the Daqing oilfields. As jets dogfight above, you see a platoon of US 
 Marines holding a critical structure. They are under attack by soldiers of the Peoples Liberation 
 Army. Waves of Chinese troops assault the outpost and are mowed down by machine-gun fire and rockets. 
 Suddenly, a Chinese attack helicopter swoops down from overhead, releasing a devastating barrage 
 of artillery which emasculates the U. S. ranks. A lone gunner in a rocket turret acquires his target, 
 gets a lock, and fires at the helicopter. A direct hit. The chopper, smoke pouring from its engine, 
 flies off to lick its wounds as a tank, supported by infantry, pummels the outpost. The last anti-tank 
 marine gets a lock on the T-90 and fires, leaving the armored threat a pile of scrap. 
  
  The marines seem to have the situation under control when their old friend, the helicopter, stops 
 by for another visit. The rocket turret once again has a lock and fires, but the pilot expertly 
 maneuvers out of the way. The Peoples pilot counters and destroys the pesky turret; a final act 
 of vengeance before flying off for repairs. As Chinese reinforcements pour in, the marines become 
 overrun and are overrun. The outpost is lost. A Blackhawk helicopter circling overhead watches 
 the scene, and calls in an artillery strike. Chinese troops stand idly by as they wait for their 
 orders, the Americans dead at their feet. This victory is short-lived, as fire pours from the 
 heavens, annihilating everything in its path. The opening sequence for Battlefield 2 is over, and 
 its as accurate a portrayal of the game as anything else youll see. This fast-paced, high-adrenaline 
 game is a perfection of the previous two entries in the series and adds several elements to make 
 it one of the most rewarding shooters ever made.
  
  Speaking of shooting, youll be doing a lot of in Battlefield 2. The games twelve maps feature 
 a variety of combat situations to keep even the most battle-hardened player on their toes as they 
 fight for one of three factions: the U. S. Marine Corps, the Peoples Liberation Army, or the Middle-Eastern 
 Coalition. The wide open plains of the Zatar Wetlands are a killing ground where tanks pick off 
 infantry and ground vehicles from miles away as they try to dodge the barrages of rockets and bombs 
 laid down by enemy helicopters and aircraft. Strike at Karkland is reminiscent of Blackhawk Down, 
 a menacing battle in the middle of a city where ground troops rule and vehicles have to cautiously 
 tread down the streets, never knowing where the next anti-tank mine is or who has a rocket pointed 
 at their chassis.
  
  The maps are huge, and most are too big to travel on foot. Youll be looking for the nearest humvee 
 or transport van to quickly scurry from point to point. To compensate for different server sizes, 
 Dice made three versions of the maps which can support 16, 32, and 64 players. These arent your 
 granddaddys Battlefield 1942 maps either. Dice has mixed things up by adding destructible bridges. 
 When destroyed, they serve as deterrents for heavy armor. On some maps, they can be a choke point 
 and while one side desperately tries to repair it to send their forces across, the other attempts 
 to keep the enemy in check at all cost. These points add a great strategic element to all the maps.
 
  
  Increasing the strategy seems to be the overall theme for the game. Theres a new emphasis on squad-based 
 play that takes everything youve known about the Battlefield games and throws it into strict order. 
 At the helm of each army is a battlefield commander, the overseer if you will, that has a top-up 
 display of the land, similar to that of any strategy game. He can zoom in on the battlefield and 
 spot enemy targets, call in artillery strikes, send unmanned aerial vehicles to reveal enemy locations, 
 and even drop precious supply crates that do everything from repair your vehicles to restock your 
 ammo. No commander is invulnerable, however, and every one of his abilities, bar the supply drop, 
 are susceptible to being disabled by the enemy. Destroy the enemies artillery pieces, and a commander 
 will have no teeth with which to bite, and cant scan for enemies if you take out his or her radar 
 dish.
  
  Even with the strategic structures destroyed, commanders will still have the ability to view the 
 battlefield and issue commands to individual squads, another important new feature in Battlefield 
 2. Each side has the ability to make squads which can operate as small strike teams within the 
 army. The squad commander has the ability to communicate directly with the battlefield commander 
 and can request supply drops, artillery strikes, and can also issue orders to his squad members 
 on which areas to attack or defend.
  
  For Battlefield 2, the squad content is a godsend. Theres a real emphasis on coordinated squad-based 
 play with Battlefield Vietnams flag capture mechanicsthe more people capturing a checkpoint, 
 the faster it happensbeing carried over, along with squad leaders serving as mobile spawn points. 
 Its entirely possible for some squads to be completely self-sufficient with medics reviving fallen 
 comrades and support infantry dealing out the ammo. These positions arent just skin deep anymore, 
 either, people will want to play support roles.
  
  Taking a play out of the Return to Castle Wolfenstein playbook, Battlefield 2 now awards points 
 to medics, engineers, and support infantry. Its entirely possible to have the highest score from 
 reviving fallen comrades as a medic. None of the classes seem too overpowered either, so any issues 
 reminiscent of Battlefield Vietnams support class are gone. With playing emphasis shifted to several 
 different classes, players are encouraged to work in teams. This is further demonstrated by Battlefield 
 2s new communication system.
  
  In addition to an upgraded user interface for the games pre-made verbal commands, you can now 
 hook up a headset and communicate verbally. The beauty of it is that you can only communicate this 
 way with squad members, that way you dont have random twelve-year-olds spouting profanities. However, 
 even with all the incentives for team play, it doesnt always happen. A lot of matches consist 
 of 32 individual people shooting anything in sight. In fact, if youre part of a good squad and 
 play as a team, youll absolutely hate going back to a one man army mentality. Dice could have 
 included more incentives, such as a greater amount of capture points for squads who take a checkpoint 
 together, to get players to think on a more tactical level. Then again, entire squads can just 
 as easily be taken out by a well-shot tank shell than any single soldier, and its certainly better 
 to have one casualty than an entire six man team.
  
  Tank shells arent the only thing to worry about. Battlefield 2 continues the series tradition 
 of giving you a myriad of ways to deal out mechanized destruction. Each side features similar types 
 of vehicles and all have variants of battle tanks, armored transports, attack and transport helicopters, 
 recon buggies, and anti-aircraft vehicles. The same balance that was in the previous games has 
 found its way here and theres no one kill-all vehicle. Infantry can be massacred by a sharp-eyed 
 tank driver and those same tanks need to watch out for aircraft and rocket turrets. The APCs have 
 been given powerful anti-tank missiles which enable them to stand toe-to-toe with just about any 
 ground vehicle. Tanks have been upgraded with smoke canisters to blind enemies spouting anti-tank 
 rockets and all aircraft feature flares which will throw off incoming missiles. Youll be using 
 these tools to navigate the mayhem, as destruction can come from any angle on the online battlefield; 
 the same can not be said about its single-player companion.
  
  While most people out there wont buy Battlefield 2 for its single-player portion, there are some 
 who will just to get a taste of what the rest of the game is like. Unfortunately, that taste is 
 bitter, and this is caused mainly by the games AI. To give the game credit, the bots are smarter 
 than the incompetent ones in Battlefield 1942 and Battlefield Vietnam, but thats not saying much. 
 The AI in this installment will gather its forces around the nearest checkpoint flag, and then 
 not move. Every once and a while one will run to get a vehicle, and then drive it right back to 
 the same flag. Even then, the AI cant really interpret what to do with some vehicles, like the 
 Blackhawk pilot who took off without a crew and endlessly circled the sky until the end of the 
 match.
  
  It can do some things right. If you ever fall in combat, a nearby medic will revive you right away. 
 The enemy AI will also give you a run for your money inside vehicles. Their shots are accurate, 
 frequent, and once the AI spots you, its very difficult to shake it. Overall, it makes the single-player 
 experience a lukewarm adventure at best. In reality, its only useful as a training tool for learning 
 how to fly aircraft and getting used to handling the vehicles. The online component isnt without 
 its sore spots either.
  
  In the online menus, server browsing is fairly straightforward, but for some reason there seems 
 to be a favorites option missing. The game also keeps track of a unique login, but fails to have 
 buddy lists. Youll want to find players again because squad-based play in Battlefield 2 is that 
 damn good. At the very least, being able to go back to a server which forces teams to make squads 
 would be adequate. Players can do neither, and youll feel the frustration mounting after the game 
 randomly loses your connection on a good servera frequent occurrenceand youre forced to exit 
 the game.
  
  Not all the online features are doom and gloom. Battlefield 2 has a very in-depth stats system 
 and youll be able to keep track of your kills, deaths, times played on certain maps, favorite 
 vehicles, and kill-to-death ratios for every weapon, just to name a few. The game also awards experience 
 points for how you perform in each game you play. As you gain experience points you gain promotions 
 which not only increase your status for others to see, but give you precedence as battlefield commander 
 over lower-ranking players. New ranks also unlock weapons which you can use in multiplayer. The 
 weapons arent much better than the standard ones, but do feature extra zoom, and in some cases 
 better accuracy.
  
  When youre looking through the scope, though, one thing youll notice is just how sweet this game 
 looks. A revamped engine has made Battlefield 2 one of the most visually rewarding multiplayer 
 games out there. Youll see massive shell casings fall to the ground as you stare out the side 
 porthole of an APC while dirt puffs outside from bullet impacts from circling helicopters. The 
 rag doll physics have been improved and are some of the most realistic motions out there. Load 
 times are a bother, even on the beefiest of systems, and theres always an initial choppiness on 
 any map each time you load it up. Even on a computer with a gig of dual channel RAM and a 3.2 ghz 
 hyper-threading processor, settings had to be thrown on medium, mostly due to the ancient Radeon 
 9700 Pro the test system was sporting.
  
  The rest of the performance was fairly standard, especially in the audio. The only music are the 
 variants on the Battlefield theme that come in middle-eastern and far-east flavors. As expected, 
 each sides commands are spoken in their native languages. It may be confusing at first, but eventually 
 youll recognize the important ones and be able to run if you hear, Artillery in your area in 
 Arabic or Mandarin. Battlefield 2 is best played with a surround system, as it accentuates sounds 
 from all angles from far and away. As you crash down in the prone position, a sniper bullet flying 
 right by your head is the exact audio cue you need to move someplace else. 
  
  Dice seemed to go the extra mile for sound effects and youll be able to hear differences of the 
 ground your walking on and whatever vehicle youre in is traveling on. All gunfire is done crisply 
 and as realistically as one can expect for a videogame. It helps put a nice bow on a complete gaming 
 package.
  
  When its all said and done, Battlefield 2 is one of those games that justifies upgrading ones 
 computer and splurging for the sometimes-pricey broadband connection. Its a fulfilling experience 
 through and through. Fans of the previous Battlefield games will find that theres more here than 
 just a few minor upgrades and tweaks. There are a few minor issues such as connection drops and 
 load times, but its easily forgivable considering the amount of fun the game offers. The new emphasis 
 on squad-based play on a grand scale makes Battlefield 2 one of the best multiplayer experiences 
 ever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gouldguitarist
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 27, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2. The ultimate first person modern warfare game returns and its as brilliant as ever. 
 The second installment of the popular series takes you deep into vast open-ended enviroments to 
 gun your way through with a huge array of guns, jeeps, tanks, helicopters and throw in the odd 
 Harrier Jump-jet for good mesure and there you have it. Enroll as either the U. S Marines, Republic 
 of China or the Middle Eastern Colilation and take the battle online with matches up to 64 players 
 ( but be warned, a good connection is needed!) in what can only be discribed as hell. With beautiful 
 graphics for player models, enviroment textures and objects, the game goes into tiny detail to 
 make everything look amazing and how it should and with amazing sound that immerses yourself right 
 in the middle of the battle. Be part of your own squad or take the job as commander and order you 
 men to victory by any means necessary in the seriously huge 12 theatres of war to unleash carnage. 
 Not only does the online play offer a huge amount of gameplay, but add-on packs such as Battlefield 
 2: Special forces extend the thrilling experience of the game for longer than ever. This game really 
 is worth the money which isn't really that much -although not to say the game is cheap- with excellent 
 build quality and originality this game sets it apart from anything else in its genre .
  
  
  Good : Looks smooth and beautiful, long lasting gameplay with thrilling online play and add-on 
 packs making it the best in its genre
  
  Bad : Requires a fast conection for big battles, a powerful PC to run and very long loading times 
 
  
  For more information please visit http://www. ea. com/official/battlefield/battlefield2/us/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fuuuuureakkkk
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 26, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  Reasons why you should get this game
  
  1. It is awesome
  2. The Bots are actually smart *cough BF1 bots suck cough*
  3. Graphics rule
  4. This games sound 
 is awesome
  5. YOU CAN BE A GENERAL AND NUKE PPL
  6. Its awesome
  7. It never ceases to be fun
  8. there is a expansion
  9. why shouldn't you get this game
 
  10. IT ABSOLUTLY KILLS HALO 2 IN MULTI PLAYER ON LINE
  11. IT ABSOLUTLY KILLS UT 2004 IN MULTI PLAYER ON LINE
  12. IT KILLS CS IN ON LINE
  13. I can't 
 figure any thing else out
  14. Wow rules
  15. this game rules
  16. thank you EA for this and Oddworld Strangers Wrath
  17. Gonna go play this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GazzaB
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 24, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  BF2 is just what i expected from a sequel to the excellent BF1942. I wasnt disapointed at all. 
 
  First off, BF2 features some of the best graphics available to PC gaming, and definitely does not 
 disappoint in game play. The game has been completely been remade from BF1942, but keeps the same 
 general approach, capturing the flags and destroying the enemy with your wide array of weapons. 
 However many more features have been created to keep you entertained. Such as a global ranking 
 system, where you are displayed among the hundreds of thousands of other people who are playing. 
 Players also achieve permanent promotions, which they achieve after performing well on the battlefield. 
 Weapons are also unlocked when you achieve promotions; there are six weapons to be unlocked, along 
 with the six solider packs. Medics have the ability to bring people back to life, and the COM players 
 are much more skilled, they now also do knife combat. Plus many more features.
  The game is also a lot more action packed on the frontlines, as you can now work together in a 
 squad, or just as a lone player. One player has the ability to be the commander for a team now, 
 who gets to order UAV scanning, area scans, supply drops, and artillery strikes, along with being 
 able to instruct squads on where to attack and defend.
  The game has taken a giant leap forward in game play, and is a fantastic game for multiplayer; 
 however singleplayer is available for those who do not have access to the internet.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supashooter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is by far one of the best first person shooters for the PC to date. Despite its certain 
 bugs such as memory leaks among other things, this game has you ignoring them by entertaining you 
 with great gameplay and intense action moments that keep your adrenaline flowing. All you action 
 and shooter nuts out there know how easy it is to get bored of a game even if it has great components: 
 take Black for example. It has great sound and effects but this gets tiring after a while. This 
 is not the case in BF2 because it has an excellently made ranking system that gives you something 
 to look forward to. 
  
  When you start out as private, you try your hardest to up at least two ranks so that you can unlock 
 your first weapon. This game component is brilliant because when you unlock your first weapon, 
 its sort of a trophy, but useful. It gives an edge online but you need to master it. 
  
  Online battles can be extremely fierce, with up to 64 players trying to prove themselves best at 
 Battlefield 2. This is no game like Soldner where theres an enemy every 100 miles, you're always 
 on the look out, making sure you don't step on a mine, get your organs rearranged my some sniper 
 with a .50 cal, or simply get owned up front. It's a game of constant action giving you as much 
 as an edge as anyone else would get. 
  
  A feature that we don't see all too often in games is the kit selection (or "roles" if you like) . 
 It's a system in which you choose your role/kit (such as assault, enginner, medic, anti-tank...) 
 and you become an important asset to your team. No two kits are alike yet each one has its pros 
 and cons making them all equally vulnerable to another player. These advanteages and disadvantages 
 are learned over time either by killing, or being killed. The possiblities are endless in strategy 
 and variety. 
  
  Also, There is the commander and squad systems which don't appear very important but are maybe 
 the most important features in the game, giving a strategic advantage over the other team and winning 
 you the round.
  
  The sound as some to be desired. The weapons don't have a very heavy feel to them when fired but 
 are still of very high quality. There's nothing like having artillery dropped over your head and 
 hearing all that happen at the same time (of course) . In my opinion, playing BF2 without sound 
 is like playing it without a keyboard or mouse, it ruins the experience. And remember, communication 
 is key. Make sure to have a microphone because typing in the text box is the worst way to communicate 
 because as previuosly stated, there are always bullets flying over your head you don't want to 
 look AFK while being shot. 
  
  This is worth the full $50 wich is more than most shooters can say (and other games at that) so 
 I recommend getting your copy today and experience the best thing to hit the PC since Half-life 
 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowbrains788
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I started off with the demo, while I was planning to buy it, and I loved it! Once I had bought 
 it, I immediatly went to adjust controls to my joystick, which didn't turn out too well... As I 
 searched, I found that it doesn't have an auto-configure, and that you can strafe, but you can't 
 change the look left/right command, which forced me to use a combination of the mouse and the joystick, 
 which was very annoying.
  The gameplay is great, the graphics, even better! You quickly learn in the single player mode, 
 then easily adjust to multiplayer. Multiplayer is great, perfect squad commands, easy communication, 
 the only fault is that it lacks a campaign. Three whole disks, and it doesn't even have a campaign! 
 It rags on about the battles between USMC, and the MEC/PLA, and it doesn't have campaign! What 
 it lacks in campaign, it easily makes up in graphics, which are, by my standards, superb. 
  It is defiantly a great deal, a great play, and exceptional overall, but don't think about it with 
 a slow computer. I've got a fairly fast computer, and I have excessive load times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firestreak2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 3:01 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is the sequel to the original Battlefield 1942. This highly demanding game, while 
 impressive in many aspects, is also lacking in some. Mind you, I own this game for a medium-high 
 end computer, so settings were on medium, and take that into account while reading this review.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Battlefield 2 takes an arcade over realism approach, placing weapons, characters, and vehicles 
 out of proportion. While entertaining, there are moments when you just have to ask, 'Why can an 
 apache take two hits from a tank, and a jet fighter only one.' Sometimes one has to say, 'Ok, I 
 shot that guy over and over, and he was prone while I was doing it. How in God's name did he kill 
 me after I hit him 30 times, with what feels like 3 bullets?!' Those shortcomings aside, most of 
 the time one just says 'Woo! I'm in a tank shooting people!' While it's fun for the most part, 
 some logical issues can be very aggravating.
  
  Graphics:
  Battlefield 2 looks great, there's no denying that. However, it cannot support 1200x1600 resolution 
 nor other high resolutions, and on monitors optimised by such a resolution, it leaves horrid jagged 
 lines on every model, even with anti-aliasing at max. While demanding, Battlefield can be too demanding; 
 Nobody is going to stop using a 400 dollar monitor and buy a different 400 dollar monitor just 
 to play this game to have the best experience. DICE's job is to cater to us, the gamer. Not us 
 to them.
  
  Sound:
  Battlefield 2 sounds great. Some of the sounds are poorly chosen, however. Otherwise, a solid selection 
 of sound.
  
  Value:
  Overall, Battlefield 2 is a great game. Nevertheless, some of the lesser points of this game can 
 be so aggravating that they detract from the quality of this game. Also, the rock paper scissors 
 gameplay style seriously counteracts the war aspect of the game. Even the server browser takes 
 a long time to load, as do maps, etc. Basic issues, however when one comes home after a long day 
 to relax to some good ol' BF2, and BF2 says 'Sorry, I don't cater to you,' one might wonder why 
 he or she even bought the game in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hornet1771
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  This is the most addictive game i have played since KOTOR. there are only a few faults to this 
 game.
  1. The menus are slow, but only disrupt gameplay from time to time. 
  2. DICE (game maker) keeps adding things you have to buy when they should be expansion packs. 
 
  3. auto balance could be better.
  other than that gameplay is sweet, graphics stunning, vehicles and squads are fun, closest to war 
 youll get without actually joining the army.
  every kill, death, and second you play is recorded to view later. you earn rank and medals as you 
 progress. adds a sense of pride to your game (also an addictive factor)
  basically LOVE IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodMode
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 22, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Ive got one word for this game. WOW! EA has really outdone themselves this time.
  
  Gameplay: Silky smooth as long as you get your graphics settings right. It plays nicely in and 
 out of battle.
  
  Graphics: Outstanding. The brilliant new engine is awesome! Just that you'll have to mess with 
 the graphics settings to get it to run perfect on your machine.
  
  Sound: Very nice sound, wether it comes to your boots hitting the dirt, your M16 firing off rounds 
 or, your vehicle cathing some air, BF2 has it all.
  
  Online: An intense fragathon that you can expierience over and over again. This aspect of the game 
 could keep you occupied for a very Long Time!
  
  Overall: All ive got to say is: Buy it-Play it-Love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The game has amazing multiplayer, however, the game seems to move much more slowly than the other 
 installments in the series. The game has great weapons and great vehicles and makes for a great 
 gaming experience. 
  
  Graphics:
  If you have a good graphics card then you will have a great experience, however, if you don't have 
 a good one, the graphics will really stink. The guns, environment, and the player models all look 
 very realistic in the game. 
  
  Sound:
  The game has very good sound effects for the weapons and vehicles. However, the music, that only 
 comes into play in certain areas in the game, is not very good, and lacks the emotion in the music 
 from 1942 and Vietnam. 
  
  Value:
  The game has very good value because it has really fun multiplayer. The mulitplayer is the reason 
 to buy the game, because the single player is the same as the multiplayer but without playing other 
 players. 
  
  I would get the game if you like modern warfare and good multiplayer games. The game really has 
 bad single player and really is only for people who will play the game against their friends or 
 other players. I would buy 1942 or Vietnam over this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZuljinRaynor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Battefield 2 is the best team Multiplayer game out there right now. It is a great experience especially 
 since you feel you are there. The graphics are phenominal, even on the lowest settings, since that's 
 what I play it on.
  
  With the new 1.2 patch, the game has gotten even better. Some abilities have been removed making 
 the game much more fair for less skilled players, meaning those who could not take the bunny hopping 
 spammers out. 
  
  The game does get frustrating only when your team is pretty bad and when the other team is better, 
 by a large ammount and if they keep using tanks and planes. It also gets annoying if you spawn, 
 unluckily, in an airstirke, plane bombardment, in front of a tank or back to a enemy.
  
  Aside from those, and the very, bad server browser, the game is very goodt. Must buy for those 
 into semi-tactical modern war Multiplayer FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Strike
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 4:13 am PT
Review:  Pros: I always played Battlefield 1942 & Vietnam and was a huge fan of the series. That's why I 
 was very excited when a sequel to the series would arrive, when the demo came online I downloaded 
 it rigth away, but when I played it my excitement became sadness. The game has a Battlefield feeling, 
 that I have to admit. The Graphics are great, but don't differ very much on a Low-end and High-end 
 system. The boats where really fun to ride and the levels where great. 
  
  Cons: But when the shooting began, I had to fire almost 2 Mags to kill a dude. And since you only 
 get about 4 mags you're really fast out of ammo. Maybe I was bad with the machine gun I thought 
 and tried the Sniper Rifle; had to fire 2, maybe 3 headshots till a guy died! The vehicles where 
 the only weapon where you could kill a guy with normally! After a while the expansion special forces 
 came out. I was glad to find out that those weapons where able to kill a person without shooting 
 whole mags at him. Too bad this axpansion only had 3 or 4 levels. If they had made special forces 
 the original game, it would have been an excelent game. this game could have been so much more... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:13 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun and exciding to play. Its mostly for online gameplay meaning if you don't 
 like online stuff don't buy it then. The game has big maps and also alot of vehicles but of course 
 in every battle field game there will always be those funny people that want the chopper so bad 
 they will blow their own teammates for it *note this includes me, i am one of them lol*
  
  The game has choppers to tanks to jets to trucks and boats. The game has a carrier but you can't 
 drive it like the other battle field games. But it does have a mini gun that allows you to stop 
 those campers from trying to take your team's stuff. The game has of course the capture the flags 
 aka go to a flag and hold it to take control over that area. But hey its fun. There are 3 sides 
 to pick, the chinese, the U. S. A and the desert people lol i just love calling them that because 
 its hard to see them from a distance.
  
  The online has a neat system where it records your stats aka kills and points and it adds it towards 
 a ranking system... Now this is neat , there are alot of ranks to get from private to general etc 
 but the higher you go the more chance to unlock new and special weapons for your character such 
 as a more improved machine gun that allows you to kill those other players alittle easier. The 
 game also has a built in microphone system that allows you to talk to your teammate and give them 
 the hey do this and that routine lol. 
  
  The game also has a commander system which allows the players of each team to pick a commander 
 when they get their commander the commander gets special options such as calling in support crate 
 which will land in an area he picks and it will repair and rearm anyone near it this includes the 
 enemy too. He also can call in some strikes to help blow the enemy away. Only problem is what monkey 
 sees monkey do, the enemy has the same thing a commander and the same weapons to fight back at 
 you. But you can blow apart their base and stop those support from injurying your buds and your 
 way to success.
  
  Overall the game is great, so if your a online first person shooter then i suggest this or if your 
 just the battle field fan then get it when you see it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberstix171
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  The game is awesome, there's no doubt about that. The team did a great job bringing in everything 
 from bf42 and desert combat. The only problem is not within the game but with the company. It seems 
 that every time a release comes up or a new patch or update rolls around they always postpone it 
 aout 72 hours before hand. It gets really annoying but I guess it really doesn't matter since they 
 sell copies. As far as the game is concerend, each update or patch is like christmas, you just 
 can't wait. Just a thought. Buy the game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AD-SONIC
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome 
 f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome 
 f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome 
 f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome 
 f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome 
 f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome 
 f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome 
 f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome 
 f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome 
 f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome 
 f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome f****ing awsome 
 f****ing awsome f****ing awsome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connordude64
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  The battlefield is a great game, along with three armies: USMC aka USA, PLA aka China, MEC aka 
 Iraq. There are so much vehicles and weapons at your disposal. The recent 1.2 patch fixed a lot 
 of problem, but some problem remains, like the generade launcher making easy kills at close range, 
 those are called Noob Tubers by our wonderful community. The creater Dice is paying attention to 
 the problem out community asked them to fix...
  
  There are many weapons made with close-realism, however, due to patch 1.2 the strongest weapon: 
 PKM is overpowered, it makes a sniper-weapon also a death-trap close range gun. Our community is 
 asking Dice to tone it down, by toning it down, i mean, make it less powerful and less accurate.
 
  
  I, however, agrees with the community. I am a PKM user, i decided it was too strong for us, however 
 there is a advangate for higher players, you need to unlock the PKM by gaining rank to Lance Corporal. 
 The first rank, new players or players who started another account is Private, a basic class, when 
 you can go all the way up to General. However, the most powerful player is Blazin. uk. He is a General 
 from the United Kingdom (england) However, the ranks take a lot of time, 100+ hours... also very 
 addictive... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbgun12shot
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I was suprised I got another EA game, I usually cant stand the way how they are just numbers crazy, 
 they really never have cared much about the games, but I am sure the games creator does. 
  For one thing, when you start the game up, you cant skip the EA logo thingy where it pops up and 
 goes, "EA Games", then this little kid whispers, "challenge everything", I have had three EA games, 
 I cant stand this much longer, I could slap that kid in the face. So I turn the volume down when 
 I start the game.
  Now, that didnt lower the score im going to give this game.
  The gameplay is much like bf1942, maps SEEM to be bigger, tank projectiles do move as slowly, so 
 its an easier trajectory, apcs, jets, helicoptors, etc... I am scoring this for online play only, 
 dont buy this if you have a 56k, the bots are just a little smarter than bf1942's bots, a little 
 better is not enough! You can pick multiple rules, sniper, assualt, engineer, special forces, medic, 
 and anti-tank. I havent been playing to long, but it can be difficult to tell enemy from allie, 
 their uniforms are very similar, but this is modern warfare, so I imagine this is accurate. BUT, 
 when in the heat of combat, you sometimes have to highlight your target to identify it as friend 
 or foe, which seems to take a second, and the letters are tiny, I know it may sound whiny, but 
 I have died alot of times afraid I will kill an allie. In fact, I accidentaly fragged two allies, 
 before I could say sorry I was kicked out of the server.
  One more thing, the infantry has to many hitpoints, a few times I remember nailing someone in the 
 torso with the .50 caliber sniper rifle, and the enemy keeps on running. Gameplay gets a 9 out 
 of 10, nearly gave it an 8 though.
  The graphics are great, but I have a powerfull system and can run them all the way up, with aa 
 x2, my older system was well above the "requirements", and the game ran like CRAP, so make sure 
 you are at least two times above the requirements, remember this is EA, they lie about requirements, 
 well, dont lie but give you the lowest minimum possible. The water looks stunningly real, and frags 
 dont have a big fire-like explosion to them but a more realistic cloud of smoke instead, just leaving 
 the concusion and fragmentation to do the damage. 10 out of 10 for graphics
  The sound, it sounds great, but like in so many games the guns just arent loud enough, if you have 
 ever shot a gun you would know what I mean. An allie next to you, yelling at you, is probably just 
 as loud as him shooting a gun. Another thing, they should have learned from hl2, and gave explosions 
 that great concusion to them, instead they seem to draw out to long. 8 out of 10 for sound.
  Now, the value is hard to score, if I had a 56k and playied single player I would give it a 4 or 
 something, but I am scoring this for online play, it is one of the better games out there online. 
 10 out of 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragN1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is one of my favorite online multiplayer games. The strong point of battlefield 2 
 just like the others is the online multiplayer. The multiplayer online is amazing and very addicting, 
 and it requires teammates who can work together. The graphics in Bf2 are superb and some of the 
 best graphics of 2005. The gameplay is amazing and very addicting for anyone new to the battlefield 
 series. The sound is once again another strong-point in this game, its just amazing to hear the 
 bullets zipping past your head in a firefight. This game has amazing replay value, but if you wanna 
 get this game then online is the part you don't wanna miss. All in all Bf2 is an amazing game and 
 one of my favorite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tere_52mx
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  this is one of the best and highly addictive game that I have ever played. I never get bored playing 
 it, I always loose track of the time because of this game. I love the graphycs, specially if you 
 have one of those new graphic cards, it also has great sound. One of the coolest things it's the 
 squads thing, that's really fun (if you have a godd squad that is) . However it has some negative 
 effects on you , whenever i need to go somewhere I start yelling "go, go, go," or whenever i need 
 something i say "i need supplies over here." Nah just kidding, but it is an addictive game. I highly 
 recommend this game!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: child1
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  The battlefield series has been a long one, starting out in 2002 with 1942, which was, and still 
 is, one of my favorite games of all time. Battlefield Vietnam came along in 2004 with more classic 
 do-what-you-want gameplay, but didnt offer as much as 1942 did. Now comes Battlefield 2, which 
 still maintains the core gameplay which made the series great to begin with. The game has its large 
 maps, with a good enough assortment of vehicles to keep players entertained. However, a few things 
 have seriously brought the game down to an unwanted level. The game is bogged down with lots of 
 lag, and when starting up, it takes a few minutes to get the game to run at an acceptable level. 
 Even in the midst of action, an explosion causes the game to sometimes freeze for a short time. 
 Now the computer i play this on isnt bad, it has a 7800 GT and AMD FX-57 speeds with 1 gb of OCZ 
 Ram. The game has high FPS, but the high performance just doesnt cut it. Battlefield Vietnam and 
 1942 did not have this problem, and while many reviews state that more than 1gb of ram is needed, 
 i feel that patches could have helped optimize the gameplay as a whole. And the patches have not 
 pleased me, every single one of them has not seemed to help fix the stuttering problems, and they 
 rather focused on removing gameplay elements. Every time i finish playing BF2, i have to restart 
 my comp cause the Ram gets sucked up by the game, and slows down my computer.
  
  If only Battlefield 2 had smoothed up to a very playable level, the game would be much better, 
 and would definitely compete with the classic 1942 game. While the gameplay elements are there, 
 enjoying them to a certain extent just cant be reached with the problems that water down the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christhepenguin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  My uncle had just got the game and wanted me to get it so that I could play with him in a squad 
 with some of his friends. I got the game and he got me an internet chat headset for my birthday. 
 We were set. Every now and then he calls me up and we head to the Battlefield. With all the features 
 and amazing graphics in this game I'm surprised my computer runs it as well as it does. It's always 
 fun. You just get out there and school people. The rock-paper-scissors like effect of the game 
 keeps the game from being flooded with snipers or tank-whores. Because with snipers and tank whores 
 come assault and anti-tank units. A very fun game that you can always come back too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_George86
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Great improvements on earlier games of the series. 
  The thing i dont like is the load times and time it takes to find a decent multiplayer game. Once 
 you get a good server its all fun. Pretty flexible little content that feels missing. 
  
  Air stuff take some serious skill, if you want to fly be prepared for a huge challenge. The shooting 
 is pretty damn fun. 
  
  I have to say the special forces expansion pack i would rate a 0 with this being a 10. The special 
 forces was just a cheap production to leech money off this great game. 
  
  Not too realistic and not too unrealistic and keeping an action feel.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelda4ds
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  my battle feild 2 (or bf2 which u proboly already know but im just making shur) account name is 
 tony040704 so if u get pruned by tony040704 then u got pruned by me. LOL. this game has really 
 good grafics almost as good as 360 grafics. if u can get this game. the mic. in this game is the 
 worst ever it makes me so mad because i can barly hear the person i"m talking to (mostly shakemaster22 
 a friend of mine and if their is a squad on ur team that is called tonyshake [ that is for tony040704 
 and shakemaster22 ] join we will lov to have u. but we wont b on for a wile because we just got 
 world of warcraft which i will be wrighting a rebiew for later) sory about that . so if u have 
 a pc that can play this game and have a spare $30 get this game its alot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigmacfreeman
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 19, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  When I was first got pulled into this game I couldn't stop playing it for hours! I played it every 
 time I had a free minute and I still do. It has 7 different classes including, special ops, sniper, 
 assault, support, engineer, anti-tank, and medic. These different classes add a huge aspect to 
 the game because they each have different weapons and objects. Also the graphics are amazing, especially 
 if you have an alienware. You must get the game if you do not have it already. The only down side 
 of this game is you must have a good computer.
  
  Also check out Special Forces Expantion Pack!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nascarulz
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  i love this game it is a must buy hands down! the graphics were amazing, its like im right there. the 
 single player is okay but nobody care its all about the multiplayer! the maps are large and fun! some 
 of the best multiplayer maps ive ever seen! i have to say i dont own the game but ive played it 
 at a friends so i got a good idea of the game. it is soooooooooooooo addicting! i just plain love 
 this game if i had a better internet and computer alone i would sooooo buy this. if you dont have 
 this buy it because there is an expansion pack to the game buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jak360
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 18, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  To first start of this great franchise is that the graphics are the best I've ever seen with the 
 breathtaking water effects, amazing sounds, and rag doll physics. The weapon sounds very realistic 
 and I like the way every thing blows up. The single AI Bot thing is very much improved and more 
 enjoyable, but the online mulitplayer was 100 times better than the last battlefield, They also 
 have the ability to talk to people yes thats right talk to people ,which is better than the boring 
 typing that you did in the previous ones. They also have some neet classes to play with and cool 
 ranking system which I always wanted in the games thier stat tracking is well improved and more 
 in depth .When I spent about 8 hours of playing this game, their were some disappointing things 
 about it so, prepare to take that wallet of yours because you'll need to take out alot of cash to 
 play this thing if you don't have a good enough computer to run the game and there is some lag 
 as well and I wish that the loading screens would'nt be so Long!! So overall besides that, I really 
 like this game and is easily one of the best online FPS for your computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i2uZz31L
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  best game i have on the pc. the gameplay is just bad ass, the graphics are good the only prob is 
 u have to have a really good vid card but i had that so no worries. hands down best game on the 
 PC. If you have ever played bf 1942 and liked it get this game no lie you can do anything the class 
 system and ranking system add a whole new element to the game and make it more competitive. VoIP 
 communication in game is flawless, just make sure you join a good server for alot of fun because 
 lag could ruin your whole game if your in an airplane or a helicopter or anything. bad ass game 
 hands down GET IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 8:49 pm PT
Review:  To start out the graphics, gameplay, and such were quite good. And even got better after the first 
 needed patch. There is a good variety ot weapons, armor, air, and sea vehicles. But after a while 
 you find your favorite and tend to use that. 
  
  I liked how infintry where the main units in this game. Tanks and helicopters definately were more 
 powerful, but infintry units still had a large part in the game. 
  
  Also having to gain experience to unlock some of the better weapons, was a good addition. This 
 gave something to strive for, other than just rank increase which in reality would just be trivial, 
 without meaning. 
  
  Playing commander was also fun at time, if you like to from the sidelines. It made fighinting and 
 playing commander difficult, but if you were skilled enough you could pull it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: idealbasher
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  There will be doubters and naysayers who will claim that Battlefield 2 is just an incremental upgrade 
 from its famous predecessors, or that it only offers a marginal improvement over the popular Desert 
 Combat mod for Battlefield 1942. Ignore them, because they couldn't be more wrong. EA and Digital 
 Illusions' cutting-edge and highly awaited sequel is everything that it's supposed to be and more. 
 Battlefield 2 is a thrilling testament to how great PC gaming can be. It packs unmatched gameplay, 
 impressive visuals, and endless replayability in one exquisite package. And it's, by far, the most 
 fun that we've had with a PC game this year. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 17, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Well where do I start........ The highly addictive and fantastic game play will have you playing 
 this game far longer than any one human being should play a game. There are six different classes 
 available to you Special Ops, Sniper, Assault, Support, Medic, and Anti Tank, each have there own 
 advantages and disadvantages. You have three army's to be on USA, the fictional MEC (middle eastern 
 coalition) , and China. The object of the game is simple there are various flag points though out 
 the huge maps and you capture them each team normally starts off wight 200 tickets a piece and 
 the more flags you have the faster the other teams tickets will drop, get to zero You win. You 
 can play as a commander in which the game then effectively becomes an RTS were as you look at a 
 screen and drop supplies to your teammates and amet UAV's for radar and artillery strikes, all 
 which give you points and only that, because as a commander you do not get points killing the enemy 
 or capturing flags. There is a massive on-line stat and ranking system that keeps track of everything 
 you do and the more points you get the more guns and such accessories can be unlocked. Battlefield 
 2 has many vehicles and aircraft to choose from, and in the heat of battle it can get very hectic 
 and is really intense to see hordes of people fling around and blowing s#! t up all around you. 
 The graphics on the game are ..... well.... simply stunning even for PC standards, you will need 
 a beefy rig for sure if you plan to play this game the way it's meant to be played! However there 
 are server issue's and the load times are absolutely atrocious, even with my 3 Meg connection rooms 
 over 75-80 ping are not even worth the load time. But that is really the only negative thing about 
 the game I can say. If you have the rig to play Battlefield 2 then it is a definite buy, and if 
 not then UPGRADE YOUR PC MAN!!!!!!!!!!! This is a definite buy and is one of the best games of 
 the last 5 years. Good luck and see ya on the Battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Playa_69_
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  i rate this game 9/10. this game is possibly the best for 2005. Great mutiplayer online game which 
 will keep you hooked for years. You are the soldier now you can choose your weapon kits from assault, 
 support, medic etc. It is very realistic and makes you feel like ur into the game and calling for 
 backup. You can be on land, air or even the water. There are many ups about this game. But here 
 is a few downs about battlefield 2. The loading takes a long time and uses up much space. I recomend 
 this to people who love first person shooter but when you buy it look at the requirments! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tukepuikko
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  It's the best action game ever!!
  
  BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! 
 BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! 
 BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! 
 BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! 
 BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! 
 BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! 
 BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! BEST! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyalbers
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 7, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  This game had me hooked for a good 2 weeks straight. Then I realized that I was just doing the 
 same thing over and over again, and not having that much fun. The value of this game really comes 
 around to whether or not you are willing to be a team player. Solo missions are ill advised, and 
 pretty much just suicide.
  Overall this game is great, but you have to be willing to sacrifice to be good at it. Having a 
 clan, or group of guys to play with would really help the staying power of this game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadman45326
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  one of the best pc games i have ever played. just amazing graphics looks so realistic and very 
 high def if you play one pc game this year it has to be battle field 2. no one will tell you that 
 this game is bad whoever you tell to play this game they will tell you awsome like very few games 
 this game will entertain you for months you definitely have to play this game. i would recommend 
 this game to everyone i know. play this game no one has ever made like battle field 2 play it as 
 soon as possible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoulAngel4890
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  have a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun have a fun have a fun
  have a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun 
 have a funhave a fun have a fun have a fun have a fun have a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun 
 have a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun have a fun 
 have a funhave a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun 
 have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun have a funhave 
 a fun have a fun have a fun have a fun
  have a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun 
 have a funhave a fun have a fun have a fun have a fun have a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun 
 have a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun have a fun 
 have a funhave a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun 
 have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun have a funhave 
 a fun have a fun have a fun have a fun
  have a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun 
 have a funhave a fun have a fun have a fun have a fun have a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun 
 have a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun have a fun 
 have a funhave a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun have a fun have a funhave a fun 
 have a fun have a funhave a fun have a fun have a fun have a fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedster914
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 14, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  BEST Modern Combat game out there
  yo great multi player
  loved it
  i like the rank system and how u get awards and stuff
  very cool, i also have BF2 SF, its cool 
 too
  EA did a good job this time
  i am only a Cpl though
  i got all my basic medals
  REALLY FUN
  ok i gotta have 100 words here...
  
  make sure u have a computer that has all 
 the requirements. read the label to see
  you will have so so so so so much fun fun fun fun fun
  im already a Cpl almost up to a Sgt so 
 get it if you can because it is fun
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zedron33
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  BattleField 2 for the PC has got to be one of the best games I have played to date. EA Games have 
 done such a great job on this game! They graphics and sound can not be any better, and the controls 
 are simple and easy to use! You can use voice or type to your team or everyone in the game.
  
  And not only can you be on foot, but you can also drive boats, helicopters, jets tanks, jeeps 
 and more! There is a big variety in the game. There are tons of multiplayer maps, and more being 
 added in patches. I didn't find much bugs in the game only a few here and there, not serious ones. 
 The bad thing about this game is that you need a good computer to actually play it. Its not like 
 The Sims, you actually need a good GPU, tons of RAM, and CPU. Not to mention enough room on your 
 hard drive!
  
  This is another game to where you can never "win". There is no career or anything, just online 
 multiplayer (or you can do multiplayer with yourself and bots if you wish) so you can keep on playing. 
 There is good support for this game and a really challenging FPS. EA Games, keep up the good work.
 
  
  If you have a good computer, I suggest you buy and play this game as soon as you can if you havent 
 already. If you dont, you are really missing out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oyeah1717
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  The game overall is stunning. If you have a good system you will have soooo much fun. If you have 
 a kikc as* system there will be no lag and you will always have fun. With all the constant effort 
 in approving the game with new updates. The game overall is stunning. If you have a good system 
 you will have soooo much fun. If you have a kikc as* system there will be no lag and you will always 
 have fun. With all the constant effort in approving the game with new updates. The game overall 
 is stunning. If you have a good system you will have soooo much fun. If you have a kikc as* system 
 there will be no lag and you will always have fun. With all the constant effort in approving the 
 game with new updates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prometheus92
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  All I can say in the opening review is WOW! this is one of the best games i have ever played in 
 my life.
  
  The graphics when you get into the game are stunning. It is a fully interactive 3D, rich textured 
 environment that you jump into when you put Battlefield 2 in. Gameplay is good on singleplay, but 
 phenomenal online. Few hackers plague the game thanks to Punkbuster. There is a wide selection 
 of vehicles you can choose from. M1A2's, T-90's, f-35 fighters, helicopters, anti-aircraft guns 
 and many other vehicles are available in this game. This game will be one of the best experiences 
 in your life, and it's nearly orgasmic when you play it! The sounds make for a real ambience/battle 
 ground. It ranges from the propellers on you ship, the ammo hitting the ground, your aircraft slowing 
 down, and the sound of artillery or bombs hitting the ground. A wide variety of levels exist. The 
 max for a level is 64 people, and there a lot of Ranked servers, giving you a sort of feel of being 
 in the ranks.
  
  Pros: The game, just about everything, graphics, sounds, ganeplay, of course there is a neverending 
 value to this game.
  
  Cons: 1 - Lag on servers can cause you to be flying at one point, and then suddenly, it will come 
 back and you will have crashed into the water
  
  Definte buy, get this game and you are sure to be thrilled! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2fasttocatch
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  Firstly this game is made for ONLINE PLAY. Well theres really no storyline exept you start as a 
 private and you work your way up by playing online. Lots of maps and lots of vehicles from helicoptor 
 to dune buggys, AA's, and my essential favorite the M1 Bradley Tank. ice kits like Medics and Support 
 dudes with big chain guns. Difficulty varies. Gameplay 9/10
  
  Graphics are superb my eyes even hurt when i look in the sun. Supriseungly hideous explosions its 
 like you use a ait strike and it looks like a half a pack of C4 went off. Thats a dissapointment. 
 Havent played in a while. but id give it a 7/10
  
  Sound is extrordany. Great helicopters and exellent voices. I love the deep roar of the helicoptors 
 and chain guns when they take off. Its a little spooky when you got the sound turned up and somebody 
 from another squad talkes. It scares the crap out of me. So keep it to a low roar. Sound 9/10
 
  
  Overall 7.8 Good. Worth getting to play on a rainy day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dojomaster1984
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 13, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  Great game that takes you straight into the action, with many different options on the audio, visual 
 and gaming panel.
  This game offers truly great game play, graphics and controllability over the world around you.
 
  It gives the user an all round experience of not just a quick shoot em up, but also of being able 
 to command a troop of your own with the ability to call for auxiliary fire and support or to enable 
 members of your squad to re-spawn onto their position. Or if you do not want the responsibility 
 of ordering and organizing others, then you could simply join the game and play without a squad 
 and play the game in whichever way you want.
  The only factor which lends a hand to making this game hard to use, is the factor of maybe being 
 too hard to get to grips with if you are new to the realm of PC or military games, as it can easily 
 over load some players. So the inclusion of a tutorial would be good into the game (even if it would 
 be allot work trying to find the time to go through all of the commands) . 
  This game is superb and will catch the eye of anyone who like a sound military game.
  !!!!!!!!!!!!!! TOP 
 NOTCH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: max_l0gan
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Great game i have spent ages on this game and it hardly ever gets boring.
  it has great levels and great planes, copper's, tanks jeeps every thing u need in a good war game 
 and the guns u get are really fun to used, takes some time to get used to but it well worth it 
 when u get good. You can unlock guns and medals which really is fun to work towards like gets so 
 many kills, really gives the game a arcade feel. the sniping on BF2 is great to beause of the draw 
 distance i have spent ages shooting people from up cranes and building its so much fun to do. If 
 u dont have this game go to a shop and BUY IT its so great see u online soon... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axw3rm31
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  battlefield 2 is 1 of the best games of 05. the online play and ranking system is almost th best 
 in a pc game ever. it mixes the strategy of commander mode with the action of playing with 63 other 
 people is sweeeeeeeeeeeet!!! mix it with awesome graphics and audio. the only downer is u need a 
 power pc and the lack of single player options sucks but it still nabs a 9.2 in my book. th rank 
 sysem is good because not only can u compare urself to other people but u can get medals and weapons 
 and go from private to first class private to lance corpral. aiso its not too easy not too hard. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10/10
  Amazing graphics for an online FPS. The landscape is especially detailed, with all the shrubbery 
 and signposts actually registering when you run into them. Instead of other games, where these 
 superficial objects aren't actually solid when you run into them, in BF2, these objects act as 
 real as in real life. Each class also has different costumes, which also adds to the realism.
 
  Sound: 10/10
  The radio commands have several different wordings for the same command, making convos interesting, 
 and it also allows a mic, which most multiplayer FPS have now. The car engines and crashes all 
 sound very realistic, with the volume of the crash varying over the intensity of the crash and 
 the engine rev increasing with increased RPM. Great realism added by this surround sound.
  Gameplay: 11/10
  With a multiplayer FPS, there isn't any possible reason for repetition to occur. 
 Every single round would be different in some either small or large way.
  Then, you also have 7 different gunner classes in the game. 
  You could be a Special Ops, with 
 a C4 pack and a semi-auto sniper rifle.
  Or you could be a Sniper, with a bolt action sniper with land mines.
  Then, you could choose 
 the Assault class, with it's heavy armament.
  Other than these, there includes, Engineer, Medic, Support, and Antitank.
  Because of the different 
 classes available, even more strategy and planning could be accomplished.
  There couldn't be enough said about BF2, but I'll end by mentioning the fully interactive vehicles, 
 including tanks, Humvees, helicopters, etc. It is unending fun when trying to chase down enemy 
 troops with a Humvee down a ravine filled with hills and bumps. The great physics incorporated 
 into BF2 cause the Humvee to crash up and down, with you able to choose a driver's view or outside 
 view or drive-along view like in a James Bond movie!
  
  P. S. With all the 10/10 perfect rating already out there on BF2, for those still doubting the authenticity 
 of those ratings, this is yet another proof of the perfect game that BF2 is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystic_Flames
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 10, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Running down that empty hallway and looking for a place to catch my breath seemed like the best 
 action to take at the moment. After fighting off the swarms of enemy units and plugging a rocket 
 right into the under-carriage of that menacing tank, I was fresh out of bullets. Peeking into the 
 distance I could see the constant carnage of gripping confrontations, all just to seize control 
 of a couple of title-less structures. Getting through isnt easy, as looking around every corner 
 and being fully aware is the key to survival. An ambush behind a couple of shrubs, a sudden grenade 
 plopping right next to my feet, or even the flawless precision of a cloaked sniper, each have the 
 devastation to tear me asunder. Wasnt much time to think though as soon the enemy had advanced 
 to my coordinates and looked to take control of the round. Plenty of things cycle through the brain 
 at this point. Should I help back up the artillery unit, before the commander loses his clear scope 
 of the battle? Maybe I can hit that tank blockade and secure the front base before reinforcements 
 arrive.
  
  Pauses are short and the challenges are endless.
  
  Thus is the near flawless multi-player presentation brought forth by Battlefield 2. Strategies 
 and planning all were a part of war and they make up the trials you will face going into each server, 
 each game, each round. Now we have all trudged through the mediocrity of such series as Medal of 
 Honor and the reason it was mediocre was because it wasn't online. It is just when you give a title 
 a ladder system does it become as addictive as a crack induced, online role playing game, unfortunately 
 with the addition of the plethora of twelve year old adolescents. That is not to say you cant 
 find a couple of level headed individuals to join up with. Looking past this, Battlefield 2 is 
 the newest addition to its series with incredible diversity and game-play mechanics brought down 
 only by EA's ridiculous system requirements and sub-par detection system.
  
  That said, what can be more fun than running down a city alleyway with artillery shots ringing 
 in your ears and shotgun shots mowing down dozens of MEC soldiers? Well, only if you are the one 
 doing the shooting. And that is the primary role that you take in this first person, war based, 
 arcade shooter. You have three total country teams based on the Middle East, Chinese, and Americans. 
 Twelve maps ranging from small 16 man urban maps to expansive 64 player regions full of valleys 
 and mountains. And lastly seven different kinds of kits ranging from the calculating engineer to 
 the vehicle ass-kicker that is the Anti-Tank, will each have different objectives for you to fulfill 
 on the field. All there to help set you up for the thousands of players looking to turn your dreams 
 of victory into a nightmare.
  
  The name of the game is manly competition.
  
  Which means there is no single-player mode for you. So, if you are remotely interested so far you 
 will have to play with real people and actually look forward to a challenge my dear loners. There 
 is a solo mode implemented into the mix, but it is just a bot-fest created to teach you the basics 
 of the game. Basics such as how to aim a gun, how to accumulate points, ways to not get shot in 
 the face, and most importantly, how to win the Conquest based round. Which can be done by your 
 team accumulating points to keep your ticket count from going to 0. Accomplished primarily by gunning 
 down enemy soldiers, reviving and resupplying, capturing an enemy base, or repairing one of many 
 vehicle types. As in other online first person shooters we have the classy tank, with the inclusion 
 of; some armored APCs, deadly and obnoxious black-hawk helicopters, and a couple of jets. Wouldnt 
 be a war game without jets right? Thankfully, each unit is well balanced and figuring out their 
 weaknesses is definitely one of the title's strongpoints.
  
  Now currently in Battlefield 2 there is just one game type which is like the classic age-old Capture 
 the Flag cranked up on something similar to steroids. Based on the individual map size, each land 
 mass will have three to ten flags that all need to be captured and held. Each country represented 
 team will also have a ticket count that ticks down every time a player of that team is killed or 
 if flags are lost. So, have an assault soldier mow down the opposition with the support of a hidden 
 sniper, then have a Spec Op capture the flag and diabolically plant some C4 explosives for when 
 those bastards try to re-take it. The game is incredibly team based and takes a steady sense of 
 timing and patience to lead your team onward to victory.
  
  Yet, by patience I not only mean the intense rounds of game-play, but putting up with several off-key 
 detriments along the way. One of which being an occasionally sloppy hit detection system. Picture 
 running down a country road when you spot a sniper amongst some cleverly spaced terrain. You pull 
 out your rocket launcher and see your missile strike the ground right next to him, only to see 
 nothing happened and you two points short. Another seemingly frustrating feature is the teamkill 
 system which is there to punish those damn, ever-apparent, lamers. Nevertheless, the con card will 
 sometimes strike you due to a bug and it will not even be your fault.
  
  Here I am flying a black-hawk full of 4 other teammates and out of nowhere comes a jet from the 
 other team ramming into me at 200 miles per hour. No big deal I think, then I notice that I have 
 negative 15 points and the game blamed me for the death of my whole squad. Crap!
  
  However, aside from a bad occurrence here and there, the game's reward system and updating ladder 
 will constantly keep you trying to improve yourself. Getting more objective badges and unlocking 
 new weapons for online play is a blast and the more you assemble, the greater the advantage you 
 hold. A pseudo-arcade style of combat makes for some realistic tangles and physics with one good 
 sniper shot dropping a soldier, while a sub-machine gun could take four to five. Lastly, speedy 
 response from the servers and the lack of lag for such a monstrous title is incredibly impressive 
 and shows that a great deal of work went into this. It is unfortunate that to run such perfection 
 requires a perfect computer all the same. So, unless you have a job or incredibly forgiving parents, 
 you may not have what you need to get by the steep playing requirements.
  
  Beg my desperate friends, Beg!
  
  If your pathetic groveling pays off and you grab a nice graphics 
 card you are in for some of the most intense graphics today. Beautiful landscapes and waterways, 
 detailed character models, and brilliantly executed lighting and explosion effects all fuse the 
 war experience together with the staple, objective based scenarios. You may just want to take the 
 time to explore every nook and cranny that each of the twelve levels have to offer, as it is nearly 
 worth the price of the game just to look at. From the foggy and haunting streets of Strike at Karkand 
 to the large infrastructures crawling up the side of the Kubra Dam, there is not only plenty to 
 take in visually, but clever strategies to absorb for later matches. Perhaps I should start taking 
 note of those particular mountains; the ones I keep imprudently barreling into.
  
  Anyway, I love this game despite it being my first run through the Battlefield series and hope 
 the remaining sequels are just as good. Repetition can set in because of the lack of additional 
 game modes and map levels, but praise EA that they are putting out an expansion to help broaden 
 the scope. This gem will take some time for you to pick up on and the range of play possibilities 
 make this one a riveting challenge even after forty hours of play time. But, if anything it is 
 this alone that makes it so addicting and by far one of the greatest PC shooters I have ever been 
 able to get my hands on. Just don't blame me if you can't run the game -- I warned you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWEToryu
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 10, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  First time i played BF2 was a demo and i really like it. Now i have the full game and that is good 
 because then i can play on the online.
  It's sad that DICE miss the coop mode but now you can download the coop mode but then you have 
 to have a IP: number from a friend or someone else. Well i wish DICE had put in the coop mode early 
 but nope..
  The single player is poor, you getting very tired of that very fast, you can only play as a 16 
 play map but that have also change now you can download a 64 single player map and then change 
 how the bot shall be like and that is good but sometimes i wish the DICE could down it early but 
 ok is always good to make a download, yeah that is way BF2 never gets a 10 but instead a 9,7 and 
 it's worth it... The sound is great hear cobra flying in the air, bombs dropping down from a airplane, 
 a teammate says where the enemy are, tank is amazing and many more.. Graphics is amazing and better 
 then BF 1942, BF Vietnam of course, see the landscape, the ocean, river, bridge, road and etc... 
 This game has everything oh i almost forget the online that is wonderful, the ranking, to view 
 another player, to get a new weapon, and only play the conquest mode.... So my score to BF 2 is 
 9,7..
  Oh then we have the commander to it's great!
  See you online!! :-) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaunh
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 9, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Although a time sponge, this game and it's well timed expansion packs for me the holy grail of 
 games. I just don't get tired of it. All of my co-workers have played this game since it came out, 
 and by now, we have ususally moved to something else. But the playablitiy factor of this game is 
 something very special; EA has found the special blend of balance to have this game stand up to 
 the test of time. Graphics and sound will always continue to improve. But I'd imagine it would 
 be very hard to trump the user experience much more than what they have already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: driver2ar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 9, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  This game very fun to play, especially online. Th intense 64 online player battles are the best 
 part about this game. Also the game features an intense battle's including light vehicles, jeeps, 
 tanks, copters and lots of variety of weapons. The game can be moded which extends the possibilities 
 further. The graphics are acceptable but could do with a bit of improvement. This depends on what 
 graphics card you have installed. This game uses VOIP messaging which is a good feature for online 
 play. Anyone who likes this first person shooters, i would very much recommend you to get this 
 game. overall i give this game a 9.4 out of 10 because of how the game plays. I like this game 
 very much and could always go a few hours straight on it. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazu13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  EA and Dice have hit the target again with the latest iteration in the Battlefield series, Battlefield 
 2. Grab your M16s, tighten your chinstrap, and prepare for the ultimate military experience.
  
  
  
  Graphically, Battlefield 2 is stunning. The character models, vehicles, weapons, and 
 environments are extremely detailed and well textured. Every inch of the weapons and vehicles are 
 meticulously recreated right down to the rivets on the sheet metal. The grass, trees, rocks, ground 
 cover, and water look amazing. Even the trees are real 3D objects and not just 2D textures mapped 
 on the levels. The lighting, shadows, and volumetric effects are incredibly lifelike. You feel 
 the heat of the desert on your back, you squint to see enemies appearig through the haze, and you 
 hide in the shadow of a doorway waiting to attack. Battlefield 2 is a case where the graphics truly 
 enhance the gameplay experience. Keep in mind, in order to get the most out of the graphics engine, 
 you'll need a very high-end gaming PC. So unless you're willing to shell out some serious cash 
 or start your own gaming website, you'll have to stick to the lower graphic settings. Loading times, 
 especially when you first sign on, can be a beast. Considering how fun the game is, it can be painful 
 to have to sit and watch your client data being verified. The server browser is also buggy and 
 difficult to navigate, making it slow and frustrating to find your server of choice. On another 
 subject, when you take off of a helicopter pad, dust swirls over the ground and palm trees wave 
 in the wind. Damaged vehicles explode multiple times in a cloud of particles and smoke. Tracer 
 fire blazes through the sky and exploded bodies fly through the air like rag dolls. Bullets spark 
 off metal, kick up dust, and splash water. Shellshock from nearby explosions make your ears ring 
 and disorients you. All of these touches to the engine of Battlefield 2 go a long way to making 
 you feel like you're behind enemy lines. All 12 maps have lots of detailed terrain and structures 
 and give you plenty of places to hide behind for cover. For each game size, 16, 32, and 64, the 
 map size changes to keep the action intense. Each map requires a different team strategy to achieve 
 victory. Fight enclosed through hazy city streets, race across the open desert in a buggy, or fly 
 over mountain roads in an Apache. As good as these maps are, even more map variety would have been 
 a welcome addition. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Anyone who has played the last 2 Battlefield games knows that the franchise is built on one thing, 
 solid gameplay. Battlefield 2 raises the bar even higher by adding 2 new key features, squad based 
 play and commander mode. Being an army of one in this game will only get you one thing, killed. 
 In Battlefield 2 you have the choice of fighting for 3 armies, U. S marine corp, Middle eastern 
 coalition, or China. The soldier kits, special forces, sniper, assault, support, engineer, anti-tank, 
 and medic, are the same for all three armies. And while there weapons and vehicles are all different 
 by design, they are functionally the same. What is unique from previous versions, is the complex 
 ranking system that is implemented into online play. Register with the EA server, and your stats 
 will be tracked when you play on any ranked server. The cool thing about the new stats system, 
 is that it rewards team players. An engineer can rack up as many points for fixing his teammates 
 vehicles as an assault trooper can for killing enemies. A good helicopter pilot accumulates points 
 when the minigun operator kills enemy soldiers. Climb up the chain of command from a private first-class 
 to a general and along the way you're awarded with dozens of medals and unlockable weapons. The 
 new sprint feature also promotes team covering tactics as you race to get that crucial mounted 
 gun, and to help ease the pain when you're lost in an open area without a ride. The programmers 
 at Dice spent long hours crunching code to ensure that the handling and firing characteristics 
 are unique to each weapon and vehicle. Land and sea vehicles are very intuitive and easy to maneuver 
 for the novice player. Air vehicles are the hardest to operate. While easier than in previous Battlefields, 
 they still take some time to get used to, especially the helicopters. But, once you've become master 
 of the sky, you'll rain fire from above on enemy troops and vehicles. Also, the weapons have good 
 accuracy in both close and long ranged situations. However, you'll find that the sniper rifle isn't 
 the death cannon that it used to be, which is a slight disappointment since it is very rare that 
 you'll be able to get 2 or more shots with it when you have a moving enemy in your scope unless 
 the enemy is standing completely still. This relegates the sniper to more of a scouting roll while 
 using the scope to spot incoming infantry, or covering your forces. If you want to be effective 
 in Battlefield 2, then join a squad. A squad consists of a squad leader and up to 5 other players. 
 The squad leader is also a mobile spawn point, so if you get killed and your squad leader is still 
 fighting, you can respawn right next to him or inside any vehicle he's traveling in including helicopters 
 and planes. This is very handy for keeping the squad together, so you don't have to walk half way 
 across the map to re-join your unit. The squad leader also has the power to call out commands from 
 a preset menu, remove players from the squad, and is the only member that can speak to the commander. 
 Furthermore, controlling and capturing spawn points is much easier when you fight in a squad. A 
 seasoned squad leader and good squadmates, can insure utter domination when battling online. Finally, 
 playing with a USB headset will allow closed communication between you and your squad, which is 
 a great way to coordinate attacks and adds a whole new dimension of interactivity. like in any 
 military operation, a good chain of command is essential. Squads are only truly effective if you're 
 playing with your buddies or online players that can actually work well with others. The theory 
 of a squad-based system is sound, but in reality, we all know that almost everyone online has the 
 "Every man for himself" mentality. However, the benefits to joining a squad are so great, that 
 this new style of gameplay cooperation might force others to play together just to survive longer 
 online. Commander mode, like squads, is not just a gimmick, but plays a very important roll in 
 battle. A good commander can turn the tide of war and send your enemies running for cover with 
 precision air strikes. At the beginning of a match, you can apply to be the commander of your team, 
 and if multiple people apply for the commander position, then the person with the highest rank 
 will be selected. The commander uses the map screen to control the battlefield, where they have 
 a satellite view of the field, and can zoom into any location within 100 feet above ground. the 
 commander can call in air strikes, command the squad leaders, drop supplies, and allert troops 
 on the ground of enemy positions. Also, you can launch unmanned aerial vehicles, which show your 
 ground forces enemy locations on each player's individual map screens. A commander's view of the 
 field, UAV, and artillery, can all be disabled by taking out key positions of the enemy base with 
 C4 explosives from the special forces kit. Just like the squads, the commander mode is good in 
 theory, but a good commander is just as rare as good teammates. But luckily, since commanders are 
 chosen by the highest rank, you'll usually have someone with at least a cursory knowledge of what 
 to do, and if not, you can initiate a mutiny and impose him. If you're not willing to be a part 
 of a team and follow objectives, then go play Counter-strike. Your team will be crushed if you 
 don't utilize the commander and squad features.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  While it does have it's problems, and is essentially just an updated version of a game that EA 
 has already made twice, it's hard to find fault in a game that is so fun to play. Battlefield 2 
 is the best online military experience money can buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxforever
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 8, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  This is a must buy for anyone who enjoys online gaming. The online ranking system and weapon upgrades 
 you earn will have you coming back over and over. The game allows you to have fun right off the 
 start, just dont expect to be owning the battlefield your second time out. For the experienced 
 players no matter how good you think you are there is always someone in the game that will give 
 you a good run. If you dont want to get addicted to a game dont pick this up..... as for the special 
 forces expansion... not worth it. I was disappointed with the expansion, it didnt seem to have the 
 substance I expected and I find myself playing the original maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nellynoway
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 8, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Here we are again, with our hands of a new installment of the battlefield series... but this time, 
 things has changed..
  Now, Battlefield has become a next gen, futuristic military shooter, and we can't blame them. They 
 have done a bloody good job... again...
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is what you would expect in an online military shooter. With the big open fields and 
 the new graphics, gameplay has been raised. You have a lot of weapons, explosives and arsenals 
 to throw at the head of your enemy's, and it works really well. It takes a little time to master 
 all the different kinds of stuff in this game, but boy, is it worth it!
  
  Graphics:
  Amazing- Thats all i have to say!!
  
  Sound:
  Well.. the sound is ok.. it makes blast sounds 
 and stuff when you push the trigger to make the c4 go boom.. but it's not that revolutionary.
 
  
  Value:
  In the new battlefield 2 on-line play, it's value has taken a big step forward.
  You have ranks 
 now, and you can earn medals, ribbons, weapons and so on.. that makes Battlefield 2 get a really 
 high replay-value. And it's just plain fun. It also haves mic talking (choose able) to ad a more 
 realistic war-feeling experience.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  I think Battlefield 2 is worth a shot for everyone that likes War games, online shooters or just 
 want to try out something new and challenging.
  Now is a good time to give it a try, because it's got a little more affordable over time.
  Oh, 
 and if you are a hardcore Counter-Strike player, you really want to get used to all the big fields 
 you will encounter in this game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codename74
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 7, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  ojkll
  kokoko
  kokok jii uhuhu hbub hb bh gbu h hy y hb v v b b vb b v v b v v b b b b b b b b b b b b bb b f 
 f f r r f f d c v bg f v c v r d c v n h h j k k m m m n n n n nm n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n 
 n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n nn n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n nkokok jii uhuhu 
 hbub hb bh gbu h hy y hb v v b b vb b v v b v v b b b b b b b b b b b b bb b f f f r r f f d c 
 v bg f v c v r d c v n h h j k k m m m n n n n nm n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n 
 n n n n n n n n n n n n nn n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conan223
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 7, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is one of those that you just look at and say," wow, I didn't know you could do that 
 in a game." 
  
  In Battlefield you can drive a variety of vehichles ranging from buggies all the way to jets. You 
 can battle in squads that are managed by a commander giving specific orders on a certain location 
 to attack or if you're even good enough become a commander and give your teammates orders. This 
 game offers a revolutionary online experience. If you're an fps gamer then this is a must have, 
 if you aren't then you should still see what Battlefield 2 has to offer. This is one of the best 
 games of 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renegadedod
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 5, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is utterly amazing. If you are a regular to the Battlefield series/gameplay, you will 
 know what to expect from Battlefield 2: great graphics, awesome gameplay, and totally worth the 
 price. 
  
  Battlefield 2 is set into modern warfare, unlike the other Battlefield games - world war 2 and 
 vietnam. There is not much to say about the game that is already known to almost everyone. All 
 I can do is reccomend this game, and wait for you to join the millions of other people who have 
 already discovered this.
  
  Apparently I must have a minimum of 1000 characters for this, but do not have that yet... this 
 sentence should put me over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Finbo101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 5, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game goes beond what any other game has gone for. Beside some kinks with the loadind only 
 one thing can be said.. its well worth the wait. This game throws in almost everything youd want 
 in a FPS. With Vechicles, varring from Tanks, and humvs to Helicopters and Jets. The game also 
 packs a graphical punch. The game has awsome sound delivered if you have a good enough sound card 
 which most 2year old computers should have. This game has revelutionary graphics.. the only problem 
 is even if you have a modern graphics card your not going to get the full thrust unless you have 
 a Nvidia or Geforce card. Another problem is the steep computer requirements takes the availabilty 
 of playing away. But if your a good shopper you would of made sure your computer made these requirements 
 before you bought it. Other than that the gameplay is awasome. The number of firefights on land 
 and the dogfights you have in the air really steals the show. Another great thing is if you dont 
 want to embaress yourself infront of human players duke it up witht he AI which centruies better. 
 Only one sentence can describe Battlefield 2 in my words "If you have a computer that can put Battlefield 
 at its highest you will expirence a game like no other." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfreak25
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  this game is **** kool with good graphics and the way the commands r kool the gameplay is sometimes 
 gay theirs alot of **** on their that love to shoot their own teammate the medics sometimes dont 
 get their on time .
  
  u probaly ask if its worth spending your money on it well yes it is if u like fun shooting games 
 that is actually challenging and u should bye this game this game is much better than AA or other 
 army games that have a modern setting. U also might encounter problems wit graphic card errors 
 and stuff so I will tell u this- have a good friggin nvidia or Ati because if you don't don't bother 
 playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawgcd
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 5, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Battlefield series since the very first game came out. As each title appeared 
 it just got better. Finally having got my hands on Battlefield 2, I was really impressed with it's 
 intuitive interface, and clever game play strategy. Never before was it possible to engage in battle 
 like you can now with Battlefield 2. The graphics are nothing short of incredible, and the gameplay 
 is highly addictive taking the genre by storm. 
  
  The only draw back I have found is the multi player ability... previous generations of the title 
 have been renowned for being able to have a few players, but still have the ability to play against 
 an army. Unfortunately, unless you have a LAN of 16 - 32 players you won't be able to experience 
 this, unless you have a pretty good internet connection. 
  
  But on the whole the title is remarkable, and if you have a good internet connection, worth the 
 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destroyeron13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is perhaps one of the best multiplayer games available. I personally think it is. 
 It really is a very simple concept, theres a map, on that map is airplanes, helicopters, tanks, 
 buggies, APC, and people. The people choose from classes, such as medic, special forces, support, 
 ect. Every class has its own role and weapon and ability. The maps are diverse, you'll quickly 
 pick out your favourites (the overwhelming majority of people love the city maps like Karkand, 
 Sharqui Peninsula, ect.) . Obviously there is a great deal of vehicle combat, and flying for the 
 first time is usually just as disatrous and putting C4 at your feet an pressing your red button. 
 If you do master flying its a great and fun thing to do. You can also gain weapon unlocks by playing 
 on ranked servers, the higher your rank, the more weapons you have unlocked! I love Battlefield 
 2, give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitsie
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  if i where you I would install battlefield 1942 then download desert combat or something like it 
 and have fun because it is the same but more fun if you play desert combat
  
  okay here is a reason:
  
  hey follow your leader Bot no what are driving that tank to me for? 
 oh no fall back fall dead friendly fire
  
  got it these oaks just are dumb and another reason
  
  just spawned dead
  
  got the strongest 
 gun and spawned behind enemy ahhh die well he is dead now i can peasfully reload hey arent you 
 suppose to be dead you know dead again
  
  so it is frustrating
  
  gotta complain well using my wifes account els@imaginet. co. za there send an email (sorry lost account 
 because of great loss my old one is struck by lightnig this is my new one so dont try ; ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pehota
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I have play Battelfield for a not perid of time but the amazed me by its graphics and gameplay. 
 BF2 is pretty addictive game, eventhough if you get bored by the game you will continue to play 
 it.
  
  TO play BF2 you need a good grafic card like Ge Force but not lower than 6600 series.. or ATI 800 
 x, this is going to be perfect for the game..... Sound is good but i still designers need to work 
 on it.
  
  Gameplay is marvelous, and you will experience modern style combat but in virtual reality. LOL. 
 I still hate the health thing in BF2... To kill a person you need to shot him many times, you will 
 spend couple rounds before you will see your enemy dead. Its not Operation Flashpoint where one 
 shot in leg and you lose ability to walk. Weapons are good, my favorites are AKs and Sniper stuff.
 
  
  In general the game is Well made 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sprizz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 12:17 am PT
Review:  This is the best comp. game i've ever played, it has awesome graphics and sound. it has the uniqe 
 ability for your character to fly jets and helecopters that are really easy to control. I highly 
 recommend this game to ppl who like a great first person shooter. There is only one little thing 
 after it is installed, when i tried to play it, the screen turned black and went back to my desktop 
 and never entered the game. I'm sure this is just a little bug and tomm. i am callin' EA GAMES 
 and askin' them if they know what it is but besides that it's perfect. When u are playin' online,, omg,, 
 it feels like u are in the middle of WAR. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phanth0m
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 3, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is the sequel to the great hit Battle Field:1942 which is set in the modern age with 
 the factions. The Americans, MEC (Middle Eastern Coalition) , and the Chinese. The Graphics are 
 outstanding in this game, gorgeous environments with fantastic lighting and attention to detail. 
 The game also boasts the maps themselves, as they contain many passage ways but are scaled down 
 so that constant firefights are always going down. The single player in this game is a little lack 
 luster as it only features unintelligent, un reactive bots that are to easy to fight and can barley 
 survive flying or driving. What made the original so great was the amount of vehicles ranging from 
 Airplanes to Submarines, and the sequel has proved to be just as good if not better. Each faction 
 has it's own set of Jets, Helicopters, Boats, Tanks, Jeeps, etc. This game is far from picture 
 perfect however, the browser system in game can make you want to grab the nearest object and repeatedly 
 smash your skull in. Also lag is a huge issue with the servers as players are jumping all over 
 the place and vehicles are crashing every which way. The biggest problem most people are noticing 
 are the amount of un-fixed bugs, such as un-responsive guns, bad hit boxes, experience not saving 
 (which are used to access new game content) , physics issues. The game play however manages to keep 
 this game a great one, this game also keeps you on the edge of your seat wanting more, and with 
 a new expansion out and another one comming, this game is a must buy for any FPS fan of the original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyed
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 3, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Ok. I rarely play FPSs on pcs, but this game just hooked me. I can jump in a jet, take it clear 
 across a level, parachute out, destroy enemy radar, steal an enemy tank, demolish an enemy base 
 until someone tosses C4 on my armored vehicle, and die with a smile.
  
  This game has a future much akin to Everquest. Pale, glazed-over eyes, and a fantastic computer 
 will be the attributes of any Battlefront player. A fantastic computer is what you will need in 
 order to play this game, since the last few computers I've tried to play this game with have not 
 been able to operate it. I have been able to play this game, though, only by paying by the hour 
 at a pc gaming center. By the hour... ouch.
  
  The controls are all good or bad depending on how you make of them. I suggest you find a setting 
 that suits you best and stick with until you can perfectly make a running jump, since that is probably 
 the hardest maneuver to pull of on a computer keyboard for me.
  
  The graphics are beautiful, but can certainly be a heavy load on your pc's processing power. Trudging 
 across a wide river on foot is a lot easier when the water effects make you wanna go to the little 
 boy's room.
  
  Game play is fantastic. Take your pick from the stinger missile shooting anti-tank kit to the electric 
 shock paddle toting medic kit. Each have their share of weaknesses and strengths, but they are 
 all in their own way balanced. Even when things get somewhat tedious, you start to get unlocks 
 that will level the playing field.
  
  I've played FPSs all my life and this game is definitely a whole lot deeper than any Wolfenstein 
 or Halo i've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrdgreen
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Funnest Game Ever in this entire World!!! and this action game has mass greatness of weapons... 
 u can also kamikaze... !!! WARNING: DO NOT ATTEMPT KAMIKAZES UNLESS U WANT TO LOSE TEAM TICKETS 
 JUST TO KILL PEEPS!!! Alright U got the game right? If not ur missing the action!!!!! So Come on 
 buy the game u idiots!!!! Funnest Game Ever and rocks the entire world!!! Best Modern Action  
 Think we are jokeing!? Come on people play the game its the best best best best best best best 
 best best best best game ever! Heres some tips in game. Do Not kill teamates... play fair... dont 
 kill friends to kill others.... dont kill teamates with kamikaze without permission from your squad 
 leader or someone on your team thats squad leader (s) or commander.... if u can... kamikaze like 
 maximum tanks if they are all togethor or just ''A'' tank. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 2, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is the direct sequel to Battlefield 1 (obviously -_-) but brings in many more factors 
 and attributes that we have not seen in the previous versions of this game. The online gameplay 
 to this game is quite thrilling along with many more options when you are in squads give this game 
 a very life like touch to it. In a way it can be considered as one of the most realistic battle 
 simulators right now that are out there on the gaming markets. I would definately recommend this 
 game to anyone who is interseted in interested in playing a game that is quite chaotic where you 
 can suprise your foes at any turn. However as this is a computer game the most essential portion 
 to smoothly running this game dwells within its own special need of the best systems to run it. 
 All alienware computers should be able to run this smoothly, but how about those people who can't 
 afford anything that is alien ware related? This game has quite a high standard in order to run 
 it which may turn away certain gamers who don't have the right amount of stats on their computers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russian8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 1, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is just one of those games that it may just be fight fight fight but it is just plain 
 fun and full of action.
  the graphical quality of the game isn't as good as i would have expected for a game with all the 
 hype but hey it's the game not the graphics.
  the sounds are frightingly realistic as you actually feel as if you are in the middle of the battle 
 as missles and bullets pelt your weak feble body.
  the gameplay is the basic for any other action first person shooter but they make it better with 
 all the possible things you can control and who you can be. the choice of weapons is still as refreshing 
 as in the original battlefields. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocky08
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 1, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Online game play features up to 64 players to a server, more than a dozen maps, and new downloads 
 are added frequently. You can rent and bookmark servers and keep track of all of your stats online 
 at EA. com. Single player mode never gets boring. It is so realistic and everything is just perfect 
 with this game. I could play all night every night and the game would still be interesting. The 
 X-BOX version is awesome too and I play that all of the time online. This game is one of the best 
 games by EA and they are doing a great job. They have been coming up in the past couple of years. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crunch163
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  A very Great game all around. You have 3 army to choose from and plenty of maps which can include 
 APCS, Tanks, Humvees, Jets, Attack Choppers and transport choppers. You start out as a private and 
 work your way up to 2nd luteninent. You can either choose to be a medic, support soldier, assult 
 soldier, engineer, or a spec ops soldier, anti-tank or sniper. You also have the chocice of joing 
 a squad or being the commander you have more of a chance of getting the job as a commander. Overall 
 this is the best game I have ever played. The sound is outstanding you can hear tanks guns heals 
 revives everything... graphic you have to experience to describe in my opinion.
  
  so what are you sitting around looking at my review for GET OUT AND GET THIS GAME SOLDIER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  The Battlefield 1942 series was always one of the better, fast paced multiplayer series out there 
 that featured some of the best moments in gaming. Now the series is coming to the modern battlefield 
 with Battlefield 2. This is a brilliant new direction for the series and Battlefield 2 features 
 some jaw dropping visuals and lots of fun, fast paced, multiplayer action around.
  
  Battlefield 2 has some huge numbers you can have on each battlefield. 64 players can hook up together 
 and challenge each other over the internet or offline. You can even use headsets to talk to each 
 other instantly. You can also create new characters and personally level up that character and 
 make him stronger. The big problem is that sometimes the servers can chug at times, but thats 
 it. Once you get on a good server and youre leveling up, it becomes one of the best online experiences 
 since Unreal tournament 2004.
  
  The vehicles are also well done. There are very modern looking and control very well, although 
 the flying was a bit spotty, especially in the new jets. It can be fun, but just be ready to crash. 
 The series signature capture the flag style gameplay hasnt changed and although there really isnt 
 that many maps (only about a dozen) , all of them are very well done and feature lots of gripping 
 action that will keep you on the edge of your seat.
  
  Basically, you start out on either the American or MEC/China side and then pick your weaponry. 
 Just like the previous entries, you can choose between lots of different classes, such as: assault, 
 medic, or anti-tank. Depending on what you choose, youll get a unique type of weaponry. Although 
 the 1942 series had lots of different classes too, the anti-tank was the best to choose most of 
 the time because it had a rocket launcher. Now the classes have been evened out, and even the medic 
 has a crappy machine gun that makes them rely on the 200 bullet count of the assault class.
  
  The graphics in this game are flawless. Although you need a rather high end PC to get the most 
 out of them, once you do the graphics look phenomenal. Everything is very detailed and beautiful 
 to look at and I really loved how the frame rate never dropped, even with 64 player blazing combat. 
 The draw distance is equally impressive; this is one nice looking game.
  
  The sound is right up there with the graphics. Although the footsteps of you running can be a bit 
 tedious at times, really its pretty nice; I liked how the weapons had all their own type of sound. 
 But yeah, the loud footstep that always makes you feel like youre in a puddle of water is kind 
 of weird.
  
  Battlefield 2 is practically flawless, with the beautiful graphics, excellent presentation, and 
 replay value with that RPG like upgrading, FPS style, Battlefield 2 might just be the new definition 
 of insomnia.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphawolf102
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 1, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  What makes BF 2 one of the best games of the year is the shure size of it. The maps are huge. You 
 feel as if you are a small spec in this huge battle taking place around you. You have no idea what 
 is going to happen next maybe somone will snipe your head off or having artirally raining down 
 upon your head. The game is nothing but action and if you plan on buying a game with a single player 
 experiance you should probably move to teh next game. The multi-player is huge up to 64 players 
 with almost no lag at times. When the games starts going I mean really starts going you can stick 
 with this thing for five hours at a time or be like and go 16hours. See the maps are so huge that 
 battles seem rare but when they do happen they are great. Like when you and 20 other people try 
 to defend the 1 post they are going to take over. They send in 3 tanks and you have 1. Those are 
 truely memeraible moments and they are sure to happen once a game. The graphics are also pretty 
 good I suggest at least a gig of ram and a ATi 800 or Nvidia 6800 if not you may not get the true 
 experiace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anticlaus
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 31, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  A good successor to BF2, but it's easy to see EA trimmed stuff out to get the product out the door. 
 They removed all the navel combat stuff. Can't drive ships. The Helos and planes are almost indestructible 
 and badly over powered. One Helo can walk the map. Patches have been VERY few and FAR between. 
 EA is more interested in making expansions and bonus packs, to make a buck, then fix problems. 
 Game play is Run-n-Gun. Fun, but get's old. Ranking players and giving medals/awards is nice, but 
 you have to pay $$$ to run a ranked server. Not cool, but the only way they can keep it under control. 
 Definitely a product to make EA money as opposed to a "work of art". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jadedcell01
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 30, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a wondrous achievement from EA and Dice. Graphically superior to many that have 
 come before it and a versitility and experience that remains largely unmatched.
  
  You can control just about any type of military vehicle conceivable, from small buggies to roaring 
 jet planes. The different classes play well if used together appropriately, and the implementation 
 of squads and a commander is something to behold when it is done properly. The VOIP is an extremely 
 useful in game tool allowing quick, seamless communication of orders/strategies within squads and 
 between squad leaders and commanders.
  
  This, however, brings me to the low point. There are precious few players out there who actually 
 use the VOIP tool effectively, if at all. Too often squads are reduced to a pack of lone wolfs 
 attempting to rack up the kills and not thinking about a strategic or tactical plan. It quickly 
 saps the fun from the game, especially when playing as a support role (medic/support/engineer) 
 constantly finding yourself lost in battle with little cover, or hope of survival.
  
  This aside, when the squad is purring, this game is something to behold. Sides with squads working 
 in tandem, defending, attacking and decoying are often racking up the points and will win the day. 
 
  
  Sound is great, capturing the meatiness of the heavier classes of guns, satisfying explosions and 
 the noises of bullets whizzing past at a million miles an hour is great. No music in the game, 
 which is a little disappointing, but hardly noticeable as the action is non-stop. 
  
  Another disappointing feature is the lack of environmental damage one can wreak. Tanks can fire 
 rounds into weedy palm trees and not do an ounce of damage, they can also ram into rickety tin 
 fences which seem to be able to stand the force of a couple of tons of steel smacking into them 
 at full pelt. Also, if you're in a plane (asuming you can master the difficult control for them) 
 don't fly too low, because apparently palm tree leaves can cause a multi-million dollar fighter 
 jet to spontaneously explode.
  
  These are small foibles in the game, there are also some other bugs, which some have exploited 
 to their maximum, only to be kicked off servers or even have their stats reset. But if you can 
 find a good squad, then you are in for one hell of a ride and I cannot recommend this game highly 
 enough! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fjgamespot
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  The best multiplayer (online) game ever. Lots of fun, never get tired.
  
  If you have the requirements for this game, BUY IT, if you dont achieve the requirements (such 
 as graphic cards) , then get them and BUY IT.
  
  This game never ends, every map is different and many combat situations can be produced, all different. 
 Best of all, you dont need to be a pilot expert to fly a jet, or a helo. If playing with a good 
 graphics card, you would experience the best combat situations, dinamic shadows, no pixel curves, 
 dust in your Hummers windshield (really cool) , etc...
  
  It also includes a new game mode, commander, to help your troops on their victory. The commander 
 has "his toys", artillery, UAV (radar) , scan support, and supplies drops.
  
  If you have it PLAY and ENJOY, if you dont, BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAMPANERIA
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: SP is practice MP is were this game shines but the gameplay to me fell short, I feel 
 counterstrike or halo2 or even halflife2 is much more appealing to me but if you dig this game 
 sure your love it. I kno a few fellas that do.
  
  Graphics: Amazing but fell short in MP I was expecting more detail and more shadows ect... only 
 part which looked amazing is water and some levels look better then others like detail them all 
 to a certion point.
  
  Sound: 9 had nice sound effects no music but one that replays over and over and in game its just 
 you and the wilderness and a dozen comrats saying comands over and over... grrrr my favorite (shoot 
 own player... then comand "sorry" over and over never got old)
  
  Value: 10 because once you get it there endless hours to play massive online and if you love the 
 game your in for hours of fun... unlike me I didn't personally dig the style and the maps were nicely 
 big but the action was easy to find, more time running and driving to find someone to shpot yet 
 when you die your getting shot from everyside and are dum strucked like who the .... killed me.
 
  
  I find it hard that EA had something to do with this game, sure I love NFS series and Burnout but 
 for FPS I'm suprised till the next installment which should be next gen till then I'm a bit dissapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonger656
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2006 11:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for anyone who likes multiplayer strategic shooters. The graphics are amazing 
 and wut i like most about them is that you can see the distinctions between everyithing. The terain 
 is great because you can use anything to your advantage. The sound its a little simple and i say 
 this because all the s, tanks, and etc. weaponry sound the same between each other. The single 
 player is like training course to get better so that when you are on the battlefield you can actually 
 score some points. I totally recommend this game. Its a bit pricy but get it any ways because its 
 just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heyitsthemole
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  OK, let me just start with the graphics of this game. UNBELIEVABLE! Im running on a 256 pci and 
 it STILL looks GREAT! The character models look perfect except when they are walking backwards. 
 They look like they are moving about 2 mph, but when you are running you feel like you are running 
 like 5. (=D) There are about 30 different vehicles that you can get in and drive. Some are the 
 same but it is still nice to have a varity. NOw controling some of the vehicles is another thing. 
 I find myself jumping into a plane or helicopter from time to time and taking it for a little tour 
 into the wall on the left or right unintentionally. 
  
  The sound of this game is good. Nothing special but good. The main menu screen song is very tidous 
 i must say, but there is nothing like hearing rounds from an ak-74 being shot out of a barrel.
 
  
  Gameplay single player is ok. They only give you a few maps to work with and they are very small. 
 But multiplayer is another story. The multiplayer speaks for itself. It is a perfect sequel from 
 battlefield 1942 with some extra stuff. My favorite was the different squads that you could be 
 put into. There is one squad leader of many squads and a commander that is the leader of all squads. 
 While in a squad you are given options such as respawn near your leader. Also when in a squad you 
 dont have to listen to the 4 year old kid that keeps clicking the button 'Enemy Spotted' 5000 times 
 for the sake of his amusement. Instead you only recieve intercom messages from within the squad. 
 This game is microphone compatable, but like intercom can only be heard within a squad. 
  
  There are 3 armys to play as, The MEC (middle east) USMC (america) and China (duh...) . The MEC 
 and Chinese forces have identical weapons. The only difference between the 2 is that i find myself 
 turning off the voice sound when playing as the chinese. The MEC i can deal with. Another good 
 thing about this game is that there is no over-powering army. All forces are equal. People tend 
 to join the USMC over the MEC or China, but comon we live in America, what do you expect!?!
  
  Over all, Battlefield 2 is a great game. What lacks in singleplayer is made up for in multiplay. 
 Please note though that you will need a fairly strong graphics and internet connection to play 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falcon33949
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is, overall, a terrific game. Graphics are terrific, pushing even my GeForce 6800 
 GT to its limits, sound is equally impressive, and combat is totally adjustable to each players 
 skills. By that I mean maps are large enough and combat zones are spaced enough that if you need 
 a breather for five or ten seconds, no problem. If you want to be in the middle of a meat grinder, 
 well, thats the point of FPS games like this, isn't it? My only possible complaint is the total 
 lack of any true kind of single player mode or campaign. The single player in Battlefield 1942 
 was great, but starting with Vietnam the Battlefield series seems to have misplaced its single 
 player mode. I mean, sure there's "single player" in 2, but it gets boring just playing the same 
 maps with a size restriction and with only bots. This is a serious issue for, say, a college student 
 who only has a good enough connection when he's home to play multi-player. In short, if you're 
 looking for great single-player action (or happen to be one of those sad individuals still on dial-up) , 
 then that is the only reason you wouldn't buy this game over, say, F. E. A. R. or HL2 or some such. 
 At the least you will get bored early and transfer it to the bookshelf; more likely you would be 
 making a trip to EB Games and probably buying one of those other titles. Outside of that, however, 
 I am under the impression that Battlefield 2 is the closest thing we have to the perfect online 
 FPS thus far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zpate
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 27, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  This is an AMAZING GAME! EA GAMES has thought of everything. Only down side is that you need some 
 hefty sys requirements. The game has the best of everything, from guns to vehicles to the great 
 and breathing-taking maps. The best part about the game for me is the UNLOCKS. I love getting new 
 medals, ribbons, unlocking new weapons and moving up in rank. That is, what i think, is one of 
 the best features of the game. The sounds of the game are also outstanding; every gun, vehicle, 
 and pace of soldiers sounds different. Anyone who gets this game will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 27, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  The Good : That's it EA really did it they changed the whole graphical view of this game , & they 
 also used a high definition sound effects that requires today's best sound cards to play them (X-Fi 
 Sound Blaster) , which caused the gameplay to change to a fantastic experience that you get especially 
 during online play .
  
  The Bad : This game requires a full computer with full technology in it weather that it is an AMD 
 64 or an Intel Extreme to the quantity & quality of the RAMS to kind of Graphic & Sound card , 
 & that's all you can play it at high , so each time you change something in the graphics weather 
 you have a 512M or 1G or 2G ram at the end the loading of the map will take minutes to start because 
 they are processing the shader technology .
  And that's not it during the playing of the game m the player get lost & mostly alone due the fast 
 AI in this game , the AI is mostly focused on attacking so they leave you behind , so if you are 
 not fast you will not make it to the fight thus it is over .
  
  At the end , I suggest this game to those who look to play it online or LAN but they must have 
 a highly advanced computer , while those who have a poor computer & those who wants to play it 
 alone (Single playing) I don't suggest it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goda
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 27, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  Well thay have done it thay took delta force and Suped it up 10,000 fold I could not beleve This 
 game i've played just about every Fighing game like this but never this good the graf's are kick 
 ass in your face real time and very well done. i would have to say with out a dout this is the 
 Best game of it's time in years 2 tumbs up.
  Ok lets just say to play this game nice you need one kick ass computer staring with the CPU AMD 
 3400 MIN 1024MB of PC400 DDR RAM
  ANd at lest one Nvida 7800GT or for the best 2 nivida 7800GT SLI cards
  And if you have the money 
 a 2MS 19inch LCD Now for the sound XFI all the way 7.1 500W sound Now your playing.
  But you can play it with a older computer as well MIN REC
  Pent 2.4GHZ 1024 PC400 DDR Or 512 
 PC800 RD RAM
  And a Nivida FX5800 or Rad 9800 128 MB
  Buy this game you'll love your slef for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jshow519
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  WOW!! this game is amazing. The gameplay the graphics the sound all are beautiful. All i can say 
 is GO BUY THIS GAME IT ROCKS!!!!!!! I cant think of anything wrong with it its possibly the best 
 FPS ive ever played on the PC. The maps are intense. The progress is so cool and i love how i can 
 be commander or join squads. This game has it all i believe. Me and my cousin play it for like 3 
 hours straight i actually keep are attention for that long! I havent had a game keep my attention 
 for that long in a while. Like i said GO BUY THIS GAME NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatr1990
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Great game. It is so amazing! Great game. It is so amazing! Great game. It is so amazing! Great 
 game. It is so amazing! Great game. It is so amazing! Great game. It is so amazing! Great game. 
 It is so amazing! Great game. It is so amazing! Great game. It is so aGreat game. It is so amazing! 
 Great game. It is so amazing! mazing! Great gameGreat game. It is so amazing! Great game. It is 
 so amazing! . It is so amazing! Great game. It is so amazing! Great game. It is so amazing! Great 
 game. It is so amazing! Great game. It is so amazing! Great game. It is so amazing! Great game. 
 It is so amazing! Great game. It is so amazing! Great game. Great game. It is so amazing! Great 
 game. It is so amazing! It is so amazing! Great game. It is so amazing! Great game. It is so amazing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony110
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 comes from the very popular Bf Vietnam. Unlike now we have todays weapons to play 
 with. We have everything from M4 to Jackhammer. There are several kits you can choose from and 
 they are: SpecOps, Assault, Sniper, Support, Medic, AntiTank and Engineer. If u play ranked you 
 will unlock weapons as you proceed with ranking and you can unlock two different weapons on each 
 kit. There are over 20 ranks in the game and it will take you thousands of hours to get them all. 
 You can play as The Us Navy force, The republic of China, Mec and if you buy the official user 
 you can also play as the European force. Playing ranked is much more entertaining then playing 
 unranked but, notice that it's much more difficult to play ranked so you should practice unranked 
 for a while.
  
  The game look very good generaly if you have everything on high it will be very clear.
  
  The 
 sound in the game very good and teamspeak and squad speak is added into the game.
  As i said the game takes over thousand hours to comeplete so it will hold you for a couple of years. 
 I recommend the strongest to buy this game and maybe we can play together sometime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is the only game in the series I have played. Now that I've played Battlefield 2, 
 I eagerly look forward to the next installment in the series. Battlefield 2 is an online game that 
 features realistic modern combat, vehicles including choppers and jets, and hours of fun. This 
 game has such variety in its levels and so many awesome moments that it won't get boring. The graphics 
 in Battlefield 2 are excellent. The guns and character models look great. The environments are 
 really good as well. Pretty much everything in this game looks good. The game has great audio, 
 the guns sound good, the other effects are great. Since it's an online game, it really doesn't 
 get dull. Every person you fight is different so the game is never predictable. The intense action 
 and variety of gameplay make this game a must-have for all shooter fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tompouce
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 26, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  Intro
  
  First, this game is to nice. Its so good with all the great graphic and all the great weapons but 
 for sure there is some default and its what I'm giong to tell about. I like the A. I. in this game 
 because its so powerfull and so great to deal with, a bit like Quake 4.
  
  Weapon
  
  The great weapon in this game is the is the M4 because its like in counter-strike, its easy to 
 use and its the most destructive. The vehicules weapons is just like so cool... well any-way the 
 tank is to hard to use but the jeep machine gun is cool.
  
  Enemies
  
  The enemies are just like hard to kill. I always put the difficulty at hard because its making 
 you more challenge and I see it very quickly.
  
  Allies
  
  Youre team in this game a so scared (they are **** They are not courageous and you always have 
 to do the first step in a level. This is the big default that I see in this game
  
  Conclusion
  
  Finally its very cool to play Battlefield online and if u want to play with me 
 just come in my Gamespot account and ask me my nick name 
  
  AH!!!!!!!!!! GULAHH!!! DWARF!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_popwwe
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  What makes Battlefield 2 so good to play? Why are people queuing up to buy this program and why 
 have over one million copies already been sold? 
  
  All questions best answered in a slapdash fashion - because it's ace!
  
  Battlefield 2 is an 
 action packed, realistic first-person perspective war game that follows its precursor's lead (Battlefield 
 1942) but brings a range of new features to the table. 
  
  It depicts modern electronic-aided warfare, rather than the WWII era of the original Battlefield, 
 and this time the gameplay is even better, and the graphics more visually stimulating.
  
  By combining the best features of first person shooter gaming into a single title, Electronic Arts 
 have made it clear with Battlefield 2 that it is aiming to take the multiplayer gaming experience 
 to a whole new level. Bringing together visual enhancements, such as dynamic lighting, the game 
 as a whole is a much more enticing package, and a welcome addition to the landscapes of Battlefield 
 1942.
  
  There are also multiple classes of soldiers and kits including Special Forces, Sniper, Assault, 
 Medic, Anti-tank, Engineer, Support roles. There have also been some communication enhancements 
 that improve player interaction during online play. In addition to the multiple roles, there are 
 also three teams to choose from: the U. S., Chinese, or Middle East Coalition troops. Each team 
 has their own arsenal of weapons, and there are pros and cons for all three.
  
  
  Ruined cities feature big in Battlefield 2,
  and make for some very intense fire-fights
  
 
  Previous Battlefield titles lacked any form of integrated voice communication. This was resolved 
 with players using software such as Teamspeak or Roger Wilco. 
  
  However, those players not in the same voice channel or server as the rest of their team had to 
 resort to typing, which is rather hazardous when in the middle of a battle! Battlefield 2 combats 
 this by including full VOIP support.
  
  There are two voice channels in the server. The first allows you to talk to other players in your 
 "squad" (up to 6 players) , and is activated using the default V key. 
  
  Secondly, the squad leader is able to communicate with the Commander, using the B key in order 
 to coordinate attacks, request supplies, etc. 
  
  The game's developers, DICE, haven't forgotten about the text-based chat though. Battlefield 2 
 messages are now available in a variety of colours. This allows you to see at a glance, if the 
 messages are coming from your buddy, your squad, your commander, or even your enemies. Being able 
 to quickly and correctly identify intelligence can make all the difference on the battlefield. 
 
  
  Another new feature that Battlefield 2 brings to the Battlefield series is the brand-new 'Commander' 
 mode. Not unlike systems seen in the Tribes games among others, the general idea behind this is 
 a simple Real Time Strategy interface, embedded into the first person shooter. If you're the designated 
 Commander on the server, you can press Caps Lock and bring up the Command interface, similar in 
 design to the spawn interface of previous Battlefield games. From there you can perform a number 
 of tasks: 
  
  Field Scan: Locate all enemy combatants and marks them with a red dot
  UAV Scan: Performs a Field Scan and then forwards the Intel report to your teammates in the area. 
 Useful for locating and eliminating any last pockets of resistance
  Artillery Strike: Drops accurate artillery fire on to your chosen target
  Ammo/Equipment Drops: 
 Keep your troops fully stocked to ensure victory
  
  Battlefield 2 is a very big game, with more latitude than most other war games. If you don't want 
 to sit on the grassy knoll with your sniper-rifle in hand, you can always jump into an attack helicopter 
 or a jet fighter and rain fire on the opposition - all while chatting in real time. A very impressive, 
 very realistic and utterly huge combat title well worth looking at if you have a quick PC and a 
 broadband connection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roonagraphics
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 24, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is one of a kind of all the online war games i have seen it is the best altho i get 
 my a** handed down to me at times i just get more eager to take out my enemies in many ways from 
 an F-1 jet pilot to being a sniper this game has so many varities that can match your taste. the 
 moment you spawn to the field you better get ready for battle this game incorporate real live sound 
 and visual effects of war in the 21th century, you can chose to be commander and take control of 
 your squad or go solo and fight by yourself, this is the kind of game you should get if your looking 
 for a online war game with so many things to try you'll get a positive experience when your thru 
 with the game thinking you actually came from war. if anyone has a gamertag for battlefield and 
 would like to have a few rounds with me just leave me a message with your name and i will let you 
 know when i am available. roonberg is my name tag for BF2 (BeeF2) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 483paul
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 24, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The games core is simply built around multiplayer. It is an online game. If you can't 
 play online you will have a single player game against AI bots. Which can be fun for awhile but 
 not near the experience online. The game is a battle area where you are trying to capture flags. 
 The one with the most flags basically wins. Its a very simple concept but when you throw in the 
 trucks, planes, and helicopters its very exciting!
  
  Graphics: This game looks great! The battlefields are huge. Vehicles explosions gun fire all look 
 great! The animations of the soldiers look real. 
  
  Sound: My friend was in the army and heard the sounds of BF2 and was amazed how good they sound 
 compared to the real thing. The sound is crisp! 
  
  Value: This is a game to buy to own. When you start playing online you will want to have this game. 
 You can go up in ranks and open new weapons to use with the different classes of soldiers. This 
 game is very entertaining and unlike anything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDWilliams05
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 23, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  This is the first FPS multiplayer game that made me say out loud, OH MY GOD THIS IS WILD." I 
 have found myself playing this for hours recently. But as with all my other reviews I have done 
 on this great site, let's get down to buisness.
  
  First of gameplay: I don't think it matters if you have memorized every map and have played this 
 game a million hours, as long as you can find a group on a server that is just as hardcore as yourself, 
 you will never play a game the same way twice. The squad setup is nice, it allows you to tell you 
 squad where you want to go, and where the commander wants to go, however, you don't have to follow 
 a squad, you can be a lone wolf if you want, and go at it alone. The only thing I don't like about 
 the game is there is only one type of game: Conquest. They need to bring back the other classics 
 in an update or expansion. Capture the flag would be wild, or a classic attack and defend mode. 
 I know the whole control points is really a capture the flag variant but I like the classics as 
 well. Another problem is even with a high end machine load times take some time. Its well worth 
 the wait, but i think the wait can be a little long sometimes. Another thing that can be discouraging 
 even though its the best possible setup, the flying vehicles are a little tough getting used to, 
 but once you get the hang of it, you can really fly like a Top Gun pilot.
  
  Graphics: for a first person shooter, the characters are awesome, they all move correctly and are 
 animated just right, the dust effects from a bullet striking the wall or ground are crazy, just 
 as well with the smoke and debris effects. The most striking thing i think about battlefield 2 
 graphics wise is the close explosion blurs you vision just slightly to give just the right disorientation 
 effect, a rather nice touch to say the least. the vehicles are animated quite well also, graphically 
 for the amount of people on the map at a time, and with all the vehicles as well as the texturing 
 of the enviroment, it plays great with awesome graphics, again WOW....
  
  Sound: This is always an important thing for me. The sound is great, shots are fired with fulness, 
 and a distinctivness that is different from each weapon, tanks and vehicles have great sound effects, 
 and as with the coolest little thing that really brings the realism is the ringing noise from a 
 close by explosion. A very nice touch. The one thing that kinda kills it for me, is the server 
 doesn't add a radio effect to anyone speaking, it kinda takes away from the realism a little bit. 
 if the server could add just a little radio static that would be a nice little touch as well.
 
  
  Value: This in itself makes battlefield 2 worth the buy, with the persistent character in multiplayer 
 mode, which can earn awards, and the fact that the game itself is so replayable, because of the 
 kind of game it is, this game has not just hours but months and years of playability, (or until 
 battlefield 3 comes out LOL)
  
  Tilt: I am going to tilt all the way on this simply because its refreshing to beable to drive, 
 walk, fly, and swim in a FPS military sim game. So thats worth alot in my book. Even though the 
 server selection system isn't as full featured as it should it gets the information across that 
 you need to choose the game and get into the action as fast as you can, which is a plus, even though 
 it doesn't have all the features you would want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionBob
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 23, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game that hasn't been said in many other reviews.
  Well I'll go over both the good and bad of this game which is more good then bad.
  Starting on 
 the bad first and working my way to the good.
  This game isn't perfect and some examples of this are the servers list which to say the least can 
 take forever to find a server you can play on.
  They're currently quite a few flaws in the game and some balancing issues.
  Lucky this isn't 
 the end of the world because good old EA are coming up with patchs to fix some of these issues.
 
  Loading times are really long and can take forever just to get into the game however this isn't 
 that bad once you've found a good server in which the wait is well worth it.
  Now onto the good this game does a ton of stuff right.
  Amazing battles whether it be in the 
 air, land or sea.
  This game is one of the few where a commander isn't just the highest ranked but instead actually 
 helps his team to victory through doing many different task whether it dropping supplys or calling 
 artillery strikes even telling the squads where to go.
  Squad based combat is fun and addictive however I would've of like it if the squad commander had 
 more control then just taking orders and acting as a mobile control point for his squad.
  This dosen't bother me however because where the true fun lies is the battles and they're excellent 
 to say the least. 
  Whether its a more urban style or more open field each map offers something great.
  What makes 
 the game even more addictive is the fact that certain vehicles, such as the helicopter and jet 
 take time to master so your rewarded for your time and effort.
  What makes this even more fun is unlike other games where the vehicles completely dominate those 
 without.
  This isn't the case in this game the people on the ground can be just as important as those in 
 the air or in a tank.
  Each one serves they're purpose for the ultimate goal of beating the other team.
  Overall I suggest 
 this to any fan of online fps's this is money well spent for the amount of gameplay you can get 
 out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunman357
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 23, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Well i've played a lot of shooters over the years, and Battlefield 2 definetely stands out. It took 
 me a while to get to play it due to punkbuster, but once i got it working, i could'nt stop playing!!!! When 
 you start playing, you can choose between 7 different classes to fight as,
  
  1: special forces
  2: sniper
  3: assault
  4: support
  5: engineer
  6: medic (which i prefer)
 
  7: anti tank
  
  Graphics are great, sound is awesome, gameplay reminds me of the earlier shooter "joint operations" 
 which is incredibly addictive. During the time I spent playing this game (which is probably hours 
 at a time) , I managed to get to be a corporal in the ranks!!!!! If you get this game, remember that 
 different servers have different rules, so be sure to read the messages for the server so you don't 
 get kicked.
  
  Play fair, and enjoy!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andre_rappa
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a game that will be a hit for a long time, specially with the Special Forces expansion, 
 and the booster packs coming out. The gameplay is amazing! The weapons feel like they're the real 
 thing. Accuracy, damage, size, and even looks are as close as they can be to the real guns. The 
 controls are quite well placed, which will make playing this great game all the funner, especially 
 if you can get the Zboard Gaming Keyboard, which makes you a lot better in no time. The vehicles 
 are also quite realistic to control, with the helicopters and planes being the hardest to control, 
 but once you master it, you can rack up to 120 points a round, above the average 40. The graphics 
 are amazing... they're so great that sometimes I just go prone by a lake or river, and stare at 
 the water. Explosions are exciting to see, especially when a fire starts up in a vehicles engine, 
 and then it's a matter of seconds before you see metal and shrapnel flying all over the place. 
 If you got the texture and geometry set on high, the only object making it different from real 
 life is your computer monitor. The sound is awesome, too, with a great soundtrack, and even a bit 
 of the national anthem playing when you win a round with the USMC. The VOIP (voice-over IP) also 
 comes into the sound category. It's phenomenal to use, as you can plan out special tactics and 
 interact with squad members. When you can't hear somebody, or you hear them faintly, it's most 
 likely that they have a bad microphone, or your soundcard is not quite there yet for this game, 
 and this is where the value comes into play. This game can be fantastic with at least a 2.0 GHz 
 processor, 128 MB video card, a 64-bit sound card, 512 MB of RAM, and of course plenty of HDD space 
 (at least 4GB) , but if you don't have the required system hardware, you might as well stick to 
 playing internet java games, or just playing it's counterpart on the consoles, BF2: Modern Combat. 
 So if you got the system requirements, go out and buy this game right now, you won't regret it. 
 Oh, and one more thing, don't forget to download patch 1.12, or the upcoming 1.2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopdog3407
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  This is the best shooter ever. The only problem with this game is that you need a high end computer 
 to fully enjoy it. If you like blowing other people up in multi-player games then you will enjoy 
 this game. o. k. enough ranting.
  basically , the point of this game is to go online and rage a virtual war without a cause or a 
 reason. there isn't a story or a campaign mode, you just blow other people up while fighting over 
 control points. now i know that dosn't sound very fun to most of you, BUT IT IS. I love jumping 
 into an airplane flying over the enemies aircraft carrier and dropping 5 fifty pound bombs on them, 
 then look in the corner just so i can see this:
  [snoop_dog] b-12 [some guy] . in other words that means i blew somone the f*** up. If that dosn't 
 sound fun to you then how about this: you sneek into an enemy base, stick c-4 on there jets, then 
 when somone tries to take off you blow them up, hee hee. All destruction aside, there is actually 
 more gamplay than just blowing people up (i lied) . First off one person is the commander, which 
 you have to apply for at the beggining of the round (s) .
  then there are squads. squads are like families, they stick together and protect each other. there 
 is a squad leader who tells the squad what to do, and he can also call in artillary strikes and 
 supply drops. however, the commander can also tell the squad leader what to do, so the commander 
 is like a king. there are also seven kits to choose from: speacial forces (they get c-4, and radar 
 cant detect them) , assult (they get smoke grenades, body armor, and grenade launchers attached to 
 there machine guns) , medic (they can heal other people, and bring others back to life) , support (they 
 get body armor, big machine guns, and also replenish other peoples ammo) ,
  anti-tank (they get a sub-machine gun as well as a rocket launcher, and body armor) , engineer (they 
 can fix vehicles, and lay anti-vehicle mines) ,
  and snipers who get sniper rifles, claymore mines, and they get cool camuflage. To win the round 
 you must either, A: Hold every control point (when possible) or B: Drain down the enemies tickets.
 
  control points are slang for respawn points. if your team has every control point in there control, 
 then the enemy cant respawn, so you win by defualt.
  tickets, however, are slang for reinforcements. meaning every time you die and then respawn your 
 team loses a ticket (so dont die) . if your team is out of tickets then they cant respawn, so the 
 enemy wins.
  this is a very addictive game and i hope you try it. in fact go and download the demo RIGHT NOW!!!!!!!!!. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voruva1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  First, there's many things to choose; Second, it's ONLINE; third, it's very detailed in weapons, 
 kits, maps, gameplay, control, 
  Theres many patches, so errors are corrected.
  I was shocked [in a good way] , how the controls 
 are, the multiplayer, the details of everything! they were so, so, so.... It can't be said, it's 
 gotta be played!
  World online players can't stop playing at this beautiful piece of art, it's competing with LineAge2, 
 MU, even Everquest2. Ofcourse, there all different genres, but BF2 is something, what difference 
 is not in the genre.
  If you're looking for a arcade or a war simulator or online multiplayer or ....................., 
 then this game is for YOU! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobstos
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 22, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  first of all, i would like to say that this a great game in its own right. the multiplayer action 
 is intense and exciting, and the maps are thought out and well balanced. i think that there are 
 2 MAJOR flaws with this game:
  
  1. this game takes a MONSTER rig to run. i have 1.5 gigs of RAM, a pentium 4 2.8 processor, and 
 a nvidia geforce fx5700LE 256mb card, and i am lucky to push low on 1024x768.
  
  2. connection problems! i cant get into a server with a ping below 200, and frequently get disconnected 
 from servers. this has not just happened to me.... its happened to everyone, esk em.
  
  all in all, this is a totally awsome game, but only if you have the money for a super computer 
 and high speed internet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20991625879208495292018688011309-X360LIVE
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best and most addictive game I have played to date! It's got everything I want 
 in a game, with some minor things missing (don't worry doesn't effect the gameplay or anything) . 
 
  First off, it has stunning graphics. They are really up-to-date and I can only complain that if 
 you don't have a high-end graphics card, you're going to have some troubles, like lag or long loading 
 periods. 
  Second, the gameplay is amazing! Just truly a-maz-ing!! You've got three teams to chose from and 
 from those three are six different soldier types. The three teams are the U. S. Marine Corps (USMC) , 
 Middle East Coalition (MEC) , and the Chinese People's Army. The six soldier types are Special Ops, 
 Anti-Tank, Medic, Sniper, Assault, Support and Engineer. The Special Ops generally use their semi-auto 
 gun and C4 explosives. They use their gun to take out enemy infantry and their C4s to take out 
 armor, such as tanks and APCs. The Anti-Tank does exactly what it says in the name: destroys tanks. 
 Though it isn't always tanks sometimes armored cars or APCs. They also have an automatic SMG. To 
 take out their bigger enemies like tanks and such that I mentioned before, they have a guided missile 
 strapped on their back. The Medic is also a general name. Medics are there to revive you when you 
 have been "critically wounded" or give you med kits when you're running low on health. They also 
 have an SMG but isn't used as much as their healing abilities. *Hint: The medic can rack up points 
 quickly by many revives and healing points* The Sniper uses, well basically a sniper to take out 
 their enemies from far off distances. To protect themselves with their back turned, they use claymores, 
 wich explode when infantry gets to close to it. As for Assault or Engineer, I don't have much experience. 
 I know that Assault have good aim, making them able to take out enimies quickly, when in prone 
 position. The Support units are like the medic because they also provide supplies for the other 
 team members, by supplying them with ammo, like the medic with med kits. Engineers can also repair 
 vehicles with their trusty wrench. ;) Besides all the soldier types and teams there are thirty 
 vehicles in the game, including tanks, APCs, helicopters, planes, and armored cars. Combine all 
 this with several exciting maps you get great and addicting gameplay!
  Third, the ranking system is just a great way to prove yourself worthy and want to play the game 
 that much more! There are tons and tons of ribbons and badges to collect in th game. To unlock 
 these badges and ribbons be sure to be playing on line in a "ranked server." 
  Finally like I said it's definatly worth your money, just remember to have an up-to-date computer, 
 so check the technical requirements before you go out and spend fifty bucks on it. Other than that 
 you got a good game with minor annoyances, like problems with servers, lag, and it does take a 
 lot of your computer's power and resources to run. As for the lag and server probs, it's the servers 
 fault unless your comp is lagging due to crappy technical specs. I definatly recommend this to 
 the old school PC gamer and to new comers to the platform. If you're old school you'll probably 
 have a good comp, but if you're new, get some answers and check the technical specs. Do the homework! 
 Only thing I wish they had was a friends list type of thing were I could just join a server that 
 my friend is currently playing in. I almost forgot that there are also patches that need to be 
 installed after installing the game itself. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dzzdave
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is the best modern warfare game i seen up to this day. The weapons are amazing, and 
 the fact that they keep coming out with new expansions with more weapons is just perfect! Graphics, 
 pack ur self a 7800GTX Nvidia and ur set! You will glide to the outstanding maps and conquests. 
 Work your way up through ranks and earn medal, ribbons, and badges. Vehicles with the new patch 
 are much easier to get out of without dying. Ingame play if is really fun, you get to make your 
 own squad invite ppl in it and make ur commander proud by doing all ur missions. Capture, deffend, 
 attack and so on! Have FUN! Get it todaY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBurger
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Overall, BF2 just has great gameplay. This is not your standard run-and-gun shooter; 
 you will have to take your time and place your shots well. Vehicle physics are great and realistic, 
 and player movement feels real; no gliding feeling at all. Also, there is just so much to do on 
 the battlefield you will almost never get the feeling like, "Oh, yeah, this is just a video game." 
 It feels like you can do whatever you want, which you essentially can. This is the most realisitc 
 feeling depiction of a battlefield I have ever played in a video game. While some things may be 
 quasi-realistic, the whole ambience is certainly flat out realisitc. Superb gameplay. 
  
  Graphics: My PC has been outdated for a while now so I have to run the game on low to keep a really 
 solid frame rate, but that certainly does not keep the game from being enjoyable. On max settings 
 though, the game is absolutely incredible looking, and you couldn't ask for anything more.
  
  Sound: Awesome, just awesome. The sound of a tank or helicopter rolling up on you is hard to 
 miss in this game. All of the sounds are clear and distinct. Even if you can't see a player, you 
 can just listen to the sound of his gun to determine his team and his class. It's not just the 
 big things either. If you just stand still on some maps you can hear birds flying and calling overhead, 
 or the whipping sound of the flag blowing in the wind at a control point. The sound is incredible 
 and you couldn't ask for anything more.
  
  My Opinion: A superb game that could not get much better. A great semi-tactical FPS that will keep 
 you entertained for a long time. Also, the persistent character feature will keep you coming back 
 to earn your next medal and unlock your next weapon over and over again. Superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartijnThuis
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 22, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  The possibilities are unlimited, can not wait to buy the game and try flying. Got killed a few dosen 
 times so I guess I'll still have to train a little but its worth it! Riding the tank is awsome, 
 the ritme change required between the different weapons is daring.
  
  Thought the demo could have a more tutorial approach, luckily I'm not a 100% rookie... Especialy 
 the special funcions may get some more attention, I did not get to heal or repair anything.
  
  And using the team commands requires some practise, "attack here", but where the f.. k is that?
 
  
  This game will surely cause me some RSI! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nerdsaw
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 1:26 am PT
Review:  Battle Field 2 is the sequal to Battle Field 1942 Both games are great, and i think 1942 is better 
 but 2 has more to it and adds more to Battle Field than 1942 did and makes it easier BF2 is an 
 absolute must have for FPS fans and War Game Lovers. You can choose to be a Medic, Engineer, Assault, 
 Spec Ops and more! You can also choose to be on a Team whether it be bravo or alpha and this isnt 
 even the least of what BF2 has to offer. You can drive many differnt vehicles whether it be from 
 a simple 3 person carrier car to a tank or helicopter. (but if youre gonna be in a helicopter driving 
 make sure you have a Joy-Stick near impossible to drive with keyboard controls) Can be played online 
 with other people which is absolutely grouse!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamermon
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  AWSOME GAME A MUST HAVE! This game is great. The online, the weapons, the soon to be and already 
 out expansion packs. I MEAN SERIOUSLY IT'S AWSOME! Except the only downside is the requirments. 
 Most people I've ment had to buy a new graphics card. For anyone who doens't have it it needs a 
 nvidia 5700 card or higher BUT if you have a nvidia 5500 with 256mb u can play it. For ATI it needs 
 8500 or greater. The cards MUST have 128mb or more. But I highly recommmend this for PC. I havn't 
 tried it for xbox 360 yet though. Great multipalyer. This game is not a single player game! You 
 can play single player but its basicly a multiplayer map with 8 bots on each side ( 7 bots on what 
 ever side you are on to balance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRM114
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is the first game that I have ever considered giving a perfect 10. If you have a 
 machine good enough to run it and fast internet connection the reward is an experience relatively 
 unequaled in gaming. It really is the most fun I've had playing games since I first got my hands 
 on a copy of battlefield 1942. The gameplay is well balanced and highly addictive, and the way 
 that dice has integrated vehicle and infantry combat makes for an incredible time. Seven months 
 after release and It is still my number one choice for relaxing after work, and probably will be 
 for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordRandom
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I have a blast with this game. There is total chaos that you'll never know who's shooting at you. 
 This game pulls you into a more realistic battlefield that soldiers are actually in. Although this 
 game has only one mode of multi player, which is conquest, it is enough to drag me into the game 
 for several hours straight. The kits are also worth mentioning. With the feature to unlock a few 
 weapons as my rank progresses, makes the game feel a little like an rpg shooter. This definitely 
 makes me want to keep playing online. The team work, which is the key to this game, is also another 
 feature that drags me into multi player game play. Thus, making this game feel a little different 
 from other shooters. I'm also impress with the different maps the game provides. There are a few 
 maps, but each has remarkable sceneries which cause me to stop multiple times just to appreciate 
 them. But this is not necessarily a good thing as each time I marvel at the sceneries, I got killed. 
 This game is also simply realistic, but a little too realistic. It is not fast-paced enough. As 
 a result, the huge maps, which many people like about in the game, makes walking a pain. Although 
 there are vehicles, there are not always available at a respawn point. Battlefield 2 is also quite 
 system demanding. But that is the price to pay to play these kinds of games nowadays. All in all, 
 this is a game to be reckon with. For the moment, it steals my attention from counter strike, which 
 is also amazing. But for now, I'm enjoying Battlefield 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11Buckeyed
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  this game rocks no doubt about it but only one problem i had with it my cousin and i loved the 
 coop in battlefield 1942 and Vietnam and there isnt one in this edition but other than that the 
 games graphics rock the sound is amazin and the game play is just down right fun i think its one 
 of the best multiplayer games online i can fly a helicopter plane control a humvee dune buggy and 
 the new ranking for your guy is incredible just this game is one of the best games out there no 
 doubt about it so i suggest go out and buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  if you are a fan of the original battlefield franchise you are sure to love this, with inspiration 
 such as the originals they have made a cracker out of this game, with evenly balanced clkasses, 
 all with their own advantages and disadvanteages this game allows players to be part of some REAL 
 squad action and it isnt just a gimmick. for a successful squad to be deployed you must have a 
 range of classes at your disposal, for example, you will need an anti-tnak guy to takecare of armour, 
 a medic to take care of injuries and an engineer with his shotgun and mines to be a hand to hand 
 fighter as well as the spec ops guy who simply rocks with an all around ability to own anyone on 
 the battlefield, but olny i the right hands.
  unlie games like the counterstrike series, the maps are huge and therefore have a huge replayability 
 facotr, this menas the game is endless and online there are hundreds of ways to conduct assaults 
 anbd defensive actions.
  with vehicles such as jets, helicopters, tanks and fast little buggys you can get around the bswttlefield 
 with ease and carry some mates around with you for then ride too.
  also, with the introductuion of the commander mode and squads, this allows you to take control 
 of the leader and conduct a series of air support options including air strikes andn supply drops 
 as well as radar scans to fluch out enemy positions.
  the gmaplay is smooth and quick, guns are easy swapped and kits are easily exchangablke from dead 
 bodies, the graphics too are flawless, i p; aly the game on the lowest settings to get the best 
 possible results online and still, the graphics are much better than many game son the market.
 
  if there was something bad about this game it would be the steep tyechnical crequiremnts in orde 
 for you to play it, my pc is decent but wotn play it on highest graphics etc, only buy if you have 
 a good pc, if you do you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellowblankey
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  This is great game all in all but I have run into serious problems that no matter what I do to 
 patch it I can not get it to run appropriately. This is not compatable with 6600gt graphics card 
 series and I just don't understand how a major developer like EA could miss out on such a mainstream 
 card. Regardless battles are awesome and the game is good. Just wish you did not have to have such 
 a hog system to run it. 
  
  My Setup 
  AMD 3500+
  Asus A8V-Deluxe MoBo
  1GB Kingston Ram
  MSI 6600GT Soon to be x850xt AGP.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattt090
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a great strategy game and combat game. It combines everything that would be used 
 in a realistic battle and puts it all in this game. it has planes, jets, artillery, cars, special 
 forces, medics,.... this game has it all. i was not dissapointed at all after i bought this game. 
 well worth its money.
  
  Battlefield 2 has some good graphics, but your gonna need a good video card and at least a gigabyte 
 of ram for smooth gameplay. other than that the graphics look awesome!!!!
  
  The online ranking system for battlefield 2 works great. i haven't found a problem yet. as u first 
 start out in bf2, u can earn medals by killing other people and by helping ur team members out. 
 the ranking system goes by points. u get 2 points for every kill u get. After u get about 2000 
 points the game will allow u a gun unlock and will provide u with a unlock of ur choice. Either 
 a upgraded special forces gun, sniper, medic, assualt, anti-tank,.... but for this ranking system 
 u must be online. if u have no internet connection u must go to singleplayer or LAN if ur connected 
 with no internet connection.
  
  Battlefield 2 is the best, i bought it about a year ago and haven't stopped playing it. i have 
 about 500 hours playing it and i am a master gunnery seargent.
  
  BUY BF2 u wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cardsfan07
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite possibly the best multiplayer game to ever come to the PC. It rivals counterstrike 
 and in my oppinion it beats it. With its in depth ranking system, unlocks and clans, it is the 
 most addictive game I have ever played. I give this game a perfect 10! The only thing that this 
 game could have improved on would be the bugs in the game, but they have had updates to fix them. 
 It is also very common for a massively popular multiplayer game to have such bugs, you just have 
 to be patient with them, it definately isn't something to pass this game up on. The graphics are 
 excellent as well, I play with them on medium settings and it looks perfect. If only my computer 
 could run the full graphics... oh, it would be even more amazing!!!!!!!!!! Awesome Game DON'T PASS 
 IT UP!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! This game ROCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: familyguy4295
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 may not be the best online war game out there, but it is definitely one of the best 
 games of 2005. What DICE has managed to do (cram a bunch of people onto large maps give them guns 
 and turn them loose) is an amazing undertaking and, for the most part, DICE has been up to the 
 task.
  
  Gameplay  While you can learn the basics of this game in a few minutes; it could take months to 
 learn all the little nuances and tactics that will put you in the elite. The squad play is wonderful 
 when you can get with a bunch of squadmates that want to play as a team. The squad-based integrated 
 VOIP (Voice Over IP) chat function (default: B key) is awesome (again, when you can find willing 
 squadmates) . This allows Squad Leaders to use voice communication with their Squad Members. The 
 game also supports the Ventrillo and Teamspeak communication programs. The commander function gives 
 you a top-down view of the entire battlefield, the ability to send artillery strikes, UAV recon 
 missions, and supply crates with pinpoint accuracy (be sure to Zoom in) . You also have access to 
 all your squads and can communicate directly with the Squad Leaders via the Commander Comm Channel 
 (default: V key) . There are a ton of vehicles at your disposal. Jeeps, tanks, boats, APCs, jets, 
 helicopters, etc. Oddly enough, given the over arcade feeling of the land/water vehicles, the jets/helos 
 require some skill to pilot effectively.
  
  Graphics  The graphics in this game are excellent if you have the rig to run them. At Low, the 
 graphics are rather mediocre; however if your PC can handle it, at High they are beautiful. Cobblestone 
 streets actually look like cobblestone streets. Trees and plants sway in the breeze. The water 
 effects are quite convincing as well. The player models and weapons are very detailed and some 
 of the best Ive seen in a while. Walking from a shadowed area into the sun allows you to see that 
 light gradually cover you instead of just suddenly being there.
  
  Sound  The sounds in this game are spot on. The weapons/vehicles sound like they should. While 
 Ive never fired a HMMVV-mounted .50 caliber machine gun, I imagine that this is what it sounds 
 like. The ambient sounds (when theres time to notice) are decent. The voice acting is a bit wooden 
 at times, but the fact that you hear the dialogue spoken in the native language of your army is 
 a nice touch.
  
  Value  This game is definitely worth $50. Nuff said
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Monkdawg91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  If you like war, or shooters. or mp shooters, you are almost guarunteed to enjoy this game severely.
 
  
  The gameplay is so addictive and immersive. The game is very realistic [unlike BF 1942] . It's like 
 Joint Ops taken to a whole new level. The single player is better than the first BF games but the 
 A. I. is still a little bit lacking. But who cares!?!!??!!! The Multi player aspect is so frealin 
 sweet. The fun never ends.
  
  That is assuming you have a powerful PC.
  
  Disregarding the high power requirements, the graphics are beautiful and MASSIVELY updated since 
 BF 1942.
  
  The sound is great and very realistic.
  
  Buy this game. It's one of the best FPS'S ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalionix
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  This is defiantly one of those games you start playing at around 3pm, and the next thing you know 
 it's 3am. It is very competitive. BF2 has a nice selection of weapons, and the ability to move 
 up in ranks. The higher you get the more weapons become available to you. You also get medals and 
 ribbons also. The graphics are very nice and the sound fx are great. And the best thing of all 
 is you get to play online with tons of other people, and IT'S FREE!. The independent servers built 
 into the game are very stable. This is a must have in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: czaoth
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 17, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Game play : Welcome to true PVP. It has tremendous depth for an FPS and provides blood pumping 
 game play. Hardware wise this has to be the most demanding FPS PC game i have seen yet. It's made 
 many people upgrade. The game is worth it, no regrets here.
  
  Graphics : Amazing. very realistic graphics. I'm in awe everytime i play and i've logged many hours. 
 They aim for a realistic presentation and they succeed.
  
  Sound : This game takes full advantage of powerful sound cards. Directional sound is extremely 
 well used. It assists in elavating the game play by providing an extra tangible dimension to the 
 game. You need to listen, if you don't you are at a disadvantage. This is not a game where you 
 turn down the sound to listen to music when you play.
  
  Value : Un-limited replayability. Learn the maps, master infantry, master armor, master helicopters 
 and master airplanes. Go up and military rank and get weapon unlocks for your efforts. Learn the 
 different kits. Learn the nuances of the weapons. Play to improve your stats as they are extensively 
 tracked ie performance with specific kits, accuracy percentage, kill/death ratio etc etc. Collect 
 medals and awards. As you can see, this is more than just log in play a round, finish it and start 
 back at square one. This game has depth.
  
  Dice listens to it's community. The next patch is going to perfect the game by making it more realistic. 
 They are getting rid of dolphin diving and other un-realistic actions like jump shooting. 
  
  You can't go wrong with this tile unless you have a mediocre or worse PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jahumphries
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 17, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I created an online profile and want to change my name, so, I have to create another one. No biggie. 
 OK, I have to give a different email to create a new account no big deal, I have two email addresses. 
 Ok now whats a quenick and why is it already in use? Why is it so hard to create another account 
 and how do I do it? I reinstalled and chose the option to erase all profiles and existing accounts 
 and still when I reinstalled when I submitted the old emails it said it was still in existance. 
 Why? Why is absolutlely none of this covered in the manual? I understand glitches and patches but 
 why are there patches for the pathes?
  
  The game play is good and fun it gets a 9 out of 10 by me but the set up and the "your on you own" 
 crap is unsatisfactory.
  
  Patches for Patches? Come on guys.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hackerdork
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  
  BF2, I loved! Much better the 2nd time around this one kicks the original battle feild off the 
 planet.
  
  I go more for the multiplay aspect of the game than single player. I can't fly well other than 
 a crash landing, but be asured I will take you out with me.
  The graphics are rock solid, audio is right on and the game play is smooth as a babies backside.
 
  
  From flying, fighting to war based carnage I loved this game. Just wish there was more time during 
 the week to play with those can support team mates rather than an all out free-for-all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormlifter
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 17, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so this game is a very great, game, go buy it, go enjoy it. Know a few things though. 
 EA Games clearly has it out for the dollars, but who doesn't right? Well EA Games doesn't really 
 backup their constant begging for money with great service. BF2 does have patches, but bugs continue 
 to exist and EA seems to keep working on more money-making things, like selling expansion packs 
 and downloadable pay-for content.
  
  If you buy BF2, like I did, your purchase won't mean anything to EA, they'll ask for more money 
 at the next possible moment and probably not patch the game till they're under a law-suit or the 
 president asks.
  
  This game has excellent multiplayer and that's why I buy it and recommend it for others to play. 
 I the fact that VOIP is built it, cause that way you can play with non-clan members and still chat 
 without having to load another software up.
  
  Great game, go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommygun981
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the greatest games of its genre since forever, and will remain great well on 
 through the years, with expansions and booster packs coming out, it will only get better, with 
 kits, you not only get a different gun, but a set of different gear, and unlocks let you use great 
 weapons, if you havent already buy this game!!! YOu can advance through the ranks, become a squad 
 leader, maybe even a commander! As commander, you can boss your men around and lead them into a 
 battle, you can also, order suply drops, UAV's, Artillary or even a sattelite scan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calypso409
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  My favorite FPS to date! the graphics are awesome and its pretty realistic. Im in the Army myself 
 and how real alot of these vehicles and weapons look and fire is crazy! very addictive and after 
 getting the special forces expansion, you wont be getting up out of your seat for days! grappling 
 hooks, zip lines, and night vision goggles, it doesnt get any better! great game best of all the 
 Battlefields. The only other FPS i had as much fun playing was Tribes 2. the sounds in the game 
 are great, graphics are right on, easy game to to learn, just hard to play because other players 
 are really good and kill you all to often! =) dont really play it single player, definately more 
 of a multiplayer game, as was the other battlefields 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Changhyuk
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  If you like FSP game you will love this. It has the real time battle feeling. I got addicted to 
 this game when i played the DEMO. Man this game is so addicting I want to get the special force 
 one but i dont have the money. If you do hae to moeny get both the speical force and the original. 
 This game is pretty demanding so dont make it get in ur way with your crappy PC. you will need 
 aleast a gig or ram 6800gt (aleast) anthing over athlong64 and a good hard drie. YOU wont be disappointed 
 in this game. Most of my games are FPS and this is the number 1 after call of duty 2. enjoy!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmartgamer12792
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  When you first play the game after you have spent about 30 minutes waiting for it to load (i have 
 adelphia) and providing it has not kicked you out you will be amazed at the graphics and sound (providing 
 you have two good cards) . I use a radeon x700 and it was great. The actual gameplay is amzing also. 
 You can fly planes and drive tanks and dune buggys. If you have a headset or microphone when you 
 first talk to those in your squad it is amazing. You have many guns and personal types to choose 
 from. Overall a good game with some hitches. Wait for price to drop 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Breuer85
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 15, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  I was always a big fan of Battlefield and BF: Vietnam. Great games, no doubt. Definately BF:2 is 
 a much needed and anticipated addition to the game. 
  It seems as though EA took a lot of players requests/suggestions and incorporated them into the 
 new BF:2.
  If you haven't yet got the game, check you vid card and make sure you computer can handle the game. 
 I reccomend the Geforce 6800GS (256) with at least a 2.8 ghz proc, and a dandy 1-1.5 gb's of ram.
 
  
  Also, interesting little fact, BF:2 is currently Robbin WIlliams favorite game! Perhaps you'll 
 see him out there. He likes to play the Sniper, he claims if you see him, your already dead! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freeze893
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 15, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that this game is incredible.
  This game is basically a multi-player only game, but since 100% of you who are reading this at 
 the moment are using the Internet, and therefore have the internet, that shouldn't be a problem. 
 So I am only reviewing the multiplayer, seeing as how if I were to review single-player I would 
 be doing this game a great injustice.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are extremely good, thought they aren't good enough to warrant the highly 
 picky and demanding graphics requirements... Never the less, they are still great. the characters 
 are very well done and realistic. the environments are far above par.
  
  Sound: Each individual weapon makes its own unique sounds when firing, as do the vehicles. Explosions 
 sound great. the only downside, is that if you are one of those people who loves ingame music, 
 well, there isn't any. It didn't bother me though, I just turned up my radio.
  
  Gameplay: The most important part of any game IMO. If you have played BF1942, you've played BF2. 
 that may make some unhappy, or it may make some extremely happy. I particularly enjoyed this. It 
 made it very easy for me to pick of BF2 and start playing it. This game though, like just about 
 every other game though, is not free of its bugs and glitches. They are releasing pathes though 
 so as long as they are going to be fixed it doesn't bother me to much, although they do get annoying 
 at times. Cheating is not rampant, in fact, I have never been in a game with cheaters. One dowside, 
 is that the game makes it extremely hard to keep up with friends. The ranking system is also pretty 
 cool, it follows the ranking system of the marines. your rank is decided by Global points and on 
 certain ranks, badges. You earn global points from just about everything you do while playing the 
 game, much like here on Gamespot.
  
  Value: Simply put, I am addicted to this game. Its one of those games that you can't put down. 
 It is definitely worth the money. Its like Halo. No matter how much you play it, o even how much 
 you dislike the singleplayer, the multiplayer is wat keeps you coming back, time and time again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: contrafreak
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 really shocked me, in a good way. I was just expecting another BF game from a new 
 perspective, but got much more. Battlefield 1942 was an awesome game, great idea, awesome gameplay, 
 and huge online mode. Battlefield Vietnam was more of a mod, it just put in new weapons, new vehicles, 
 and new maps, just same game, new war. Battlefield 2 is a totally new game and improved everything 
 and added just the right amount of stuff. The gameplay was completely improved. The new engine 
 was the best part. Great physics, especially in vehicles, great graphics, and great everything 
 else. The squad and commander mode is great and adda a lot more strategy to the game. Sending supplies, 
 calling airstrikes, and sending out commands is great. The graphics are great, and all the textures 
 and things like that are great. The massive amount of vehicles and weapons are great, too. The 
 sound was good, but not great. The grenade explosions were horrible, and there are many other sounds 
 that need improvement also. They did leave out somethings that have been in past BF games like 
 on Vietnam were you pick your class and there are many weapons to choose from. And mortars, also 
 in vietnam, would have been a nice touch. Some guns in the game have unrealistic damage. Like the 
 knife, you shouldn't be able to satb them in the knee and they die. The sniper rifles were also 
 bad. It shouldn't take 2 or 3 times if I shoot them in the neck, and some head shots don't even 
 get 1 hit kills, for some people this ruins the entire purpose of the sniper being there. And also 
 the rocket launcher. When shooting at a cheap dunebuggie it shouldn't take 2 shots. Some weapons 
 are too accurate or unaccurate. Half the time sniper rifles, even when aiming at a still target, 
 don't hit. The Ak-101 is a very unaccurate weapon, and on BF2 is almost as accurate as the m16. 
 The maps in BF2 were very good and accurate. All the middle-eastern maps are based on what battlefields 
 U. S. forces are fighting on now. The Chinese maps were the best. The rocky forested maps are great 
 for snping and are easy to sneak around in. Last, but not least, the ranking system. I thought 
 this was the best new thing in BF2. It really keeps you playing. Once you figure it out, you want 
 to get higher and higher in the ranks and earn all the unlockables. Battlefield 2 is one of the 
 best fps games I've ever played. Its strategic gameplay and addicting ranking system will keep 
 you playing for months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newsboy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a team based first person shooter with a strong focus on online multiplayer. I 
 cannot stress enough how you must have a high speed internet connection and high-end graphics card 
 to properly enjoy this game, those who don't will be sorely dissappointed.
  The premise of the game is just like it's predicessors, Battlefield 1942 and Battlefield Vietnam: 
 You are a soldier in an army either attacking the opposing army's outposts or defending against 
 insurgencies. You can use a wide variety of means to gain or keep control of the map, from helicopters 
 and APCs to tanks and Hummvies practically every vehicle used in a military is at your disposal. 
 And remember, you are not restricted to a vehicle once you commandeer it, you can simply get out 
 of one and hop into another at any time, or play the whole game as a foot soldier if you so desire.
 
  There are a few problems with the game which could prevent players from enjoying it. First off, 
 if you don't have a high speed internet connection and you are only buying it for single player 
 mode, move on. The single player maps are small in comparison to the online maps and the enemy 
 AI just isn't clever or "human" enough to keep you entertained for any length of time. Second, 
 the game looks ugly at low detail but if you have a good enough graphics card, you can crank up 
 the eye candy and it looks absolutely amazing. That being said, my GeForce 6600gt is not enough 
 to run it anywhere close to highest settings so plan on picking up a 7800 series card or higher 
 to run it appropriately.
  Finally, if you didn't like the first two Battlefield games, you probably won't like this one either. 
 It is more of the same, albiet with a prettier picture.
  Now that the bad is out of the way, there is a whole lot of good to be said for this game. We already 
 talked about the graphics but the sound is completely incredible. The whinning of the chopper blades 
 spinning up and the rolling of the tank treads sounds spot-on. The online maps are huge and well 
 designed, with plenty of buildings and foilage for cover. The online community is as huge as the 
 maps so finding a good fragfest is never difficult.
  If you're a fan of FPS, chances are you will like this game, though it isn't for everybody. Those 
 looking for a linear, story based game need to keep looking. But for those of you who want lots 
 of online multiplayer mayhem, suit up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whynotdairy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 15, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield combines intense utter chaotic but some how organized first person shooting, with graphics, 
 physics, vehicles, land, sea and air that possibly make this game argueably one of the most realistic 
 games that make you realize what the U. S. marines/soldiers must be facing on a day to day basis 
 in Iraq. What got me the most about this game is the all out war and being abe to switch beteween 
 your men and the hordes of the enemy, the medal incentives also add a nice touch to the gamee. 
 with all the vehicles you are able to drive it is like smugglers run with guns, ace combat 6, and 
 a boat shooting game with enhanced grphics and gameplay, the online is very worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBoss028
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 15, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  it has the best multiplayer, built in voice chat is extremly fun especially when you are in a squad, 
 the commander feature is also great, vehicles like tanks, APC's transport, choppers', and jets 
 takes cobat to a new level, earning awards, increasing your rank, and unlocking new weapons is 
 rewarding and it also gives you something to fight for, differnt kis, damn this game rock i can 
 go on and on, the only real problem is the single player, theres no story or any missions, which 
 is fun at first but gets a little boring once you have learned all the boring AI's tricks, but 
 with the best multiplayer player around you won't be spending the much time on the single player 
 anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duncan_Brasier
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:51 am PT
Review:  This is just unbelievable.
  I've played on some games ppl call a break through but this is just something else, the realism, 
 the Gameplay, the Graphics!
  You'd have to be a fool not to buy this game, I snapped it up like a shot.
  
  OK abit about 
 the game. The kits, you have 6 kits each with different weapons, and different weapon unlocks.
 
  Spec Ops or special forces, these are silent but deadly and usually have the best weapons for 
 medium range, snipers, well you know about snipers, assault, they attack at close range usually 
 and capture flags etc.
  Support usually has more ammo and faster firing weapons to make up for the lack of accuracy although 
 who needs accuracy with a PKM?
  Medics heel the team. Anti-Tanks take out Tanks obviously, but if your trying to defend an area 
 they're always very good from distance.
  
  The vehicles are really good, jeeps with mounted guns, tanks, heilcopters, jetsand even boats.
 
  But to get good at this game u need to master the vehicles, some pilots can actually dodge missiles 
 and make them hit members of your team.
  
  One last thing that I really like is the reward system, do something good you get a reward, do 
 something great you get a veteran award etc.
  
  This is the best game ever, and is now improved by the Special forces and Euro forces packs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meyer2278
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 14, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  For all the hype surrounding this game i was expecting more. I am not sure what but, just more. 
 Now there is BF2 Special Forces, ya ya, let it go. NOW there is a Euro "booster pack", now there 
 is just a moneysucking machine. I will not but it unless its like $10. The game just does not feel 
 like it should. The Special Forces expansion adds a few things but every tank is the same as the 
 other sides tank, different HUD but the same strength. This is good to a point, but where is the 
 under dog story? We all know an Abrams will absolutely destroy a T-72. I am not sure what exactly 
 i was expecting, it does grow on you after a while but there just is not any,,, draw, i guess you 
 could say.? They need to stop the dang expansions and just use the damn "game type" pull down window. 
 Put in a defend and offensive, a capture the flag instead of just mindless run and shoot. Yes there 
 can be some tactics when playing in a SMALL room. Otherwise being on a team has no point other 
 than to be able to spawn on your team-leader. If you like BF Vietnam, you will find this to be 
 a good game, i did, you will also find something,,,,,,,,,, missing. Still not sure what it is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HamanZz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 14, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  There will be doubters and naysayers who will claim that Battlefield 2 is just an incremental upgrade 
 from its famous predecessors, or that it only offers a marginal improvement over the popular Desert 
 Combat mod for Battlefield 1942. Ignore them, because they couldn't be more wrong. EA and Digital 
 Illusions' cutting-edge and highly awaited sequel is everything that it's supposed to be and more. 
 Battlefield 2 is a thrilling testament to how great PC gaming can be. It packs unmatched gameplay, 
 impressive visuals, and endless replayability in one exquisite package. And it's, by far, the most 
 fun that we've had with a PC game this year. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarah-1988
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a wonderful game. Not only do you have the realism but you have the vehicles. 
 Battlefield 2 does have some problems though. In this game, its only fun if you have more then 
 32 people playing. If you have about only 12 people it would be rather boring. This game needs 
 many players do to the big map! If you only had 12 people playing, it would take about a few minutes 
 to actually find the enemy. The game also has terrible lag to some viewers like me. I cant get 
 to an area without lagging my way there. I mostly die because of the lag. Battlefield 2 can be 
 a bit more difficult to play then other games. You only have a fair amount of bullet rounds. Battlefield 
 2 definitely has a few faults which could be noticed easily. Although it has terrible problems, 
 this game is still good. In Battlefield 2, you will get many vehicles like jets and tanks. The 
 game will also let you pick a role of a Special Forces man, sniper, assault, support, engineer, 
 medic, and anti-tanker. Battlefield 2 is overall a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperz89
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  ok not much to say but my review is always at least a pinpoint or my view on the good games. so 
 here's it: this game is great in graphics esp u see the bombs, the airplanes, tanks being designed 
 so great tat u can oso see their shadow reflections and stuffs like tat. and your teammate of bots 
 i mean if u play alone is also better than the old battlefield 1942, with tat u can practise a lot 
 of ur skills with ur guns. and the maps are as always big as usual. when u multiplay tats when games 
 become good, the reason goes to teamworks/funny kills/airplane bombing, car jacking. many thing goes 
 around bf2. and when u online plays, many playaz to meet with. ok now lets take a look at the sound, well 
 they fit every guns and models. chinese/iraq/english radio commands were as good as possible. a lot 
 of language included so its better to use it if u like. one last thing is how to conquer a map or 
 a terrority against two nations. this is like unfolding a new history juz in bf2. so get ur hands 
 on it. anyone shud played at least 4-10 times to know the feel of a history war! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kagemusha219
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun. But can get old. yes, inittially it is amazing with gorgeous graphics that rival 
 some of the top games, but dont top games like far cry or halflife 2. This game is great with fun, 
 fast and addicting gameplay, but after you play all the levels a lot, and after you've driven all 
 the vehicles, it gets old. This gmae is not realistic, the physics are overeactive and the shooting 
 isnt realistic either ( headshot wont score you a one hit kill) . What makes it fun is the open, 
 but repetitive worlds and the cornucopia of vehicles. There is everything from choppers to jeeps 
 and all very fun to drive. The ragdoll physics isnt very well done (enemies can land in akward 
 positions) but fun to watch. Enemys are stiff while they are alive but when they die , it is amusing 
 to see them all of a sudden turn into a ragdoll and fly a foot in the air (even if you are shooting 
 down at them) . This game basically is for certain people. It is fun while it lasts for me, but 
 some people will play it over and over again. i cant say i enjoy it as much as the origional battlefields, 
 but it is highly entertaining. You might want to think about this game if you want to buy it. If 
 you want an arcade style fps that is online , this game is for you. If you want a more realistic 
 shooter, it might not be for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mista_F
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 13, 2006 3:45 am PT
Review:  Great at last a decent multi player online game for the thinking man or is it? I decided to take 
 the plunge after growing tired of the death match take. BF2 was the perfect vehicle for my desires, 
 planes, choppers, tanks, and jeeps.... a new pc?
  
  Ah hem yes, that right unless you have the very best pc money can buy and the very best video card 
 then you will be so disappointed. This game sucks the big one; it really is a piece of buggy crap 
 even with the patches. You will not enjoy a prolonged game because it will:
  
  Crash to desktop
  Freeze
  Lag
  Stagger
  Jump
  Tear
  
  This is even with a medium 
 spec machine. 
  
  Now thats the hardware taken care of lets explore the game play. If youre like me you will be 
 a bit anal and don't really want to team up with a bunch of pre pubescent school boys to play the 
 game. You would probably wish to play alone and just frag the odd fellow, fly a few planes and 
 choppers and enjoy the solitude of online war and destruction. This will be ill afforded as a good 
 majority of the servers are owned or full of whining brats who will take every opportunity to berate 
 you because you didnt place a mine in the right position. The truth being they didn't see it and 
 ran over it killing themselves and you getting the flack for being a 'noob tk'er'. Get used to 
 hearing noob every 10 seconds or so.
  
  The game has a commander mode which allows someone highly decorated soul to play god and dish death, 
 destruction and ammo at his will. You should try this out it single player its dull and should 
 simply be removed from the game. You progress via rank you will be overjoyed to receive your first 
 rank and medal then you will become dismayed when you realise that you will need to play for 14 
 hours a day for 6 months to get anywhere. Look out for top gun man he simply flies around in his 
 jet when there is no opposition and waits for you to run for 5 mins across the map to cap a flag 
 before dropping two 60lb bombs on your ass and sending you back to spawn. Also beware bunny man 
 who just jumps and jumps to prevent you fragging him. Also base spawn man who will lie prone next 
 to spawn points and mow anyone down who appears before his eyes. Be prepared to meet many **** 
 at all levels, stick to the public servers and late at night when the kids have gone to bed
  
  Okay rant over the game is quite good if not painful and I dont see why I should have to play 
 any game at 800 x 600 when I can play HL2 and COD2 at full res smooth as silk. This is simply EA 
 games for you the coca cola of the gaming world all glitter and no bollocks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgaff
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  There are many aspects that make a perfect game and without a doubt this game has got a 10/10 in 
 all of them. Of course there is a problem for all of you out there with a bad video card but if 
 you like BF1942 it will be worth your money. In this game you have so much to d, especially online. 
 The most amazing part of the multiplayer game mode is your ever changing profile. You start out 
 as a Private and battle your way up the ranks while at the same time you receive guns that steadily 
 get better. Hands down the best game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staun
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 29, 2006 3:24 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 attempts to reinvent itself by bringing in new elements like a "Commander" with more 
 control of the troops, and squads. Of course it maintains all of the elements which made the other 
 Battlefield games work so well, but does not really add anything new to this.
  
  After having played several hours on the Internet, I am left to conclude that the gaming experience 
 in Battlefield 2 is not much different than the old Battlefield games. Sure, it's prettier, a lot 
 in fact, it's faster, more impressive, but gaming experience wise it's the same.
  
  Come on! Somebody must be able to do something brilliant for this genre of games, or we'll be stuck 
 forever.
  
  Somehow, I am missing some High Dynamic Range effects like Day of Defeat or Half Life. Looks to 
 me like EA got overtaken on the inside by Valve. This includes Valves brilliants software publishing 
 system ("Steam") which Battlefield 2 lacks as well. And let's not get started on the patch nightmare 
 EA introduced, the very poor support for mods and add-ons, just think of the Euroforce scandals. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt5thboard
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 9, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Well, for those die hard fans of Battlefield 1942, here comes the sequel,"Battlefield 2". The difference 
 with this game and Battlefield 1942 is than you are playing in the modern era, which means better 
 guns for the anti-tank. (The anti-tanks in battlefield 1942 are worse) . The A. i. in this game is 
 a lot more better, better sound and a lot more intersting game play because you have new thing like 
 F-15 jets, helicopters, guns (of course) and a new catogery, Sepecial Forces. The graphics in this game 
 are nice but you need a better PC for it. Sadly the singelplayer mode is very boring because you 
 don't have a campaign and the maps are limited, but for the multiplayer, better than counter strike.
 
  
  So, Good Graphics, Excellent gameplay, Unbeliveble Multiplayer; Bad Singleplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_freak_0001
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Unlike the original, Battlefield 2 is set in modern day, or at least the very near future. The 
 equipment, vehicles and weapons used in the game are most definitely variations on what's out in 
 the field right now. Although some of the brand names might be missing, anyone who knows anything 
 about modern-day warfare will recognize Bradley tanks and Blackhawk helicopters no problem. But 
 it's not just the Americans in this fight. The game also features two other armies, the PLA (the 
 People's Liberation Army of China) , and the MEC (the Middle Eastern Coalition) , each with its own 
 set of vehicles and weapons. 
  
  The basic Battlefield gameplay mechanics remain in BF2. There are spawn points spread about the 
 map and you must hold these points long enough to "capture" them, thereby allowing your side to 
 spawn there and take a stronger hold of the map. To aid you in your conquest, you'll find vehicles 
 placed throughout the map, from the aforementioned tanks to the more liberally placed Humvees. 
 Battleships and airfields also play host to the airborne assault vehicles, like fighter jets and 
 helicopters, so it's not often you'll be without a ride. 
  
  The kit system returns as well, allowing players to spawn as different classes, each with their 
 own skills and weaknesses. The assault class, for example, is ideal against infantry, what with 
 their body armor, high powered assault rifle and grenade launcher. Up against tanks and planes, 
 however, the assault class is almost entirely useless. On the flip side, the engineer, with its 
 anti-armor land mines and vehicle-fixing wrench is ideal for support, but since he only has a shotgun, 
 any infantry with range will tear him apart. The most interesting changes made to the class system 
 were in an effort to make some of the kits more viable in battle. The medic class, for example, 
 has the only means to heal soldiers in combat (since the ridiculous healing caches from the first 
 game are out in BF2) . The medic also carries a semi-powerful rifle, making him a worthy foe in 
 battle. The best, however, are his defibrillation paddles, which can bring guys back from the dead. 
 In all, there are no "pointless" classes in BF2. Everyone has his or her role to play. 
  
  With built-in VoIP support, Battlefield 2 lets the strategic commander issue orders to squad leaders, 
 who in turn can direct troops in their squad. This re-creates an authentic military chain of command 
 and reduces the typical gabble that makes voice chat so annoying in most games. Likewise, from 
 a strategic view the commander can direct artillery strikes, air-drop supplies, and set up drone 
 aircraft to identify enemy movement. 
  
  If you're not up to leading troops, you can still take part in the intense first-person shooter 
 action and control more than 30 land, sea, and air vehiclesfrom tanks and hovercrafts to fighter 
 jets and helicopters. The modern setting features forces from China, a Middle Eastern coalition, 
 and the United States, and scalable maps provide the appropriate combat arena for the number of 
 players (from 16 to 64 online) . With numerous soldier classes, including Special Forces, Medic, 
 and Combat Engineer, you can play it your wayrun and gun or stealth infiltrationand earn points 
 for your endeavors. Medics score points for healing wounded troops, and Engineers are rewarded 
 for repairing vehicles while coming under fire. BF2 needs a high-end PC to run smoothly, but it 
 comes together very well.
  
  Long story short, Battlefield 2 is a great game. It's not quite the revolution that we were expecting 
 in terms of gameplay, but the improvements are more than enough to bring you back for a handful 
 of rounds every night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diogenesneira
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  the game is awesome but the only important thing to say are the bad things 
  
  - no campaign style game: the first time u play you can play all the maps available in the game 
 ... bad idea (no challenge)
  
  - offline you don't have any rewards again what do i play for??... what im getting? NOTHING
  
 
  - bad artificial intelligence offline frustrating when 2 tanks want to go through a bridge they 
 get stucked... some other minor issues with the artificial intelligence 
  
  - PERSONALLY i didnt like the aiming style of the game sometimes im actually aiming good at the 
 enemy but no bullets in his body
  
  - spawn thing .... why do i have to wait 15 seconds when im offline???
  
  - i wish theres more 
 maps to play in... i think im getting the special forces addon ... at this time the problems must 
 have been solved ??
  
  resuming if u dont have an internet connection then go to your home right now and keep playing 
 gta san andreas and DONT EVEN THINK OF BUYING BATTLEFIELD 2!! ....
  
  if u do have an internet connection then buy it because is the greatest first person shooter game 
 i've ever played
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Eagle_2004
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This is one of the best multiplayer games that is out right now. If you liked Desert 
 Combat mod from Battlefield 1942, then you will like this sequel. EA has done a great job with 
 this even though they are known to make a few bad games. Anyways you can play any 3 military forces 
 which are: United States, China, or Middle Eastern Coalition. There are alot of new features that 
 the other series have. One is that there is a commander mode that makes the gameplay much more 
 interesting. The commander controls his/her army by dropping supplies, artillery strikes, UAV scans, 
 and radar. But mostly you have a high rank in order to be a commander or if no one else picks it. 
 If you don't lucky to commander you can command your own squad or join a squad. Squad leaders are 
 important members of the squad they can talk to the commander by requesting supplies, UAV, or artillery 
 strikes. Plus if your squad leader is taking over a flag you can spawn on him/her without spawning 
 on the nearest flag point. Besides these modes are the vehicles. You drive transports, armor, or 
 aircrafts. You can also use ground defense like the TOW against vehicles, the AA against enemy 
 aircraft, or the heavy machine guns for ground troops. Another new thing is the unlock and ranking 
 system, the more rank you get the more unlocks you get, like better weapons that you can take into 
 the battlefield. If you played the other battlefield games you should know that there are different 
 kits like Special Ops, Sniper, Assault, Support, Engineer, Medic, or Anti-Tank . All these kits 
 are good for different things like Spec Ops can destroy the enemies artillery, UAV, or radar. There 
 are some negatives like the load times can be frustrating, lag in the main menu when you click 
 onto a server, and that there is no coop play like in the other series.
  
  Graphics: If you have a good video card then the graphics well be really beautiful. Even without 
 a good card you still can get descent graphics but it sometimes slows down the gameplay. So I recommend 
 that you have a good system to enjoy the graphics. 
  
  Sound: Best use of sound in any other game that I ever played from gunfire to explosions to the 
 voice acting. EA really did make you think that you are in a real battle.
  
  Again Battlefield 2 is one the best multiplayer games that I ever played. And one of the best in 
 it's series. Hopefully EA will keep making games like this for a really long time. So I recommend 
 everyone to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBox-Buddy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is nothing short of perfect. This game had to be one of the most fun games that I 
 have played and still playing in a while. Battlefield 2 lets you choose from a number of classes 
  Special Ops) these classes have certian wepons and 
 jobs like special ops you can sneak blown up enemy artillery and such.
  or like engineer you can lay landmines. The maps are huge and the graphics are awsome. in this 
 game you can also choose from many vehicles from Hilicopters, Jets, Boats, Tanks, etc. This game has 
 also very good gameplay. This game can also be very hard to newcomers but when you evetually get 
 the hang of it you can do really well. Some of the vehicles like the jet, and helicopter can also 
 be very hard to use to newcomers but also getting the hang of these might take a lot of time manning 
 and practice.
  But overall those things dont get in the over all gameplay of it in my eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstonyr
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  battlefield two is by far the best in the series. the single player mode is very fun do to the 
 virtual smartness of the fake people. the Graphics is awesome. But it really depends on your computer. 
 this kind of game will last you forever. In multiplier mode you actually get ranked. and the higher 
 the rank the better guns you get. the game tacks years to beat. you also get medals and badges 
 and rebinds. if you buy a head set you can talk to people in your squad. you can apply to be the 
 commander but you must be the highest rank that applied. when youre the commander you can send 
 uav, artillery, and supplies. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedSoxRebel
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  As you know from the BattleFIeld Series the games rock I mean the Planes Jeeps Tanks were can you 
 go wrong. Because there are no other Post modern FPS's out there this game dominates ( and I mean 
 real 1s not the 1 that the army devolpes) there are a couple downsides like the kick ass machine 
 part and how you need one and then there are the Heli's which are impossible to fly and then the 
 level glitches sometimes but on the bright side this game stops short of no were with the combat. 
 This has the best combat ever I mean with the competetive side to it that every 1 loves unlocking 
 new weapons getting promoted getting medals and badges this game has all the ingridents of a great 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtFlaman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 was very unique when it came out and it set the bar pretty high for any potential 
 sequel. But luckily, DICE hit that mark and then some.
  
  Take 3 equally powerful factions, toss in some different infantry weapons, add some air, land and 
 sea based vehicles and you have Battlefield 2. Having an internal stat-tracking service only adds 
 to the addictiveness trying to one-up your friends by spending that extra hour gaining more points 
 to unlock that new sniper rifle.
  
  Definately not a one-man-army game either. You must rely on your teammates just as much as they 
 rely on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_ferret123
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  this is it. this is the greatest game of all time. this is it. i have gotten a total of 300 hours 
 of play time off of this game, not to mention the 100 i have playing the expansion. it NEVER EVER 
 gets old. it just doesnt. this has the greatest multi-player of anygame i have played. its simply 
 like pure unconcentrated fun. if god made a game, it would be battlefield 2. the graphics are like... 
 i dont even know. i dont know its just an experience that you haev to play, to really beileve. 
 i cant even like start to describe the music and the voice overs. they are perfect. and there are 
 so many vehicles and so many ways to utilize there powers. its just a rush. if you do not have 
 a computer, then you should get the computer just for this. and better be a good ass computer. 
 ive never played a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimatoad2000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 7, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  bf2 is a great game with a few problems , if you have a good graphics card , over 1 gig of ram 
 and some patience for some pretty bad bug fixes and lag issues to become fixed this is a game for 
 you.
  
  i gave the gameplay a 9 because it rules the only plague is some glitches that get in the way , 
 teamates with enemy signs , lag and some random crashes .
  the server browser wont update after you chance some settings.
  the graphics get the 7 because 
 you need a goooooood gpu for it and it dosnt look amazing even with one.
  the sound is awesome , hearing atrillary will scare you and make u run
  the value is great , 
 you will be playing this oen for a wile 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joint2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is the third game in the popular Battlefueld Franchise.
  
  The game is awesome all over the board. There is a ton of stuff to do.
  
  First, here is the 
 story. The USA is fighting a fictious war aganist the Chinese and the MEC (Middle Eastern Colation) . 
 That's not much however, it good enough to make some awe-inspiring landscapes!
  
  There are urban maps that feel extermely realistic. There are also some maps that place you in 
 rural farms and towns. The graphics engine though demanding is still amazing and countiues to impress 
 no matter how long you play.
  
  The Vehicles are not overpowered which is good. Infantry really take a big role in the battlefield. 
 Anti-Tank missle tear through the massive tanks. Sinpers keep tank gunnners on their feet. Special 
 Ops keep fear high among tank commander as they stick C4 on your armor and detonate. Then you explode 
 in an amazing fashion.
  
  Also, presistent stats is an increabible good feature. I can check my progress from time to time.
 
  
  Teamwork was also implented very well. Work with a squad and you get an experince you have never 
 experinced before in FPS gaming.
  
  However, the game has some flaws. The high system requirments may keep some low-end computers from 
 running the game. There are also some stat padding which becomes a hassle once in while.
  
  Nevertheless, Battlefield 2 is simply the best game you could ever buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJMikhail
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 3:24 am PT
Review:  One of the best games I have played but why? When I first played battlefield 1942, I thought to 
 myself a modern version of combat would look better because Call of Duty in my opinion already 
 won the war on WW2 games, the intensity was incredible. However, in Battlefield 2 you dont have 
 that same intensity.
  
  If that is a down point to the game, then you so many more reasons to get the game.
  
  The 
 game itself is combat, fun maybe, but tactically you have to be so good to survive in battle. You 
 have a team, you order them to obey your instructions, you heal the wounded, you repair vehicles, 
 you blow tanks, you ambush the enemy and have I missed something else??
  
  It offers the lot, place yourselves in high positions and battle enemies in highly fought battles, 
 it times and energy. Its not one of those games that you just shoot to kill and then the round 
 is complete. The Multiplayer, in my opinion, is one the greatest ones you will ever experience 
 and a good point to start with is the demo itself, that will give you a feel on how the game is.
 
  
  64 combatants in one map, the scale of war is incredible that once a battle starts, you have to 
 think fast, its no sitting behind a wall and thinking everything will be alright. Most games I 
 find that you can't really use a map to your advantage. With Battlefield 2, the map is everything 
 you need to succeed in battle, by knowing the ins and outs could be a decisive victory against 
 the enemy. You will find that this is not always the case, it will come to a point where the enemy 
 guesses right and you have to think what the next tactical decision will be.
  
  Here is a case scenario, you are entering foreign land, your troops move in with your tanks. The 
 next minute, your tank is taking out with an RPG, your men are being ambushed, what do you do? 
 You could, a) move your men out of there and withdraw risking massive loss of life and armour, 
 b) fight till the death and never leave your men behind, c) call in the artillery and get them 
 to bombard the location your in risking your own life, d) hold out until more reinforcements arrived 
 after spawning from death and I could go on. 
  
  Thats the beauty of the game, theres no real limit, you have a full arsenal of weaponry from tanks 
 to fighter planes to machine guns, rocket launchers and the men on the ground. You choose your 
 tactics, how your approach is, you choose your who you are going to be (e, g. anti-tank, infantry, 
 sniper etc) and with these in mind, it will decide your fate, no draw but a victory or heavy defeat. 
 
  
  However, you do not just need to know what the good things are, I would slap this label on the 
 back of the game.
  
  WARNING: Highly recommend having a 256 MB Video card & at least 2.6 Ghz to 3.0 Ghz processor for 
 full optimum performance.
  
  This game, to have its full capabilities in terms of graphics will need both of the above, its 
 no good having a low 1.7 Ghz and a memory card of 128 Mb card because it does not give a real thrill. 
 The graphics are decent of my machine and I love the game, surely with a higher processor, the 
 games graphics would open my eyes and with extreme precision because it reveals all you need on 
 the battlefield. And I strongly recommend that you have a CPU like the above as well, otherwise, 
 there would be too much disappointment in the graphic level. But who am I to the blame creators 
 of Battlefield for creating such a beautiful game? It is too good even for itself to fall at the 
 hurdle, you just need a better computer.
  
  Battlefield has crossed the final hurdle but its for you to decide which position it falls. To 
 me, its first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -tridgen-
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  ok this game is really good talking in general but lets start talking about the good
  
  good: well this game has some good gameplay good sound effects and music (you know the ones in the 
 loading times) also the graphics are really cool even if i play in low cuality but ive seen pics 
 and really impresses
  me.
  
  ok lets talk about the bad...
  
  bad: ok this game suffers lots of lag when you play online also every person will punish you only 
 for one TK the loading times are awfully long
  and may frustrate you by times also the accuracy of the weapons (especially the sniper rifle) its 
 horrible and only this small things can make you avoid this game.
  
  if you're really lookin' for one good online experience buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobi22
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  great graphics great gameplay great sound its just great pop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop 
 a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop 
 a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop 
 a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop 
 a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop 
 a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a mompop a momv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alsonl
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 3:22 am PT
Review:  Given the fact that it was one of PC gaming's most popular franchises, it wasn't surprising when 
 Electronic Arts announced that they'd be bringing the Battlefield experience to home consoles. 
 What was a bit of a surprise, however, was EA's decision to call the game Battlefield 2: Modern 
 Combat. After all, it was the first game to land on consoles, making the inclusion of a 2 a bit 
 strange. It's also might lead players to believe that it's an extension of the action found in 
 Battlefield 2, the proper sequel that currently tearing up the PC charts. For better (and for worse) , 
 this a completely different game, one that changes the tried-and-true Battlefield formula enough 
 to make it feel like a unique experience. 
  
  Like most war games set in the not-so-distant future, Battlefield 2: Modern Combat features a story 
 that might as well be ripped from the pages of Tom Clancy's latest techno-thriller. Political upheaval 
 in the former Soviet state of Kazakhstan has forced the United Nations (and their close allies, 
 the United States) to send troops into the region. Not surprisingly, the powers-that-be in China 
 are threatened by the influx of troops into their neighbor, and they have sent their own forces 
 into the war-torn country. You'll be able to switch back and forth between controlling the Americans 
 and Chinese forces. It ends up being a nice way to see the battles (and the overall war) through 
 the eyes of your opponents. 
  
  You'll even be able to see the action from a number of soldiers in a single battle, thanks to the 
 game's unique "hotswap" feature. If you want to switch to another unit, simply face that soldier 
 or vehicle (until the icon above them lights up) and press the swap button to take control. The 
 hotswap feature serves a number of purposes. It's the best way to get from one area to another, 
 as you can quickly zip through all of the action to take on the challenge at hand, without having 
 to worry about getting taken out en route. 
  
  The hotswap mechanic is also a great way to ensure that you're playing with the right man for the 
 job you're tasked with. For instance, you might be standing on a ridge and picking off enemies 
 with your sniper rifle, when suddenly a foe hops into a helicopter and takes off. Since you're 
 not going to be able to down the chopper with your rifle, you can quickly switch to a bazooka-toting 
 engineer to blast it out of the sky. The hotswapping is definitely one of the most fun elements 
 of the game, and it's one that helps to set Battlefield 2: Modern Combat apart from its competitors. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrch
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I bought Battlefield 1942 and Battlefield Vietnam a little after BF2 came out I would have bought 
 BF2 but my computer wouldn't run it. I started hearing about it more after BF2 came out, so I tried 
 it out. I thought it was a great game. I liked the games so much I bought I bought an ATI Radeon 
 X700 pro and 512MB of RAM. That ended up costing me about $300, but when I played BF2 it was worth 
 it. The game looked great. I played the game online for awhile got use to the game and then had 
 a lot of fun. There are tons of awesome moments on this game. 
  
  Ex. - I was driving a RIB to attack an enemy base from an aircraft carrier. I see an enemy fighter 
 in the distance. I ignored it thinking it'll pass me. I was wrong. It launched 4 missiles at me 
 missing me by inches and then passes over. I look back and it looks lie its going away but then 
 it starts turning. I'm not even halfway to land yet. It begins launching missiles at me again as 
 I swerve all around barely dogging the missiles. Then an APC starts shooting at me from shore. 
 The helicopter makes about 3 more passes and then finally takes time to line up its shot and hits 
 me when I'm about 30 yards from shore.
  
  These are the moments that make BF2 so great.
  
  The game is strongest in multiplayer. In multiplayer you can form squads. There can be a max 
 of 9 squads. Each squad has squad leader. The squad leaders give the squad members orders and the 
 commander gives the squad leaders orders. The commander can launch artillery strikes, UAVs, scans, 
 and send supplies. They can also give squad leaders orders. Squad leaders give squad members orders. 
 Sometimes squads won't follow orders and everybody will be spread out and its not as fun. It is 
 important to find a serer with people who cooperate well.
  
  The single player AI isn't very good, but its better than the older Battlefield's. If you can play 
 multiplayer fine without much lagging I wouldn't even bother with the single player.
  
  There are awards, weapons, and ranks you can earn in BF2 are cool. They makes you really want to 
 work hard.
  
  Battlefield 2 is a great game and is a game that anybody would love.
  If you have the right computer and the money What are you waiting for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroSonicT
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  (my friend dosn't have an account but he wants to write a review on this game, so... here he is)
 
  
  This game is soooooooooooooooooooo awsome the ranks the graphics and the multiplayer............ 
 omg ITS BLOWIN MY MIND buy it NOW! NOW! dont jus fool around BUY IT! The game will please a guy 
 who hates FPS's its got strategy and hey who doesnt like artillary strikes and supply drops? and 
 polaus a unlockable gun is a frekin 50 CAL! The vehicles are made like the real thing so it will 
 take some time ta fire up the jet or helicopter but only like 3 seconds and plus who dosent like 
 to apply for commander and kick the other guy out cuz your ranks higher? BUY IT! NOW!
  
  (please give a round of applause to Big Al) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Itachi-Uchi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 4, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I want to start off by saying: "this game is the best and most addictive game I have played to 
 date!" It's got everything I want in a game, with some minor things missing (don't worry doesn't 
 effect the gameplay or anything) . 
  First off, it has stunning graphics. They are really up-to-date and I can only complain that if 
 you don't have a high-end graphics card, you're going to have some troubles, like lag or long loading 
 periods. 
  Second, the gameplay is amazing! Just truly a-maz-ing!! You've got three teams to chose from and 
 from those three are six different soldier types. The three teams are the U. S. Marine Corps (USMC) , 
 Middle East Coalition (MEC) , and the Chinese People's Army. The six soldier types are Special Ops, 
 Anti-Tank, Medic, Sniper, Assault, Support and Engineer. The Special Ops generally use their semi-auto 
 gun and C4 explosives. They use their gun to take out enemy infantry and their C4s to take out 
 armor, such as tanks and APCs. The Anti-Tank does exactly what it says in the name: destroys tanks. 
 Though it isn't always tanks sometimes armored cars or APCs. They also have an automatic SMG. To 
 take out their bigger enemies like tanks and such that I mentioned before, they have a guided missile 
 strapped on their back. The Medic is also a general name. Medics are there to revive you when you 
 have been "critically wounded" or give you med kits when you're running low on health. They also 
 have an SMG but isn't used as much as their healing abilities. *Hint: The medic can rack up points 
 quickly by many revives and healing points* The Sniper uses, well basically a sniper to take out 
 their enemies from far off distances. To protect themselves with their back turned, they use claymores, 
 wich explode when infantry gets to close to it. As for Assault or Engineer, I don't have much experience. 
 I know that Assault have good aim, making them able to take out enimies quickly, when in prone 
 position. The Support units are like the medic because they also provide supplies for the other 
 team members, by supplying them with ammo, like the medic with med kits. Engineers can also repair 
 vehicles with their trusty wrench. ;) Besides all the soldier types and teams there are thirty 
 vehicles in the game, including tanks, APCs, helicopters, planes, and armored cars. Combine all 
 this with several exciting maps you get great and addicting gameplay!
  Third, the ranking system is just a great way to prove yourself worthy and want to play the game 
 that much more! There are tons and tons of ribbons and badges to collect in th game. To unlock 
 these badges and ribbons be sure to be playing on line in a "ranked server." 
  Finally like I said it's definatly worth your money, just remember to have an up-to-date computer, 
 so check the technical requirements before you go out and spend fifty bucks on it. Other than that 
 you got a good game with minor annoyances, like problems with servers, lag, and it does take a 
 lot of your computer's power and resources to run. As for the lag and server probs, it's the servers 
 fault unless your comp is lagging due to crappy technical specs. I definatly recommend this to 
 the old school PC gamer and to new comers to the platform. If you're old school you'll probably 
 have a good comp, but if you're new, get some answers and check the technical specs. Do the homework! 
 Only thing I wish they had was a friends list type of thing were I could just join a server that 
 my friend is currently playing in. I almost forgot that there are also patches that need to be 
 installed after installing the game itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ff7redxiii2001
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and adicting to say firstly. 
  
  I did not have a chance to play the first (1942) but I know it is better. The game has rather high 
 requirments and currently my computer dosen't like to run it 75% time so I am working on getting 
 a new comptuer so I can play some of the new games. But I have had several hours at my house and 
 at friends houses to play this.
  
  The online gameplay is very fun, the difference is class choices is well done and gives balance 
 for certain situations. With a virety of different weapons it is hard to find what works for you. 
 Each difference army has different guns that have different characteristics. For example, the US's 
 Sniper rifle is powerful but bolt action making it slow, but the Chinese rifle is semi-automatic 
 and I personally like the scope but isn't as powerfull with each shot as the US rifle. 
  
  The Vehicles are well varied and not to hard to use. The flying vehicles, espically the airplanes 
 take a great deal of skill to fly and also to use correctly. Each vehicle can take a good amount 
 of hits before brought down. Almost everyone one can carry more then one soldier. So transporting 
 troops is can be quick and much better then by ground.
  
  The one thing I like about the game is the Medic and engineer classes, with the ability to resupply, 
 fix, and revive team members they can be the matter of winning. Also having a smart and tactical 
 commander calling supply drops, artillery and setting up AUV's is also vital. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2nd_II_None
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 3, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Despite the fact that this game is not the second game in the series, it's really the third, i 
 thought that this game was a great improvement over the last one and a great multiplayer experience. 
 I have had more fun with other games but this one is still good and i really would recommend it 
 to anyone who likes a great multiplayer experience and a great FPS experience. But for those who 
 think they have a better game to replace this game play that because it isnt a revolutionary game. 
 I'm gonna give this game a hard rating because it varies among the players online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VVaNt3D
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  this game by far is better than halo 2 by far. modern combat has amazing graphics with amazing 
 gameplay, wide range of weapons and vehicles and you can fly helicopters.
  the sounds are great and the hotswap feature is good aswell, this is the best fps on the market 
 in my opinion. i got this game 1 week ago and thats all ive been playing this game is worth the 
 money you have to try it out if your a fan of fps. who ever came up with the hotswap feature is 
 a genius, when you die you dont have to restart the mission all over again yuo just go to another 
 guy but you lose 5000 points.
  
  this game is argubaly the best war game ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grentz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  At first i did not like this game at all, confusing, always got wasted by everyone online.
  
  But after not playing for a few months, i got it out again and started playing and learning 
 how to play. Man, what a great game. The graphics are great, lots to do, tons of weapons, tons 
 of team play options, lots of vehicles, and good mix with the Kits.
  
  The game is set to be real life warfare which i prefer over sci-fi war. It is nice to see a game 
 set in our time with real warfare as well as i was getting tired of the old MOH WW2 type games.
 
  
  There are lots of maps, vehicles, ways to get points, and it just overall is tons of fun. Also, 
 there are tons of stats to this game, more than i have ever seen before. BF2Tracker. com can give 
 you an idea of how literly everything you do is recorded.
  
  There are some issues, like TeamKilling punishment sets you back a lot of points when it is just 
 an accident sometimes. Also, sometimes the whole idea of vehicles is hard as people who stink in 
 them will take them everytime and lose the game for you. But besides that, on ranked servers the 
 game is seeminly unhacked (i have never been hacked/modded and i have played over 200hrs against 
 halo where its every other game)
  
  If you have a pc that can handle it, lose the child games and get a real game, BF2 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zahik
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  Nothing new to add here..
  I got a lower-than-medium FPS rate (Which is good :) ) on my crude computer..
  P4 3.0
  1G of 
 Ram
  Gigabyte 5700LE
  
  I don't blame anyone about the little options in single player mode, but until I get my DSL connection 
 license .. I gonna live in a cave :) ..
  Here is the only miss in this Fine game .. There is only 16 maps instead of 32 and 64 .. So, to 
 gain access to these maps, you have to own a DSL connection .. which is a boring process, but I 
 know it'll worth the wait!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _meteora_
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  I was at my friends place and couldn't believe what I was seeing. The communication between players, 
 the hardcore action. This was an ultimate online FPS. 
  
  The range of options go on and on. The way you can fight was great. Whether it be by air, land 
 or sea. The possibilities were endless. The gameplay was amazing and had a great "war" atmosphere 
 feel to it. The intensity and fun involved is beyond belief. This game is a top of the line shooter.
 
  
  Firstly, the graphics are smooth and top of the line. There wasn't much I could pick out of the 
 graphics rendering. 
  
  Same with the sound. I love how each side is spoken in its native tongue. And the warfare sound 
 is so realistic. Guns blazing, helicopters flying overhead and the artilery is mindblowing. If 
 you have 5.1 surround sound, turn it up and you'll be emerged into a war. Thats how intense this 
 game is.
  
  The gameplay as well adds lifespan to it. The ranking system allows you to unlock new weapons, 
 compare your rank online with the leaderboards and show your rank when you play.
  
  There isn't much wrong with this game, although, you would have to be a hardcore BF fan to have 
 this keep you entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigE_mustang
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  the graphics on this game is great and gameplay is extraordinary this game was recommended to me 
 by a friend and im glad i bought it so be a friend to yourself and buy this game i was getting 
 dissapointed in PC games until i bought this one now im on my pc all the time........ only downside 
 is that this game is a beast and you need a pretty good system to run it well but like i said if 
 u have at least 1 GB of ram you should b great and pleased with your purchase. it is a pretty difficult 
 game to master... i still get pwned on online but im getting better this game is very addictive 
 i almost missed goin to king kong today cuz i lost track of time playin the game online its just 
 great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weewalio
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is basically designed for those who play shooters exlusively. Unless you have spent the 
 last few years playing Quake, Unreal, Counter-Strike and Half-Life for SEVERAL hours a day, your 
 experience with Battlefield 2 will go something like this;
  
  *spawn* Ok, lemme peek around the wall- DEAD.
  *spawn* Hmm, ok... I'll try to leg it to that jeep- 
 DEAD.
  *spawn* AHA!! He has his back turned to me, I'll just- DEAD.
  *spawn* Didn't I just shoot him point-black with a .50 cali- DEAD.
  *spawn* DEAD.
  *spawn* 
 DEAD.
  *spawn* DEAD.
  "Are you sure you want to quit?"
  
  This game cost me 70 dollars Cdn, and I am sitting here literally boiling with rage at the sheer 
 waste of it. "A must-have for anyone that enjoys PC gaming"? I've never gotten this frustrated 
 this fast with any game. Fantastic graphics and great sound mated to absolute garbage gameplay. 
 I'll say it again; unless you're already GODLY when it comes to shooters, *** AVOID THIS GAME ***. 
 You WILL NOT have the opportunity to improve; you'll simple be a convenient target for those who've 
 been playing for years.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenedinator
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why everybody praises this game so much. Its not that breathtaking in gameplay and 
 gets boring after 5 or 6 hours... It could have been MUCH more awe-inspiring considering that and 
 lifespan, but then again, its Battlefield and you can't say its horrible so I give it this aforementioned 
 score. The graphics are okay, rather quite far more superior than the rest top-of-the-line FPSs 
 on the market. The sound is great. I can't say I didn't like this game, it was good at warfare. 
 Great multiplayer capabilities, I'll give you that. To summarize, a 2nd cousin of the original 
 Battlefield, which was on the list of my personal 10 favorite games. I simply loved that game. 
 This was a rough but fair attempt of the vicious wars in the Middle East, especially in Iraq (now 
 not anymore an official war, majorly attacks on Iraqi people and muslims) . If you've heard about 
 this game so much and you're amazed, you could play it at a friend's house, download the demo, 
 or just simply rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterFighter5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This is a superb online shooting experience worthy of any FPS fan. This game offers a wide variety 
 of maps, multiple weapons, squads, unlockables, vehicles/aircraft, and an insanley good multiplayer 
 experience. You can choose from 3 different countries: USA, MEC, or CHINA, which offers a variety 
 of differnt weapons, vehicles, and soilders. To get the full BF2 experience you need a fantastic 
 computer (i. e alienware) , need to play in a squad, buy a mic to talk within your squad, and a joystick 
 to fly in jets and copters. The only down side to BF2 is that you need a great computer system to 
 play it, and occasionaly it suffers from severe lag. But all in all I have enjoyed playing this 
 game for countless hours, and and I dont plan to stop any time soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuff1444
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  If you want a game with action this is it, every game you play is something different, you can 
 play alone or with a group of people, get into a helicopter and take your team mates to a different 
 base there are many different vehicles to use from planes to cars to tanks and more, whats nice 
 also that you can master flying a plane and have dogfights with the enemy or bomb a enemy base 
 or tanks whatever you wish . for me there is nothing worse than playing a game and finishing it 
 and that's it your done and it goes to collect dust, with battlefield 2 like I said it never gets 
 old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenkeThaMan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a "Modern World War FPS".
  It has all the best wepon human has ever created.
  And the best cars and tanks!
  One of the 
 new stuffs is that sqad is now avalebal!
  You can be commander over "alfa sqad" and over the team.
  One of the grat diffrent from Battlefield 
 1942 is that the map arent so big!!
  Now its maps for 16 32 and 64 players.
  And the maps are disigned for exampel 32 players.
  So that is good... :D
  Battlefield 2 is 
 anavebal for The Xbox And Ps2: Battlefield 2 Modern Combat!
  Dont even think abuot it! You Buy this game two things: Its better and its cheeper!
  
  So 
 have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Intro: Battlefield 2 has been one of those long awaited games. After the huge sucess for Battlefield 
 1942 the Gaming World has been hanging on for a sequal, and finally it is here. Many people love 
 it, but I personally was quite disappointed in it. I will write this review non-biased though as 
 not everyone is interested in single player.
  
  Graphics 9/10:
  As you would expect the graphics are beautiful and flawless. The only problem is some of scenery 
 seems a little lacking or empt in some places. Soldiers stay true to there form and are easily 
 distinguishable between the teams. Also whichever kit you play, its is easy to tell you a part 
 so you won't have any mix ups. Scenery has been improved from 1942, having more variety and making 
 it more interesting than just some plain walls.
  
  Gameplay 
  Single Player Gameplay 2/10:
  Multiplayer Gameplay 10/10:
  The games engine has not been changed 
 from the basics that were so loved in BF1942, all the basics are there, good movement, vehicle 
 driving and shooting. Almost everything has been improved too. No longer will you crash an aeroplane 
 or helicopter into a wall, well not as much anyway, the flight system has been vastly improved 
 and controlling an aircraft is much easier with a mouse and keyboard. You also have your own original 
 kits; Assullt (Close range weapons, smoke grenades) , Sniper, Anti-Tank, Medic, Engineer. There are 
 also some new kits such as the special forces. Weaponary has improved and is more accurate to fire 
 and less frustrating, however it is harder to get a pinpoint shot on your target as many weapons 
 are without a targeting reticule.
  Ground vehicles are also improved. They drive a lot more easily and weapons on them make a lot 
 more sense in their positoning. However moving in between driving a vehicle and using a weapon 
 is not nearly as simple as in BF1942, if you are new to the series though, I doubt you will find 
 it a problem. You still have your classic game mode which is mostly conquest, in which you must 
 drain your opponents tickets by killing them and controlling the majority of flags on the map.
 
  Now, my major problem with this game; the lack of a single player mode. You still have instant 
 battle where you can take on some bots on some maps for practice, but there is no longer a campaign 
 mode, everything is multiplayer over the net. So, you could go verse some bots by yourself, but 
 there is nothing to accomplish at all in single player.
  In multiplayer you get to play across the net against other humans. You get stats to updatye and 
 tou can also win wards through doing various things on a ranked server, such as highest score in 
 the team, best teamwork etc. However, if your computer fits the minimum requirements or only has 
 512RAM, then you may as well forget mutliplayer, you will get a lot of lag, even over broadband 
 or ADSL. Also, many servers will kick you if your ping is too high which can be frustrating.
  
  Sound 8/10:
  Typical battlefield. No background music at all, just sound effects from gusbn, 
 movement etc. All well done though. Come on EA, just some soft background music would be nice!
 
  
  Replay Value 9/10:
  Seen you get to play online and try to win awards there is virually on end, so much value to the 
 game. However, eventually you will probably win all the awards and then the game becomes a bit 
 pointless, unless you start a new profile, which will keep you interested. Obviously one-playr 
 has little value at all as it is really only for practice.
  
  Conclusion /10:
  Battlefield 2 is a great game, don't get me wrong, but its lack of single player was a huge disppointment 
 for me and playing online could only interest me for so long. But if you don't have a high spe4ed 
 net connection, or only fit the minmum requirements, or were a big fan of campaign mode in BF1942, 
 then seriously consider buying thisgame. If you don't care about single-palyer then go buy it, 
 if your only interested in multiplayer, you can't really g wrong with BF2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EscoDaddy14
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is one of the best war-fighting games I have ever played. The graphics are insane, 
 the rag doll physics are amusing to watch, and the gameplay is your typical FPS, just with variety.
 
  
  When you first start you have to pick a spawn point and your weapon kit, you can be either a medic, 
 assualt, spec ops, engineer, anti-tank, anmd support.
  
  The levels are soooo huge, you have no idea, if your on foot, you better be a track superstar because 
 you wont get anywhere fast. Thank goodness, because there are many different vehicles that serve 
 many different purposes. You got transport helo's and land vehicles, you got tanks, jets, attack 
 helo's, buggies, and some more.
  
  THe main part of the game that will have you hooked is the online. Up to 64 players, on the big 
 maps makes for some intense gameplay and it is very challenging. Plus there are some built in incentives 
 like earning certain ribbons, medals, and your overall Marine rank. Also you can unlock new weapons 
 when you achieve certain ranks.
  
  Overall its a must have for PC gamers and FPS addicts. But all the greatness comes at a price, 
 because this bad-boy takes one heck of a gaming rig. Some big things may have to be upgraded to 
 enjoy this such as memory or your video card. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vietnamgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Battle Field 2 for the PC is the most realistic First Person Shooter I have played too this day!! 
 Battle Field 2 also has the best graphics I have seen for a military/action game. The game has 
 a very fun gameplay that never gets boring, and has a very large variety of weapon kits for your 
 soldier. But, this game ends up costing alot more than fifty bucks for some of you people like 
 me who have bad computers. I had to buy a whole new computer system in order to actually play the 
 game. The gane has a very insteresting way of ranking you, and it is very fun chasing plains and 
 choppers through the air, shooting at them, and well watching the stray missiles hit trees and 
 blow them up. The ability to blow up bridges really excited me, and the amount of detail EA put 
 into one little blade of grass was just amazing!!! This game was really close to the actual world, 
 you could shoot threw thin surfaces like wooden doors or fences. This game is defenetly worth every 
 penny you spend on it, and also was worth the wait. This game had very easy controls to catch onto, 
 and had some very interesting things added in. I'm sure this has happened to other people, but 
 an RPG flew right threw the cargo area of the Black Hawk I was in!!!! I also have fun shooting 
 the wires of the crates with machinegun nests, and then watching the crate fall, roll, and smash 
 the person that was shooting at us. The ability to issue commands to your team members and they 
 actually listen is pretty cool. And when you play multiplayer, it will be the best time of your 
 life killing spoiled 12 year olds with too much money. I give this game a 10 out of 10!! It's an 
 instant must have for any of you who like modern FPS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidSnake12345
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 1, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is good... but you need the newest computer out there! And You need to learn fast, how 
 to play! I got own so00o many times it just sucks... now i know what I'm doing. But there's to 
 much LAG!!! Just don't count on the A. I. to be the best when your playing by yourself.... they 
 tend to give you an advantage so you can kill them. Teammates don't really follow orders, sometimes 
 they get in your way and you kill them by accident and then you die by enemy fire. It depends on 
 your computer and if you played this game before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narcissuscon
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game in 2005. Great graphics and sound the wepeons rock and sound so reall. 
 the multyplayer is extreamly fun perfect.
  the only thing thats not so great is the wait times even though it will be long it defintly worth 
 the wait. i love this game so mucg the background are really good and the squad concept is great. 
 The sounds are very realistic also the comba, like the aquads go in and kill everyone in your way. 
 if u diobt like this game u have bad taste in games. Another thing is getting medals and unlocking 
 wepeons adn all that fun stuff.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 366z0rs
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:45 pm PT
Review:  This game takes the genre that was created in BF: 1942 and multiplies if tenfold. Just about everything 
 in this game is solid, from the graphics to the sound. The persistent scoring system is a nice 
 touch, and allows you to feel some measure of satisfaction by peforming special tasks. The ability 
 to get points for healing, ammo giving, or kill assissts also ensures if you're a mediocre warrior 
 you can still advance through the ranks. 
  
  Only gripe I would have about this game is the EXTREMELY long loading times for the maps. But this 
 can be easily overlooked, as what you get for your time is stellar.
  
  If you loved BF: 1942, or any of the BF incarnations, or just about any semi-realistic shooter, 
 then this game will be your cup of tea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnoni
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2005 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Bunny hopping, M203ing C4 throwing. Just a few of the things that BF2 Brings to mind.
  
  Yes I do like the free flowing movement of the Maps which give you the opportunity to pretty much 
 go where you wanna go. The graphics are superb. I am still amazed at the water every time i am 
 in a game, the detail that it has.
  
  But besides all the pro, s for this game are the negatives as mentioned. Ruining a game that if 
 it didnt have these attributes would be phenomenal. Hopefully with the advent of the 1.13 patch 
 things will be put to rights.
  
  On this note it actually looks like EA listens to the end user unlike Novalogic and JO. It is refreshing 
 to see on the change list for the new patch that alot of the current exploits will be put to rights. 
 This being said I think we will have the game of the year for 2005 on our hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  My first time of enjoying a true multiplayer game. I dislike indoor multiplayer and BF2 game me 
 something to enjoy. Been playing it for 7 months now and i still love it. There are a lot of bugs 
 in the game and it is unstable sometimes but the game itself makes u ignore all the hassle. I would 
 recommend this game to anyone who loves FPS and for first timers who want to socialize online. 
 I have to tell you, this game is funny, very funny seeing players standing for a long time waiting 
 to steal a jet. Its just palin fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIGAKILL
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 1:54 am PT
Review:  I don't think I would change anything about this game. The gameplay is perfect, I couldn't ask 
 for better graphics, and sound is awesome. The only down side, is that you need a good computer 
 to run it. You especially need a good video card. I don't think the suggestion that EA gives you 
 for minimum video card compatibility is adequate. It says you need a Radeon 8500 or better. This 
 game didn't work for my 9250. It also didn't work for my friend's 9200. So I'd recommend a 9600 
 or better. An X series Radeon card would work for sure. I have a Radeon X800GTO and I highly recommend 
 it.
  I can run BF2 at highest possible settings with this card and still get smooth gameplay.
  
 
  My computer specs:
  2.93GHz 533MHz FSB Processor
  1GB RAM
  X800GTO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azcn2503
Rating: 3.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 5:33 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Battlefield 2 and the expansion pack for almost 200 hours now and now I'm well 
 and truly peed off with this game, for several reasons.
  
  * The game uses the hardware cursor during the menu's, then switches to a software cursor in the 
 game, which slows down the movement and makes selections less accurate. You can't change this.
 
  
  * The menu's are so, *so* clunky. Apply new filters to the server list and you're presented with 
 a blank screen. You then need to either connect to a non-existent IP address, and update the server 
 list again, or restart the game, which takes absolutely ages!
  
  * The shadows are very pixellated and distorted. Disabled them quickly; they are an eyesore.
 
  
  * The physics system is non-existent.
  
  * There is no blood or dismemberment, which might just give that extra bit of satisfaction when 
 you kill somebody.
  
  * The people who play the game *DO NOT COOPERATE*. You can be stuck in the same spot for the whole 
 round screaming 'Get me out of here', or 'Supplies needed here', or 'Artillery needed here', and 
 people will do absolutely nothing about it.
  
  * The game crashes. Although this is more infrequent than pre 1.12 / 1.03 patches, memory leaks 
 still occur after performing certain actions. The BF2. exe process can happily take up 1.5GB of 
 RAM, and more.
  
  * No action is taken against base-rapers and spawn-campers.
  
  * People are out there to spoil the game for you.
  
  * Weapon accuracy is abysmal.
  
  * 
 Conquest mode gets *REALLY BORING*, really quickly.
  
  Battlefield 2 is definitely *NOT WORTH YOUR MONEY* if you want to enjoy your multiplayer experience.
 
  
  To date I have been kicked from 35 servers, and banned 4 times, and mostly because of grumpy admins 
 and immature players.
  
  Don't even bother wasting your time on it; it's too frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonaManson
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:38 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is great in almost all aspects. Though it lacks a certain something. Battlefield 
 2 maybe the most anticipated game this year. It has a good squad function which is almost the same 
 as Operation's Flashpoint's Squad Functions only BF2 is done on a smaller scale. Graphics is one 
 of the best around i have seen but due to my computer specifications i have to run it on very high 
 graphics. But the Medium end graphics are good enough. Weapons are quite realistic though some 
 can be improved to make it more realistic. Multiplayer is great and basically thats the whole point 
 of this game. Gameplay is quite ok except for the fact that the planes are controlled unrealistically 
 and it would be a pain for those of you who play combat flight sims. The sound can be a bit disappointing 
 at times because it doesnt have the loud bang to it and it sounds a little soft. But Battlefield 
 2 lacks a certain something that other Tactical shooters or First person shooters have to offer. 
 BF 2 doesn't have a storyline. BF 2 would have been much nicer if it had a complete single-player 
 campaign to go along with its great multiplayer mode. Storyline's sometimes make a game more interesting 
 and more memorable. But thats obviously not the case here as it is solely a multiplayer game which 
 can be a little boring after awhile and at times frustrating. But Overall it is a good game just 
 not superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwms12345
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome if you have a powerfull enough computer. great graphics and wonderful gameplay. 
 You can also play with like 60 people on a server. The maps are alot of fun to play and most of 
 them have vehicles like planes helicopters and tanks witch are fun to use. The one complaint I 
 have is that planes and helicopters are hard to operate and that there isnt a weopons kit that 
 can take them down from the ground. I definatly recomend this game to anybody with a good computer 
 and a highspeed internet conection! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: duxy33
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 4:05 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is an intense action game which features a lot more firepower and enjoyment from 
 its predecessors. Not just because battlefield 2 is a modern warfare game; this game has also improved 
 its battle features, sound, and gameplay. 
  
  There are many scenarios to play but only limited maps to offer, as this may become frustrating 
 because the repetition of playing the same map will occur. But one impressive feature I like is 
 the communication between you and your allies. You can give commandments if youre the squad leader 
 and if you get the easy promotion to commander you can do so much more with your team like blasting 
 artillery into enemy territory which is exciting to do. 
  
  Again, you can also ride various vehicles like the previous battlefield's but this time its better 
 because the technology of the vehicles enhances the enjoyability of riding through the map killing 
 enemies.
  
  Another good feature in this game allows you to rank yourself to the top distinguishing yourself 
 from other players becoming veterans etc. This allows you to determine how intimidating you are 
 towards your enemy.
  
  To a conclusion, Battlefield 2 is best played multiplayer as you can create teams up to 32 players 
 which break into smaller squad groups, all co-operating in completing the same aim. The game is 
 very realistic, with many fun hours of playing. It has enhanced first person warfare shooters to 
 another level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBill
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is perhaps the most entertaining shooter out there right now that could be utter 
 perfection with just a couple patches. The gameplay is simple yet addictive and fair, with all 
 classes being almost perfectly balanced. Battlefield 2 does a great job at mixing realism with 
 multiplayer entertainment, cause as much as I love to see people go down in one hit, that would 
 probably take some of the fun out of these intense battles, and people would be dying WAY too often, 
 and even a whole team of Medics wouldn't be able to help. You can play with your own style and 
 the use of teammates is incredibly helpful. So if you want to go as a sniper team or a fire support 
 squad with even just one friend you can talk to, you'll have an absolute blast.
  
  There are, however, a few things that bother me, but I know they can all be fixed in patches! Here's 
 a few:
  
  Make hiding more effective! A sniper in a ghillie suit lying in the bushes at 200 yards is just 
 as easy to see as one standing in the middle of a parking lot! Or any soldier for that matter... you 
 just kinda notice them in the strangest places.
  Bunny Hopping: Someone needs to think a way to stop this, the lamest of all getaways. The energy 
 meter gives you just enough to keep going right after you jump. Maybe just a split second where 
 you go slow, or even stop before you continue on, as if to collect yourself. I've seen many a Military 
 Channel special on infantry, and I've never seen one man in the history of warfare bunny hop is 
 way across a field to avoid fire! 
  Pistol damage and variety: I don't care who you are, 5 shots to the chest of an unarmored soldier 
 should really put you down. While we're at it, I know some people must want some new pistols to 
 play with, why not throw in an FN Five SeveN or the new-age classic Deagle, or the SOCOM?
  Spawn Deaths: While not overly rampant, it does happen a bit too often where you'll spawn into 
 a game staring down the 120 mm cannon of an Abrams... and then you die. If someone could find a 
 nice way around this that would be spectacular.
  Ranking: Now, Having different types of ranking is fantastic, but there isn't one for just kill/death 
 ratio, or each specific class. Of course snipers are going to fight differently than engineers 
 or medics, so why should all the engineers and madics get all the glory? The only reason the number 
 one player is number on is because he flies a chopper and has guys shoot people with miniguns, 
 but that definitely doesn't make him the best SOLDIER, just an excellent chopper pilot. As a soldier, 
 the 1st-5th place guys don't even usually cross the 2:1 kill/death ratio, and if I were ranking 
 combatants, I'd give the award to the guy who does a lot of killin and a little dyin'!
  Strange Bugs: While this is the most fun game to play, it has many odd bugs that do many different 
 things. First of all, just getting all registered to play took about 2 hours becuase of login errors 
 and things of that sort. For an EA game, this game tends to crash my computer an awful lot, sometimes 
 my favorite servers are just gone, but they come back later, when I start a game it closes and 
 mimics a crashed game for about 1 minute, then starts up whatever game I chose to play in with 
 no problem, but you'd never know if you weren't paitent, and, as I saw another reviewer complain 
 about, I have never managed to get the PLAY NOW feature to work. However, I can easily just go 
 in and find a game to play.
  
  Now then, even with this seemily large array of problems, once you get into it these will all take 
 a back seat to your stat tracking and general desire for massive amounts of butt-whoopin! Overall 
 this game is tons of fun and worth the wacky loading times and other bugs that pop up sometimes. 
 Get it and I'll see you on the field! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Babolu
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  Well first of if you are looking for a complete sim game then this is not it. This is a pure diehard 
 fans game not a flight sim or a fighting sim but an adequate war game that will immerse you in 
 all of its glory. Dont expect to load up the game without problems if your computer isnt up-to-date 
 on the hardware side. While i love this game and many people dont i think alot of people would 
 agree with me when i say "If you love war games with great gameplay mechanics and sound you will 
 love this hur game!!!!"
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: strkr241
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:34 am PT
Review:  There's no story as such but that doesnt matter. a story would spoil this cool game. the single 
 player mode is just as good as the online experience (better in some ways) . the single player doesnt 
 have people constantly reporting enemies from across the map ( OF COURSE THERES ENEMIES ITS A WAR!!!) 
 the computers dont bunny hop when you are shooting them and the computers dont team kill (which 
 people online do try to do) .
  
  online has its upsides. you can do whatever you want if the server is pretty much empty. the maps 
 are bigger and theres more soldiers on the field. the ranking system is very rewarding also (even 
 if most the time it doesnt even work) . the higher the rank you are, the more powerful you feel 
 and the more soldiers will respect you and you can unlock new weapons to give you an advantage 
 over the ... worse players.
  
  on balance this is a good game and what with the new expansion pack it really is worth buying (there 
 will probably be a couple more expansion packs one day also) . if you love the feel of not being 
 alone in a war (like star wars battlefront) then this is a awsome game. if you just wanna blow 
 stuff up... thats cool too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-miller
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:51 am PT
Review:  Personally I hated Battlefield 1942 for three reasons. The graphics were terrible, the setting 
 was not to my liken, and the controls should have been better. Battlefield Vietnam however was 
 awesome because the graphics and the jungle setting made me fell comfortable taking out the Vietcong 
 with my M-16 Carbine. But Battlefield 2 is truly the holy grail of online gaming with plenty of 
 character classes to choose from. One of my favorites is the Special Forces because of the infamous 
 sticky bomb in which you stick on to enemy vehicles and blow them into scrap. Shooting enemy soldiers 
 with the AR-15 Carbine is real easy because it packs alot of power.
  Despite trying to control the vechicles in Battlefield 2, the gameplay is actually pretty good 
 although I wish you can sprint as long as you want instead of just short burst. The graphics are 
 also nice but it takes a high quality graphics card in order to run it on high settings. Sound 
 on the other hand is flawless, complete with huge explosions, intense firefights, and accurate 
 dialoge makes it sound more like modern war than most war shooters. With plenty of servers and 
 fun multiplayer modes and patches Battlefield 2 will get you hooked and you'll keep playing for 
 hours on end. Although plagued by a few flaws it is still a great game and just think what Battlefield 
 3 will look like, my best guess: FUTURISTIC COMBAT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuba05
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:48 am PT
Review:  BF2 has followed footsteps in its predicesors footsteps with another excellent game. BF2 is great 
 as you play as dfferent armies each with their pros and cons, plus with over 6 different kit types.
 
  The online mode has stat loggers, wich allows your progress to be recorded and you can be promoted 
 through the ranks. Badges etc can be also earned by doing different things.
  The only downside to this game is its specifications, as the game will only run on some quite new 
 graphics cards, and you will probably want a fast internet connection and at LEAST 1.5gb ram
  In my opinion, this beats the hell out of all other 1st person shooters like CS and Rainbow six.
 
  Go out and buy it, and get engrossed in the battlefiend 2 world: P: P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt14500
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 28, 2005 4:13 pm PT
Review:  So where do I start...
  
  I hear that Battlefield 2 was a great game and it was well worth your money and its addictive, 
 blah blah blah. So, I decided I'd check it out. I looked at the system specs and I had everything 
 it needed. I bought the game and was really excited to play. I installed it and starter a single-player 
 game just to get a feel for the controls, etc etc. The game actually was pretty good. Nice infantry 
 combat, excellent weapons, though the vehicles are hard to control but still, the game was enjoyable.
 
  
  The next day, I wanted to play single-player again just before I played it online. I set up thr 
 map, difficulty and I pressed "Play Now". It said "Loading" I waited, and waited, and waited and 
 finally realized that it was fronzen. I restarted my computer and tried again. Still waited awhile... 
 IT WAS FROZEN AGAIN!
  
  I was really pissed off. So I asked my dad (who knew alot about computers and games and crap like 
 that) what was wrong with the game and even he didn't know.
  
  EA, if you're reading this... you ripped me off you bastards!
  
  This is a good game, get it 
 if you like FPS's, but just PRAY you won't be as unlucky as me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barbutza69
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 11:10 am PT
Review:  When I asked one of my friends what was Battlefield 2 like... he said "well it's like Counter Strike". 
 I thought "Counter Strike?? Bleah!!! So many people went nuts over this game and I did not even 
 like it!!!" Don't ask me why.... OK!! OK!! Because I sucked!!! HAPPY??? All my friends played it 
 at home and I could not because my old computer was a PIECE OF GARBAGE!!!
  Ok... Back to Battlefield 2... I asked my friend..."Is it worth it?? Should I get it??" and he said 
 "That's a stupid question!!! Of course you should!!!"
  And he was so WRONG!!! IT is nothing like Counter Strike!!! Sure it is a first person shooter where 
 you battle with others or with the computer on a map but it's not a senseless gunfight where you 
 have to kill everybody to win... no you have tanks, vehicles, choppers, loads of weapons, medics, 
 snipers, technicians to repair the vehicles.... Ohh I could go on but I want to get back to playing 
 the game. So all that plus much more wrapped in state of the art graphics, great gameplay and excellent 
 sound to give you an addictive capture the FLAGS experience that you can share it with your friends 
 by killing them on the Battlefield (2) . I've had only one problem with the AI... sometimes while 
 I am the commander the soldiers don't follow my orders.. I say Go, go, go and they just sit there... they 
 don't respond or anything.... but that rarely happened so it's not a big problem.
  
  This game is a superb achievement by EA... so stop wasting your time reading this article and get 
 that game!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star67
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 28, 2005 9:47 am PT
Review:  Let me just say this, the multi-player in this game is great! And it is almost lag free! You will 
 spend hours and hours playing this game online! And you can play with up to 64 people! Can you 
 beleive that! This makes the battles seem very life like and intense! The guns and vehicles sound 
 just like they do in real life. The game looks great! The guns, the people, the vehicles look so 
 real! The single player is fun and challenging. Bottom line if you have a really nice PC please 
 go buy this game! You will not be dissapointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSoldier91
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 9:43 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is by far the best game ever. From ground combat, to dogfights, to even fights by 
 sea, you've gotta love this game. I've found myself in a number of occasions laughing because i've 
 killed someone. Such as,
  There was a plane behind me and he launched missiles, so i ejected and put on my parachute, but 
 i didn't remember that i had planted c4 on that plane and once seeing it while i was on the parachute, 
 he exploded.
  
  Battlefield 2 is extremely realistic, and deserves a high score.
  -Players ranging from 1-64 in one map. 
  -Awesome vehicles, weapons, and character classes.
 
  -Extreme game play that never gets boring
  -HUGE maps, which seems like you're really in the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeyandreous
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 27, 2005 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Hi, i'm mikey and i was given battlefield 2 as a chrismas present, i had all the specification 
 needed to play the game, but my computer would not allow me to play the game as my drivers were 
 apparently not compatible with nvidia, but when i looked up they were, i got my new computer for 
 chrismas and the specification was top of the range, yet the same error kept occoring even after 
 a re-install, i have played the game at a mates house and it lookes real good. So i got home determined 
 to make this game work, all i did was download the latest drivers for the game and it worked, but 
 every now and then the same error occors and i have to rstart my pc............. mikey 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killen707
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 1:25 pm PT
Review:  sysem specs:
  CASE : NZXT Nemesis Metal Mid-Tower Case 400W W/ side-panel Window (SILVER COLOR)
  CPU : (939-pin) 
 AMD ATHLON64 3200+ CPU w/ HyperTransport Technology
  MOTHERBOARD : (Sckt939) EVGA nForce4 SLI Chipset SATA RAID Dual PCI-E Mainboard w/GbLAN, USB2.0, 
 &7.1Audio
  MEMORY : 512 MB (256MBx2) PC3200 400MHz Dual Channel
  VIDEO CARD : NVIDIA Geforce 6600 256MB 16X PCI EXPRESS VIDEO CARD
  VIDEO CARD 2 : NVIDIA Geforce 
 6600 256MB 16X PCI EXPRESS VIDEO CARD
  MONITOR & LCD : NONE
  HARD DRIVE : 160GB Hard Drive (SATA150 - Hitachi 160GB 7200RPM 
  
  Optical Drive : (Special 
 Price) LG GWA-4161 16X DVDR/RW + CD-R/RW 
  SOUND : HIGH DEFINITION ON-BOARD 7.1 AUDIO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oncle_benny
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 27, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  I bought that game with a real good score on this website (2nd on best game of the year) , check 
 the specs before buying it o course... I came back home installed it, and then.... nothing ! the 
 game isn't working so I said there must be a patch or something, installed the patch... not working.... 
 I'm pissed off so I go on forums to read about this issue, am I the only one ???
  
  http://forums. ea. com/mboards/thread. jspa? messageID=185558&#185558
  
  EA and DICE are stealing 
 your money when you are buying this game !
  You pay for anything, EA don't care at all about unhappy customers, c'mon its an Online Game damnit 
 ! Customer support is the priority on this type of game. I hope you woon't buy this game its truly 
 a waste of money ! 
  
  Unhappy Csutomer,
  Oncle Benny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: run_rat_run
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 6:04 am PT
Review:  I know a lot of people would disagree with me on this, but i find battlefield 2 not all that good 
 at all. It requires one hek of a comp to run, even if you do meet the requirements you still probably 
 won't end up playing it due to massive lagging.
  
  The gameplay it self was ordinary, It's fun for the first few hours of playing (driving tanks, 
 choppers) but after that it gets pretty boring. 
  I don't know why people think this game is so great, there are much better games around to play 
 rather then this. I guess it's a good game to play for when you have an hour of spare time but 
 i cant stand playing this game for too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I never played the first Battlefield, but I did watch that Battlefield 2 video where the developer 
 was talking about the pizazz of the game while controlling the in game camera. To this day I have 
 never seen a missile go through the doors of a Blackhawk... typical marketing schemes. Anyway, the 
 graphics are very nice, the gameplay too. Much more complicated than CS in that it deals with up 
 to 64 players in more of a battle-atmosphere. A hit with the times, such as the case in Iraq and 
 the Mog. The loading soundtrack sounds like a porno, just a sidenote. Other than that, it is just 
 a jazzed up, open environmented, multiplayer FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSniperSteve
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 26, 2005 7:30 am PT
Review:  BF2 gets the award for one of, if not the best multiplayer FPS. 
  
  With up to 64 players on a map, vehicles like tanks, aircraft, helos, troop transports, and fast 
 jeeps coming up with great strategies to beat the enemy is fun, and the possibilities are endless!
 
  
  The squads and VOIP are perfect for organization and can take the place of TeamSpeak or Ventrillo. 
 The commander can send orders to any squad for attack, defend, move here, etc. 
  
  The weapons are relistic and fun to shoot. One shot to the head with one of the more high powered 
 weapons will bring the enemy down, but getting that headshot wont be easy, unlike older games BF2 
 has realistic accuracy. The M203 Gernade Launcher does get the name of a noob tube with its insta-gib 
 killing. Think of it as the Classic 'Rocket Launcher' of BF2.
  
  Tanks and Aircraft are not overpowered, there are times when a tank really doesn't help, and you 
 end up hopping out and running on foot with your trusty M16/AK47.
  
  The classes are well balenced aswell, each with their own weapons. 
  Medic, Spec-Ops, Engeneer, 
 Assault, Support, Sniper, and Anti-Tank each preforming thier roles very well. As a lone wolf the 
 medic class is the most common choice, but when the enemy rolls up in an APC you learn fast that 
 each class has its pro's and con's.
  
  Many of the classes, like engeneer or support arnt really the best killing class, but they provide 
 great support for team play. 
  
  On the tech side, BF2 is a system hog, and you'll need a Nvidia 5700 or Radeon 8500 or higher just 
 to PLAY! It will NOT work with anything less. Its reccomended for optimal play to have a 6800GT, 
 however I have a 6600Gt with 1 gig DDR 33 ram and it is playable. There is some lag in the big 
 fights, but if you stay away from the direct center of fighting you will be ok.
  It is also recomended to have an Audigy2 ZS or better sound card to hear the great sound effects, 
 however I run a SBLive and it works fine. There is a big difference between the two, and if you 
 can get the Audigy2 ZS go for it.
  
  Pros: 
  Great Multiplayer
  Online Stats
  Large maps
  64 Player Combat
  Vehicles are all balanced
  Good graphics & sound, if your computer 
 can support it.
  Classes are built to support eachother making the teamplay even better
  Weapons are fun and for the most part are balanced
  Has an expansion pack (BF2 SF)
  Patches 
 to fix bugs + new map.
  Overall great gameplay for the hard core strategist or shoot-em-up player.
  
  Cons:
  Some 
 bugs
  system hog, the need to upgrade your graphics card may deter you from getting this game.
  Lack 
 of various game modes
  Lack of a good single player
  Server lag in large battles
  
  Overall I rate it a 9.1
  Even though it has some faults its still an excellent game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiST3R_FRAG
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Short and simply, this game rocks.
  
  Pros: Graphics & sound, game play, multi player game play, ranking system, challenging.
  
  
 Cons: Semi-steep hardware requirements, long map load times, bad Internet game browser, un-explained 
 freezing/lockups unless you have a well-tuned system, there could be more maps.
  
  As many, I picked up this game, installed it, and jumped online. I must say, I was pleasantly surprised. 
 I had just built a new PC (after XBOXing it for about 3 years with no PC) and boy was I glad to 
 get back into PC gaming. The graphics are stunning, gameplay is smooth, the action is great, what's 
 not to love. The only drawbacks in the game are some stability issues, long map load times, and 
 a bad game browser. I'm sure that there will be patches soon enough to address the issues plus, 
 perhaps, optimization patches for different CPUs. If you've never liked nor played a FPS, then 
 give BF2 a try, it's the best piece of software gaming I've picked up in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1stpersonshoot
Rating: 5.1
Date: Dec 25, 2005 5:52 pm PT
Review:  battlefield 2 was a great game when i first bought it, yet after a while, it seemed to different 
 from what made me love vietnam. the commander addition was a great failure. totally useless, would 
 have been better without the artillery. also the way people can warp the game to create such an 
 unreal situation, such as jumping 5 feet into the air from a prone position created some difficult 
 and very frustrating situations. i liked the realistic feel of the previous battlefield games, 
 and this one seemed to arcadey to me. also, as of recently, it has frustrated me beyond belief 
 that i could never find a server that did not make me lag like crazy, ruining my game experience 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bell_103
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2005 4:06 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you notice about Battlefield 2 is its amazing graphics, accompanied by fantastic 
 sound. Straight away you are thrown into a immense battle, really making you feel part of an important 
 team. The multiplayer is quite possibly the best I have ever played, only being beaten by the classic, 
 Counter Strike: Source. Players are given a choice of six playing views: Special Ops, Medic, Assault, 
 Support, Sniper and Anti-Tank. Each of these specialities has its own weapons and advantages/disadvantages. 
 My personal favourite being Special Ops, in which you can plant C4 on enemy vehicles or plant in 
 a defensive position and move back and hit the switch, gleefully watching a vehicle blown to pieces! 
 Single player is also a great way for beginners to get to grips with the game before facing off 
 with players in multiplayer. But when you do start your multiplayer campaign, you will notice that 
 there are a number of ranks which you proceed up through as you get more kills etc. A higher rank 
 then unlocks better guns for you and gives you a much higher chance of becoming commander, being 
 able to command artillery, supply drops and enemy tracking devices of many sorts. Oh, and did I 
 forget to mention the numerous vehicles you can play in from helicopters to tanks, and boats to 
 transporting trucks. If you are going to buy one game this year, then there is an obvious choice 
 at hand... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nothing_curt
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 25, 2005 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong the Game is an outrageous experience especially being in the military, seeing 
 how close EA has got all the wpns, veh, and other mayhem from real life to the Computer screen, 
 playing it is fun, especially unloading a whole mag in someone. !!!!!! However the Patches can 
 F*** OFF, dont get me wrong, the patches make the system crash and not allow to play the game, 
 and it seems like I bought BF2SF for nothing? My comp has more than enough to run it. If anybody 
 knows of a way by all means help plz.
  
  i know im not the only one to experiance trouble with this but that still doesnt stop me from playing 
 the game and killing habeebs. haha
  
  well merry x mas people and a happy new year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w4rgasm
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 25, 2005 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Be prepared to waste your entire life savings on upgrading your piece of **** computer. This game 
 requires a hefty PC with top of the line graphics card.
  Besides the requirements, this game manages to make the original seem like a piece of crap. The 
 graphics will have you left speechless, or maybe you will even get a little "happy" when you seem 
 them. Gameplay manages to keep me playing over and over. But the same style of game can get a bit 
 repetive (with only one game mode that you can play) , but the game does make that one mode outstanding; 
 better than any other game's.
  A good buy, but I get tired of it after a months play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Scorched1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 24, 2005 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Ever since battlefield 1942 came out, I was hooked. Once Battlefield Vietnam was introduced I was 
 even more hooked. Now, battlefield 2 has finally arrived. This is the moment I have been waiting 
 for. This game rocks my socks. It is a very enjoyable game. Nothing is better than playing battlefield 
 2, going out to eat lunch, and then come back for seconds. This game is a must buy. There is only 
 1 problem with this game, and I think everybody knows what it is. Alright everybody at once now. 
  LAG! Connection problems are a hassle in this game and before 
 you buy it, make sure your computer can handle it. Nothing is worse than flying your plane doing 
 really well and then it starts getting crazy on you. Then next thing you know, you have either 
 been disconnected or found yourself face first into the hill side. Anyway, even with lag, this 
 game is an instant classic and is well worth the while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadGeorge987
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 24, 2005 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Like previous Battlefield games, Battlefield 2 aims to create large-scale warfare, getting up to 
 64 players in a single game. This Battlefield is based in a hypothetical near future with several 
 world super-powers battling it out. Although devoid of a storyline, Battlefield 2 has some great 
 multi-player, which is exactly what this game is about. 
  Like previous Battlefield games, BF2 is also class-based. A player may choose between any of the 
 6 classes, ranging from medic to engineer to anti-tank.
  Something important to note is that players gain ranks by accumulating global score. Rank becomes 
 important when applying for the new commander feature. 
  
  The initial game play works quite well. Each team starts with a re-enforcement count, known as 
 tickets. Every time a soldier dies (without a medic reviving him) , the team loses a ticket. A team 
 can also have a "ticket drain" by controlling too few outposts. 
  That being said, we can safely assume that action in every game will revolve around control points. 
 Teams will usually attempt to methodically push towards the enemy's control points, bringing all 
 the vehicles and weaponry they can. Teams usually also try to conduct "sneak attacks" by infiltrating 
 enemy territory and going where they're least expected. 
  The most innovative feature of BF2 are the squad and commander systems. A squad is a group of 1-6 
 people working towards a common goal under the leadership of their squad leader. The squad leader 
 can issue orders to the squad. 
  The commander on the other hand, is a special position you must apply for, and is awarded by on-line 
 rank (for example, if a sergeant and private both applied for commander, the sergeant would be 
 awarded the rank) . The commander operates the UAV scan, Satellite scan, supply drop, and artillery, 
 strike. The commander is also responsible for issuing orders to different squads. If the commander 
 can issue smart orders while helping his squad with his commander abilities, then the team has 
 a much better chance of taking over the map and draining the other teams' ticket count. Commanders 
 get a bonus on their global point count if their team wins the round. 
  The chain of command game play works surprisingly well. It would seem abusable, but the game creators 
 decided to make the commander abilities destructible. Players can receive points for destroying 
 (and repairing) the commander stations (such as the UAV trailer) . 
  The game play as a whole works very well. Vehicles are not abusable, as one might think. The ant-tank 
 kit, as well as stationary turrets, prove to be good enough counters to make vehicles not too strong. 
 
  
  On the technical side, BF2 has some of the most beautiful graphics to date if you can run on the 
 highest settings. However, most must run this game on rather low settings. Even on the lower graphical 
 settings, the game still looks great. 
  On the audio side, again we have a similar story: fabulous on the highest settings while still 
 great on low settings. Something to note is that the game uses 3 languages: English, Chinese, and 
 Arabic. Each is actually spoken correctly, which surprised me. However, I've heard that the Chinese 
 sounds a little foreign, but I don't see much use getting into that. 
  The game really does use great technology to please both your eyes and your ears. 
  
  The main 
 fault of this game is value. It costs as much a standard retail game, yet it is a multi-player 
 only game. I don't care if that's what the Battlefield series is for: if I'm paying for a full 
 game, I want some substance to it. 
  Not all is lost, though. You can still play some light skirmish matches against the AI, and some 
 custom modifications are out to allow for more single player opprotunities. 
  The multi-player has decent value to it. You now play for your on-line rank, which keeps you going, 
 but somewhat subtracts from the fun of the game, because you end up pushing youself. To enjoy the 
 rank system, just play games and focus on positively contributing to your team's victory, and you'll 
 see that you'll have more fun and points will come more naturally.
  A great way to increase the value of this game is to have friends that play it as well. Remember, 
 the game has an in-game communication system where you can talk to your team, or just your squad. 
 Eventually, you might be intrested in joining an online league, such as the ones at www. teamwarfare. com. 
 
  Why am I telling you all this? Because I want you people to get the best out of this game, and 
 increase the value of it. 
  
  In conclusion, BF2 is an exceptional FPS that has excellent multi-player, and limited single-player. 
 The only really short coming of the game is the value. I would recommend this game to people who 
 love FPS games, especially large warfare and military themed combat, who are mostly going to play 
 this game on-line. 
  
  -DeadGeorge987 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killswitch127
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 24, 2005 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Well this shooter is a must get. The value of the game is worth it since you don't have to pay 
 any extra money like world of warcraft. This is a game that is really good with team co-op. The 
 sounds in the game can get a little annoying at times but killing other players is the most satisfying 
 reward. Once you gain rank and rewards you feel more proud of what you have accomplished. It takes 
 alot of dedication to get better at this game. I recommend a joystick for those who want to fly 
 a helo or a jet fighter. Those can really be a pain in you don't have one. So take the time solo-ing 
 until you get the hang of planes or you'll just kill you entire squad in one plane crash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeguy220022
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2005 11:15 am PT
Review:  I love this game! One of my favorites. I spent a few weekends playing this game with a friends. 
 I mean all weekend. Sound great right... NO! It is the most unstable game I have ever played. Its 
 like the beta for the final copy. A game should be put out when it is ready not just to get it 
 out on time. I do not regret buying this game though. In fact if i could go back i would buy it 
 again. I ended up buying the sequel: BF2 special forces. Read that review if you want to know about 
 the follow up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irvine78
Rating: 5.4
Date: Dec 24, 2005 3:41 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, don't get me wrong. While it was working I got within a few rounds of making 
 Lance Corporal. I was a pretty good sniper, if I may say so myself. I also got pretty well adjusted 
 to playing as a support soldier. The people are (Generally) mentally sound and competent. My PC 
 ran the game very well. It was a very good experience.
  
  Then I went on a vacation, and returned to find new patches available. So I download these patches, 
 and then when I try to log on, I receive "The server has refused the connection". Repeat this six 
 or seven times. I check to see if a Firewall has magic-ed itself on, and none had. So I look on 
 EA, DICE, and Gamespy's websites for solutions to this problem and get nothing. So I ask around 
 in the forum for this game and get nothing. Then today I noticed that my privacy setting on Internet 
 Explorer was on medium, so I switched it to low. Now it should work, right?
  
  Not only does it still not work, but now it crashes even before I get to see the name of the company 
 that is screwing me over right now. EA Games... Challenge everything. I challenge the bastards at 
 Electronic Arts to make me purchase another game published by that company. I am sure the solution 
 to this problem is a simple one, but they aren't willing to help somebody who dished out $50 to 
 play their game and advertise for them. Intercourse EA. If anybody is having similar problems, 
 I urge you to also boycott the company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: techman24
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 24, 2005 12:23 am PT
Review:  This game is great first of all but it requiers a very good video card to run and unless you have 
 $120-$200 stashed some you better use it. 
  
  Excellent multiplayer. 
  
  There is a few bugs but they will most likely be rid of in patches. The stock maps do get boring 
 after a while, so be shure to download moded maps.
  
  Be shure to get a mic (trust me, unless you what to be typing all the time you had better get one, 
 plus its easier to communicate with your team ) . 
  
  PLEASE, PLEASE don't buy it if you don't have a good Internet connection, so you don't ruin the 
 fun for others. 
  
  There is few new and cool features to this game that other BF games do not have, the squad system, 
 ranks, destroyable satictic points ( i. e- bridges, artillery, high vantage points ) , commander 
 position-from here you issue orders and artillery bombardment as well as recon drones.
  
  Over all if you like tactical shooters get it, because its worth it.=) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battousai188
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 23, 2005 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Wow is all I can say. This game has everything in it anyone could want in an FPS. Superb graphics, 
 crazy accurate sound effects, awesome physics, large vibrant environments to fight in, unique rank 
 and award system. The game also is very versitile as in will work on most modest systems at pretty 
 decent capabilities, but if you have a beefy system you will see how much greater the game gets. 
 Though mainly focused on online play it would have been nice to have some sort of campaign mode 
 or if internet is not available able to choose more than 16 bots for a map. OVerall this is a must 
 have for anyone who likes FPSs and action games you wont regret it, 50.00 bucks and free online 
 play is a bargin if you ask me on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: traumahawk_2003
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 23, 2005 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Well I have played this game for a week now and I think this game sucks more than a Kirby vacuum 
 player. Let me start with loading the game, loads easy enough after, then add your email for registering 
 about 3 times (it feels like) just to play the game. After loading, go and get the patches that 
 make it run half-a**ed anyways. Oh and that's after you have to re-install it to get it to run, 
 and re-do the patch.
  Next: single player. Ok so you have to go to multiplayer to set up your profile, and enter you 
 email etc. again, to start playing. When you have done all this (Hours invested already, hope it's 
 fun) , you can start to play in single player mode. Getting around and configuring the game controls 
 is an experiiment in futility, and when you do finally get everything where you want, the people 
 move so slowly it makes you wish for certain death. Playing on the maps is ok but they are average 
 at best with less than decent graphics. (see unreal 2004 graphics) . Also the views from the vehicles 
 flat out suck all together, not easy to aim and drive without sitting in the cockpit and then below 
 average at best.
  Next: Multiplayer. Good Luck even trying. Lag, shoot them 100x and they kill you with 1 shot, difficult 
 even connecting etc, etc, etc. I won't swear but this game sucks ****.
  
  Overall a huge waste of time. Loading and connecting absolutely horrible time frame, graphics average 
 at best, speed of game. ughhh I could go on but unlike this crappy game, I won't waste your time. 
 DO NOT BUY, send me an e-mail i'll sell you mine for $20, no crap.
  
  Oh and don't think it's my system, I have a machine made for gaming that is even water cooled to 
 keep up with the carnage. I wish I could give it a negative #.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedHotMustang
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 8:34 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for soo long singe June and look here in December im still addicted 
 and a whole lot better too! I play the demo alot but it is just as fun. The demo includes:
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  - Gulf of oman map
  -all weapons (locked/unlocked)
  -F-35B/SU-34/MI-21
  -AH-1Z/MI-18
  -cars/dune buggys (fast as hell) /tanks/APC's/boats/Anti Air guns mounted on every base on the map (big 
 dady of em all is: USS ESSEX which is a AA gun mounted on the Air Carier of the USMC)
  The teams are :USMC and MEC 
  USMC: United Staes Marine Corps
  MEC: Middle Eastern Coalation
 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Full Game
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Just to name 5 or 6 maps out of the heck kows how many...
  
  Gulf of oman (CHANGED 2 black hawks instead of 1, 3 artillery guns instead of 2 for the USMC a 
 troop carier and 3 artillery guns for the MEC)
  Dragon valley
  Daquing Oil Fields 
  Fu Se Pass
  Opperation Clean sweep *** my favourite map (i pown in this map) =)
  and 
  Strike 
 at Karakand 
  
  The servers are ranked and so on you can level up your rank in the army, you start as a private.
 
  
  All in all this is just about the best game you can buy!!
  
  TECH INFO
  ----------------
  1.5 GB of ram 
  Radeon 9700PRO+
  Nvidia 6600GT
  Pentium 4 2.4 GHZ +
 
  Windows XP
  Speakers Logitech x-530 (5.1 is the best you can get )
  comfortable keyboard and MX-518 gaming mouse
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  My Gaming PC
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Dell 4600i 1800 
 GB of ram
  ATi Radeon 9700 (off ebay)
  Dell Keyboard/Dell mouse
  **** 6$ speakers
  Stereo headphones
  Hewitt Rand Monitor
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  My Settings
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  1024x728 85HZ refresh rate
  everthing on High 
  4xAA 
  100% fog distance
  EAX enabled ( 
 not reccomended for userd without soundcrard)
  Sound quality on high
  NOTE
  If you are running on a 6600GT+ and you over clock it like hell you can get in the game video options 
 "Verry High" 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchebaby2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 5:35 am PT
Review:  if i were to describe bf2 in 2 words they would have to be somewhat good.
  Although i do love playing it. It gets repetetive after a few rounds. I am a mapper and was seriously 
 disappointed that they havn't made a single player map mapping utility. It was indeed fun untill 
 te developers got lazy and decided to let major errors slip through their fingers and into the 
 gaming public. Overall this is a game worth the money as long as you have the righht video card 
 to handle it. Today more and more player mods are becoming available to the public and are being 
 taken in very nicely. If you do enjoy mods download coop mod and mercs mod. Those are my current 
 favorites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvioniall
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 2:19 am PT
Review:  Battle Field 1942 --  Good , Expansions --  Good , Battle Field Vietnam --  Not Bad , BATTLEFIELD 
 2--  PERFECT --  Why? well 1st of all the people looks at the marvelluos graphics this game has 
 ... and battlefield 2 is basicly on Multiplayer and it owns espiacelly game rankings!! You can 
 rank in rank modes like -- Private , 1st class private lance cpl etc.. and there are the rankings 
 from all the players! JUST TRY THE GAME! IT's DAMN WORTH IT IF YOU'RE A 1ST PERSON SHOOTER!! :P 
 TRY BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 
 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY 
 BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 
 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY 
 BATTLEFIELD 2! TRY BATTLEFIELD 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamemasta456456
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 6:30 pm PT
Review:  In Battlefield 2, it is basically the same concept as the original battlefield games, but with 
 more, uhh.. cool stuff. This is indeed the best in its series. The new kits are cool. and the fact 
 that if u get shot and u die a medic can use a thing that heals u. Anyways..
  
  Pros
  + There is new kits and weapons
  +The vehicles are awesome
  +The maps are very detailed
  
 +Perfect graphics
  +The new commands (u can call 4 artillary, call 4 supplies, etc) in order to do those, u need to 
 be the commander, which u nominate urself 4.
  +You can make your own squad
  
  Cons
  -The same concept as 1942 and vietnam (nothing new for the gameplay)
  -The helicopter controls 
 are very touchy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheChickenBoo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2005 4:10 pm PT
Review:  The game is superb. The few problems are just balncing issues like a heavy focus on vehicle combat, 
 and infantry having little role in the game. The game really needs some sort of anti-air kit plus 
 the shoulder fired rocket that come with the anti-tank kit needs a damage increase of about 2x 
 and artillery respawn should be 3x longer. The commander of the game should have the "scan" ability 
 removed all together. The award and rank system is amazingly superb, I have just fallen in love 
 with the awards. If you are looking towards buying this game, you need to know that this is not 
 a a tactical shooter but instead more of a first person shooter, because squad combat tends not 
 to work out as well as it's hyped up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyshadow
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 22, 2005 1:27 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for a game that has variety, difficulty, online-play and absolutely crazy battles, 
 get Battlefield 2! To start it has somthing for everybody. Don't like being in the heat of the 
 fight? Fine, just hop into a hellicopter and fly over the battle giving support. Or tear up the 
 skies in a jet fighter. It don't matter. As well the online play is incredible! There is nothing 
 like being on the side-lines of and artillery strike, being shot at, shooting at people and then 
 looking up to see a dog-fight in the sky!!! Though there can be some very skilled players online 
 you will always have fun no matter what. If online play isn't your thing you may be insane but 
 the game naturally also has a single-player feature which is quite fun when one considers the revolutionary 
 A. I. in the game. But expect long-loading times, possible lag and crasing issues and be prepared 
 to download patches for online play. The requirements are fairly high for this game as well. But 
 these are pathetic issues compared to the greatness of the game as a whole.
  Keep an Open Eye!
  ,Jake da Snake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sveintore111
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 12:50 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a great game, and if you like the Battlefield series then its also a good chance 
 that you'll like Battlefield 2:-)
  
  The biggest improvements are that its now possible to have a commander on each team and the other 
 players can form up in squads with up to 6 players on each squad.
  
  Each squad also have 1 squad leader that communicates with the commander and send the order on 
 to the squad members
  The squad members can also respawn on theyr squadleaders so its usualy a good idea to stay by your 
 leader and try to help him stay alive.
  
  All of these things leads to more teamwork and theres nothing more fun than playing a good game 
 with a squad that cooperates well.
  
  In Battlefield 2 you also recieve Global scores for killing enemies, capturing flag, healing teammates 
 and so on, and when you recieve a certain rank you will be able to pick 1 unlock for 1 class forexample 
 medic and when you unlock a kit you will recieve a better weapon 
  
  The higher rank you have you also have better chance of becomming commander when you apply for 
 it because its the highest rank that gets elected.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chingo360
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 21, 2005 4:59 pm PT
Review:  All in all, it is a great game, the problem is that there are only a few maps so there is the chance 
 that you will get bored easily. Graphics are Superb. I still like BF 1942 Better though. I advise 
 you to get many mods from the internet though since there are really no updates. Also, it would 
 have been better if there were more than just the Middle Eastern Guys and the Chinese, after awhile 
 it gets sort of redundant. Sound is also fairly good, just on machine gun fire it will hurt your 
 ears. It is an ok value, still wouldn't pay $39 for it though. It isn't that great but its fairly 
 good.
  
  www. chingo360. invisionplus. net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobby555
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:18 pm PT
Review:  My favourite game in my games collection. I personally have had no problems with the game so far, 
 except for a minor problem with the ranking system not giving me the appropriate rank. But that 
 was solved with just a couple of letters to the help board at EA and my rank was boosted to what 
 it should have been for a while. 
  
  Great game lots of variety and memorable moments on the multiplayer servers, definately plan on 
 getting special forces expansion. Some tech. problems for other players but hey, that's what you 
 get when your computer can't take the newest in videogame technollogy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frenktastic
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2005 10:48 am PT
Review:  this game really kicks ass!!! you need a good computer though
  if you like FPS then buy this game!!!! its even better then BF1942
  BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY 
 IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY 
 IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY 
 IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY 
 IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT, or don't, BUY 
 IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT just BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY 
 IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jondavisx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 20, 2005 8:52 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is by far one of the greatest video game experiences in my entire
  life. If you enjoy online multi player shooters, BF2 will quickly become the game that gets you 
 in trouble for staying up to late as well as offending others because you don't want to take the 
 time to shower, for that would be time lost on the battlefield and your team needs you...
  
  While I'm sure that most of you won't let BF2 deprive you of your desire to take a shower I'm 
 sure there are some out there that take gaming to that extreme, and I'm sure that you will never 
 be able to convince your Mom, girlfriend, or wife that gaming is more important than everything 
 else in life because it is a sport. With all that BS said and off my chest. Battlefield 2 offers 
 loads of action and excitement. You will find yourself parachuting off buildings and out off helicopters 
 and jets. As well as manning tanks, Jeeps, dune buggies, hummers, em-placed machine guns, and AA 
 guns.
  You will be able to choose from 7 different classes of soldiers which range from Sniper to Anti-tank. 
 You will find yourself fighting your way to capture territories represented by flags, which your 
 team will be able to spawn from after capping the flag. So, if you have not played BF2 yet go download 
 the demo, I bet you'll love it.
  
  Mike
  P4 3.4GHZ, 250GB HD, 1.5GB Ram, ATI X850XT, 19" Flat screen 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Floppy_Hunter
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2005 8:03 am PT
Review:  In the years i have spent gaming, i have played just about every first person shooter possible. 
 My favorite of all time being Call Of Duty 2.
  
  Battlefield 2 is a very revolutionary game, and stands out for its amazing graphics and for its 
 great sound. Battlefield 2 is very great multiplayer for its ranking system and gameplay, but still 
 lacks the single play like the past battleield series.
  Battlefield 2 has the nicest graphics there is, with super fine edges, and picture perfect vechiles 
 and guns. But will it run on your computer?
  At first battelfield 2 was very buggy, and did not run well unless you had a greatly specified 
 computer. This changed when patches started to be realised like on most games, the gameplay got 
 smoother, and graphics could be put onto higher settings instead of down. But is it still as good 
 as people say it is?
  
  Personally, battlefield 2 is a great game, for its multiplayer ranking system and for its superb 
 graphics. But to be honest, dont get the game if you havent got a very good specified computer.
 
  To run the game fairly decently you need a -
  Intel proccessor 2.6ghz (or AMD equivalent)
  At least 768mb of ram.
  And at least a middle range graphics card (being - nvdiea 6600 or a radion 
 9600)
  
  If you would like to play the game in all full (what people want) You need a awsome computer, being 
 -
  Intel proccessor 3.2ghz (or again AMD equivalent)
  1536mb of ram.
  And a top of the range graphics card (being - nvidea 7800 or a radio x800 pro) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXrebel666Xx
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 7, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  Great game, however the game was let down by a series of patches.
  
  Solid game play that i would recoment for anyone looking forward to a solid online experience.
 
  
  Expecially now that EA are done with the patches on a solid note.
  
  Another seedy thing is that the best maps are the later released downloadable maps that came with 
 patches.
  
  Never the less a fun game that could have been even better.
  
  Another noticeable issue is the way of which EA/ dice code and the optimization used, if any.
 
  
  A fairly decent rig will run this game barely on low whilst you can achieve much better graphics 
 on quake 4 and half life 2 whilst getting better frames per second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruckinnumber2
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Looking for an excellent multiplayer online game? Here it is. Squad based combat, classes of fighters, 
 complete immersion, great vehicles and stationary weapons ... this game has it all. 
  
  The only thing I can fault this game for is the regular online jerks that you will run into from 
 time to time ... but that's not really EA's fault at all. If you haven't bought this game go do 
 so. Great to pick up and play whenever you're bored or have some time to kill.
  
  The graphics are awe inspiring, the sound is as realistic as I've seen, and the gameplay is great. 
 Each kit provides the player with some purpose on his team. From the medic who is the battlefield 
 healer to the lone sniper picking off foes from a distance to the assault warrior in the thick 
 of combat; everyone has a job. 
  
  A great game to play with friends too, as squad based combat is a must. A friends list would have 
 been nice, but it's not hard to find your buddies by going to the same server. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 700652948163
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2005 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is outstanding the game play the graphics all top quality. But does like a high-end computer 
 with a good graphics card and the rest not going into that. Game play well its how you want to 
 play all out action and full on in your face combat, or standing your ground and defending one 
 area. But if stealths your thing then yes you guess it you can do that to. The game brings the 
 intensity and excitement of Battlefield 1942 into the modern era with enhanced team play and the 
 latest, most technologically advanced vehicles and weapons systems available to man. Enhanced team 
 play features allow players to enter the action on the front lines as part of a formal squad, or 
 work behind the scenes in Commander Mode to direct the strategic assaults of their teammates. Soldier 
 kits now affect vehicles that players use on the battlefield. For instance, the medic kit can transform 
 a vehicle into a mobile aid station and the special ops kit can render aircraft undetectable to 
 enemy radar. Choose to battle as U. S., Chinese, or Middle East Coalition troops, each with their 
 own unique arsenals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: partydude1085
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:59 pm PT
Review:  this game is great,
  it focuses so much on the urban combat so its less of run and kill 2 ppl before u get killed
 
  now u really need to take cover and play it a little slower than bf 1942
  the only problem with it is that if you dont have the recommended system preferences than your 
 graphics are as good as an N64. But if you have a good sstem with the recommended preferences (which 
 are pretty darn high and expensive) than you will be seeing some of the best graphics ever for 
 the PC
  the soldier kits are kool and u can choose the size of your environments from the size of a football 
 field to the grand canyon.
  there are custom maps and the rank system works nicely,
  so overall my only complaint is that if you dont have an excellent system than u lose a lot of 
 graphical magnificance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaymaster007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2005 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is intreging with some of it's intense battle sequences. The problem with the game is 
 there is way too many bugs. If you can't stand getting punshed for an accident teamkill, you must 
 not play this game. EA can do something about the TEAMKILL system, but they are way too stupid 
 to do anything about it. Laying Claymores will instantly get you a teamkill. The teamkilling brings 
 the games fun down so much. So sad.
  
  Intensity in this game is very unique and fun. Using vehicles and planes are very fun, but be aware 
 of the targeting system. One second your killing, the next you are being killed. Don't think this 
 game is crap, it is just a little destructive and repetitive with all the killing and stuff. before 
 you buy this game, play the demo. See how it fits you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 18, 2005 11:14 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 1942 changed the landscape of online action games as we knew it. The "go anywhere, 
 do anything" concept that had been so popular in RPGs made for an almost entirely open-ended experience 
 in 1942, as attackers could fly in with bombers, advance with tanks, or take to the streets with 
 infantry, in order to secure spawn points across immense maps.
  
  Unlike the original, Battlefield 2 is set in modern day, or at least the very near future. The 
 equipment, vehicles and weapons used in the game are most definitely variations on what's out in 
 the field right now. Although some of the brand names might be missing, anyone who knows anything 
 about modern-day warfare will recognize Bradley tanks and Blackhawk helicopters no problem. But 
 it's not just the Americans in this fight. The game also features two other armies, the PLA (the 
 People's Liberation Army of China) , and the MEC (the Middle Eastern Coalition) , each with its own 
 set of vehicles and weapons.
  
  The basic Battlefield gameplay mechanics remain in BF2. There are spawn points spread about the 
 map and you must hold these points long enough to "capture" them, thereby allowing your side to 
 spawn there and take a stronger hold of the map. To aid you in your conquest, you'll find vehicles 
 placed throughout the map, from the aforementioned tanks to the more liberally placed Humvees. 
 Battleships and airfields also play host to the airborne assault vehicles, like fighter jets and 
 helicopters, so it's not often you'll be without a ride.
  
  The kit system returns as well, allowing players to spawn as different classes, each with their 
 own skills and weaknesses. The assault class, for example, is ideal against infantry, what with 
 their body armor, high powered assault rifle and grenade launcher. Up against tanks and planes, 
 however, the assault class is almost entirely useless. On the flip side, the engineer, with its 
 anti-armor land mines and vehicle-fixing wrench is ideal for support, but since he only has a shotgun, 
 any infantry with range will tear him apart. The most interesting changes made to the class system 
 were in an effort to make some of the kits more viable in battle. The medic class, for example, 
 has the only means to heal soldiers in combat (since the ridiculous healing caches from the first 
 game are out in BF2) . The medic also carries a semi-powerful rifle, making him a worthy foe in 
 battle. The best, however, are his defibrillation paddles, which can bring guys back from the dead. 
 In all, there are no "pointless" classes in BF2. Everyone has his or her role to play.
  
  And speaking of roles, Battlefield 2 places a lot of importance on doing your part in battle. In 
 the first game, you were rewarded for kills or taking spawn points. In BF2, there are plenty more 
 ways to get acknowledged. Fixing tanks as an engineer, giving out ammo with the support kit, bringing 
 guys back from the dead as a medic, these all earn you points. And points, in turn, earn you ranks. 
 See, there are special Ranked Servers online that are specifically designed to track your status 
 in games. Stats like accuracy, kill-to-death ratio and kit preference are all logged when you play 
 on one of these servers. Your points are also tracked, and when you hit a certain amount of points 
 you go up in rank. Going up in rank not only gives you a new icon next to your name, but it also 
 unlocks new weapons every once in a while. These aren't uber powerful, so you'll still be on a 
 level playing field against those with the standard gear, but at least they're a nice change of 
 pace, and a nice reason to keep coming back.
  
  The other big addition to the Battlefield franchise is the Commander mode, which allows one person 
 to give orders to their entire team. These orders show up as waypoints on the mini-map, and you 
 can choose to ignore or accept them. While having a dunce of a commander isn't much fun, a highly 
 organized grognard can be a real asset on the battlefield. Since the Commander has an overhead 
 view of the entire map, complete with enemy positions, they've got the best idea as to where to 
 send troops. We were in a battle where the Chinese had worked out tickets down below 20, and we 
 were forced to play defense to keep our remaining points. Thanks to the Commander, who sent us 
 in every time an aggressive force made its way to our flags, we were able to hold on and take the 
 win. The commander also has the ability to call in air strikes and supply drops, making him even 
 more valuable to the team. That's the sort of coordination that just wasn't possible in the first 
 game.
  
  For those that have a top-of-the-line setup, Battlefield 2's graphics are gorgeous, with dynamic 
 lighting, physics, high definition textures and incredible effects. Surround sound completes the 
 illusion, as you'll feel utterly enveloped by the sounds of war. Mortar rounds going off around 
 you or machine gun fire rattling past you are definite aural treats.
  
  Long story short, Battlefield 2 is a great game. It's not quite the revolution that we were expecting 
 in terms of gameplay, but the improvements are just enough to keep us coming back each night for 
 another handful of rounds. Just do yourself a favor and download the demo before you start plopping 
 down 50 bucks. The game is not nearly as much fun if you can't get it running. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackie05
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2005 8:13 am PT
Review:  If you want a game that has great action in it this is the one for you with online or without it 
 you still have your self a amazing game to me i like the chinese and also the united states but 
 another great chocie is fear but battlefield is the one if your looking for action you just cant 
 stop playing it is like your being hitmatized into the game and theres another game you could get 
 is special forces its not really a real game its a expansion pack but its still a heck of a game. 
 Trust me i got the game for an ealrly christmas present and you cant play the game without an video 
 card and a super computer like a pineyum 4 that should do the trick and a Agp slot for the video 
 card i hope i gave you enough information about the all mighty battlefield2 get it for it will 
 be a great christmas if you have a super camputer Ha Ha HA HA Bu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brettlee01
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 8:30 pm PT
Review:  THE GAME WAS PERFECT THE GRAPHICS ARE AMAZING AND GAME PLAY IS SUPERB.
  it is a simple lan game marked by a great artificial intelligence. though 
  the system requirements 
 are very steep the multi player is very addictive.
  the BOTs are very cunning and think like humans. this provide a great 
  gameplay with bots like 
 a multi player in single player game. 
  
  Thrilling online gameplay that's revolutionary at times; built-in voice support is the next best 
 thing to xbox live; the new squad and commander functions elevate the gameplay; beautiful graphics 
 and insane sound effects immerse you; the best military action game yet made. 
  
  Contrary to its name, Battlefield 2 is actually the third game in the Battlefield series, and, 
 on the surface, it sticks closely to the formula established in the previous two games. In it, 
 two teams of up to 32 players each battle it out for supremacy on huge virtual battlefields, taking 
 the fight to one another on foot, in a vehicle, on sea, and in the air. This time around, though, 
 you'll have the opportunity to take modern weapons and equipment into the fray, as the game is 
 based in a near-future, hypothetical conflict that pits the forces of the United States, China, 
 and the fictional Middle Eastern Coalition in mortal combat with one another. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hampton2003
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 10:39 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is the greatest fps online... in my oppion. The games 3 factions: the US, Chinese, 
 and MEC (middle eastern colition) are very different from each other in respect to equipment and 
 starting battlefield positions (which never change) . Kits are basically a class of weapon and gear 
 that comes with it. You cant costomize kits, but each one offers uniqeness and strategy. For example 
 the sniper kit comes with a (you guessed it) sniper rifle, silenced pistol, grenades, and clamores (dentonated 
 by friend or foe moving in front of them) . Now each faction has the same weapon kits but the weapons 
 in those kits are different depending on the side you choose. For example the US assualt kit will 
 give you a m16 with a m203 grenade luacher attached, but a chinese assualt kit would give you an 
 ak47 with a grenade luancher attached. These kits are overall the same but certain weapons have 
 different strength, the m16 isn't as strong as the ak47 but its more acurate, etc. So some sides 
 will have better kit variation than others but its all very balanced. Here is all the kits: special 
 forces, sniper, assualt, engineer, support, anti-tank, medic. And all of these kits have universal 
 unlocks (meaning all three factions get the same weapon unlock) , for example the assualt kit unlock 
 is the g3, a rifle without a grenade luancher attached, but its alot more powerfull, so the chinese, 
 US, and Mec and get to use these universal unlocks as a secondary option in case you dont like 
 the standard weapon that comes with that sides kit, although to unlock these weapons you need to 
 earn pts by playing online and getting kills etc. and once you get promoted then they give you 
 the option of unlocking one weapon from any kit class. For you first weapon unlock id go for the 
 special forces unlcok due too its high acuracy and good damage, its a good infantry killer at any 
 range (solid first choice) . Along with the new special force expansion pack just released, some 
 of the new weapons found only in the expansion are now aviable as universal unlocks for this original 
 game, but you have to unlock the first weapons in the line up before you can unlock the expansion 
 pack gun. (ie to unlock the assualt kit gun that comes from the expansion pack you first need to 
 unlock the g3 and then you can unlock to other one, which by the way is the only gun that also 
 comes with flashbang grenades!!)
  Vehicles range from fast transports to apc's to tanks. As well as flying types such as transport 
 helicopters, attack helicopters, and different purpose jets (fighters, bombers, etc.) The ground 
 vehicles control great and are a force on the battlefield (although they never dominate the battlefield) , 
 but the flying vehicles controls are something to get used to, especially jets which can be difficult 
 to master. But while i'm online i've witnessed some jet pilots who are the best around, they rarely 
 miss on bombing runs, and they almost never get blown out of the sky. 
  Maps vary from open fields with some buildings here and there, too cities with many open windows 
 for snipers as well as roof tops. And its the city levels that are most popular ("strike at karkland" 
 we are looking at you!) . 
  Now lets talk about the command sys. You can join an already created sqd or you can create you 
 own squad and invite other players to join. Next there is the commander which at the begining of 
 each match you can apply to be commander but the highest ranking player who applied will get the 
 position. Commanders can scan the battlefield for enemies, use artillery on the enemy, locate bad 
 guys on your radar through uav scan, and drop supply crates to help you out if your low on health 
 or ammo. Sqd leaders can talk via voice chat (through a mic) to the commander and to his sqd members, 
 the commander can only talk to sqd leaders, and the sqd members can only talk to people in their 
 sqd and to their sqd leader. This prevents unorganized chat, so everything is clearly understood. 
 
  Well thats the basics of the game (no, i wont explain everything to you) , you'll have to buy the 
 game to figure the rest out (which is not alot left to learn since i gave you alot) . Anyway, peace 
 out gamers, i gonna go play battlefield 2 now (i'm not joking) . Look my player name up: SPARTAN2316
 
  
  I look foward to seeing you on the battlefield....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soulvase
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2005 10:03 am PT
Review:  When playing this game I thought to myself "Wow, this game has changed a lot!!!" ( as in tactics, 
 things to do, weapons, etc) . The graphic in this game is amazing and the sound is good too. The 
 gameplay is unbelievable. Once someone starts to play this game they like never stop playing until 
 they have to eat or go to sleep. This game is very addicting. Sometimes it gets you very mad, when 
 your just about to get a rank up or just about to get this really hard metal or award and all of 
 a sudden someone shoots you and you die and the round ends. I mean when that happened I started 
 screaming! But besides all of those minor things, this game has one of the best multiplayer of 
 all other games. I would sooo recommend to all who have a great graphic card and a great computer 
 to go out and buy this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l989d
Rating: 4.4
Date: Dec 16, 2005 9:46 pm PT
Review:  it's repetitive buggy gameplay just doesn't cut it. bf2 sets out with some pretty cool ideas (like 
 squads and special forces ex.) but none of these just really work together. In conclusion... IT"S 
 JUST NOT FUN
  unless your one of the "i just like shooting things" type
  if you do like shooter for the sake of being a shooter.... than this would be an exceptable game
 
  
  i have yet to see a true competitor to counter strike soure (which is much cheaper)
  
  o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aziansniper
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 9:32 pm PT
Review:  An amazing game! One of the best games ever made so far! Good gameplay and how it's made but it 
 could use a little more improvement. Overall i think this is one of the best made game ever. Awesome 
 weapon and vehicles. Feels like your in actual war. This game will keep you playing!!! Buy this 
 game and you won't regret it! Awesome multiplayer features too. I highly recommended this game 
 to people who are choosing what game to buy or if they don't know what game to buy. If you want 
 something addicting and just 100% fun! this is the game for you!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex1029
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2005 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I don't play many multiplayer games, but I must say that Battlefield 2 is the hottest game that 
 I've ever played online. The graphics and gameplay are superb. The whole concept of having the 
 option of being a commander, or being a member of squad and all the other options you have in the 
 game makes the gameplay awesome. Even if you don't play it online, the single player mode still 
 poses a challenge to even the most seasoned gamer. I give this game my best rating. Again, this 
 game is f-ing sweet. Even if you don't like military games, this will suck you in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: for_the_horde
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2005 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2, the sequel to Battlefield 1, obviously. It has come along way.
  The graphics are the best of any game you can buy for any console (including xbox360) They are almost 
 photo realistic. 
  The multiplayer is just outstanding! Battlefield 2 has remarkable online play. You can join a server 
 and just play an all out battle with loads of different ranks and positions. It is just like single 
 player mode, except for different maps and the Ai are online players.
  The only downside to Battlefield 2 is the requirements are harsh. Also, you can only unlock the 
 best weapons online which is ultra hard anyway. Because they are only on ranked servers. There 
 is only one and it is always full. All in all, I think anyone who owns a PC should buy Battlefield 
 2. This game rules and It is worth every penny to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evolution_remix
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 16, 2005 10:37 am PT
Review:  Nice game..... but it needs a very good computer to work good... but I give id a 10....:) .. good 
 game... but needs a upgrade ... so it can becom better.... the creators showld try to do a review 
 to the game making it work on not so good computers.... for example you need a verry goo processor 
 for it t play at maximum quality... an a lot of RAMs... but for thowse who can afford a good computer 
 it will do just fine...
  You learn to lay the game very fast .. because it is similar to other first-person games...
  The 
 great thing in the game is that yoy can drive al kind's of vehicules and helicopters.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terrancemulloy
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:53 pm PT
Review:  
  The most annoying thing about EA and BF2 is not the system crashes, the million patches you need 
 to install, then reinstall again so the game works, the almost non-existent EA customer support, 
 the sketchy in-game lag, the very bad server lag issues, the fact that you can unload a full clip 
 onto someone's head only to be owned by their 1 shot... it's not any of these things... it's the 
 fact that if this game was properly executed and actually finished it could have be the best online 
 war / shooter game ever!
  
  For a start atually getting onto a server and finding a game is a chore in itself (that is assuming 
 you can actually login to your account) I estimated that the time it takes me to actually begin 
 playing on a server is between 6-10 mins. And believe me, I have a pretty beefy system and high 
 speed cable internet with a Game Fuel Router, so it's definately something on EA's behalf, because 
 to log onto a Steam or Valve game like Day Of Defeat or CS: Source sees me kneep deep in action 
 under 3 mins - from the time I launch the Steam desktop icon.
  
  The concept of BF2 is one many gamers including myself love the idea of - modern day warfare that 
 loosley represents the current middle east turmoil and also presents a Chinese and US relations 
 problem that's already starting to bristle in the real world of foreign relations. 
  
  The problem is that EA have released not 1 but 2 games that don't even work with each other properly. 
 Specail Forces requires you to download a 1.12 patch then reinstall that same patch after the game 
 install, otherwise EA warns of frequent desktop crashes. Whoever is doing "quality assurance" and 
 debugging at EA headquarters needs to be fired. Because somewhere down the chain of command some 
 developer is shown bad judgement, laziness or has just been lying his / her ass off to EA executives 
 - because this game is NOT finished!!!!
  
  What have we done (except hand over over our hard earned cash) to deserve this? EA almost punish 
 the consumer for buying this game. They present us with a game that almost requires a University 
 degree in computer programming just to work the bloody thing. And if thats not bad enough you need 
 to login at least twice before the Account Server accepts your account details.
  
  And just to top things off - before you rush out and buy this game, jump onto some of the gaming 
 and BF2 forums and read the horror stories many people are experiencing, like being booted off 
 for TK'ing when you haven't done a single TK at all.... catching my drift?
  
  Which leads me to waepons balancing - well should I say lack of - because there is none. Running 
 around in BF2 is more awkward and physically demanding then it would be for a real-life combat 
 marine over in Iraq. I though they designed these weapons and uniforms to make the soilder comfortable 
 in the heat of battle? Let me tell you that even getting a good shot off in BF2 comes down to pure 
 flukage. If you can actually kill someone then you deserve to be promoted. The woeful in-game lag 
 is so bad that it's not uncommon to unload an entire clip onto some only for them to fire one shot 
 at you and kill you in the process. Weapons balance is pityful to say the least and a far cry from 
 the smooth balance you get from DOD or CSS.
  
  Then theres the whole TK thing. Sometimes in the heat of battle you can accidently nade someone 
 or kill a team mate. Which gives all the smart ass pre-teenage little sjits the ability to get 
 you kicked from a server for an accident. In fact in some instances you can get booted off a server 
 for absolutely no reason at all. Because BF2 is so buggy and so sensitive to packet loss, it's 
 not uncommon for you to be playing and then all of a sudden find yourself back at the server browser, 
 with an error message saying "you've been kicked for excessive team killing" WTF?
  
  My final point (believe me I could go on) brings me to probably the most embarrassing and appauling 
 in-game browser in the history of video games. The default browser in BF2 is so laggy it can actually 
 cause you to do a hard reset of your computer. There is now a favorites option that has just recently 
 been added, but all these patches still has not adressed the problem and un-friendly GUI issues 
 for the BF2 browser. Unlike Steam you can change video settings and various options without having 
 to dissconnect from the game you're playing. Plus the ease of use with Steams in-game GUI is by 
 far light years ahead of anything EA has tried to impliment. 
  
  I can only hope with recent announcment of EA now moving into the arena of digital game distrubution 
 that they create some thing that not only works, but is user friendly and easy to use. Judging 
 from their effort with BF2 that may turn out to be nothing more than wishful thinking.
  
  I cannot recommend this game to anyone. it's so unusable it's not funny. I feel I've been ripped 
 off and have not recieved my value for money at all. Plus with a lot of people now hinting that 
 EA payed for "good reviews" to all the top publishing companies that produce the various gaming 
 magazines, you can see why BF2 is starting to crumble as a worthy title. Judging from online BF2 
 servers you can see that even die hard BF2 fans are already over BF2: Special Forces and going 
 back to the original game.
  
  If you really want a solid, reliable and relitively bug free online shooter look at Counter Strike: 
 Source among others... It's got teram based dynamics that don't require you to nessecarilly be part 
 of a team, it's got better physics and animations and much better and more realistic action.
  
  But CSS is not the only one, there's plenty of worthy titles out there on the market... games 
 that offer the same intensity and fun you're looking for....
  
  oh and most of them, if not all of them are actually finished!
  
  Shame on you EA... shame! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: exclusiveburner
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 15, 2005 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Idk y this game got such good reviews... It's not a very good game at all. Gameplay is soo repetitive 
 and boring capturing flags for sum reason is so outdated and should stay outdated. I dont know 
 why people like this or think its fun it really isnt. 
  
  Single player is basically same as multiplayer and yet again very boring.. kill people and take 
 there spawn... not much to it.
  
  The guns are great in this game but still could use improvement. Most people play this for the 
 online play and i gotta say I'd rather turn on my playstation and put in socom before playing this 
 boring game.
  
  Graphics are good but explosions look terrible.. and look better on PS2 or Xbox's Battlefield.
 
  
  The vehicles are sum what the better part of the game along with sniping but everything else is 
 just so lame and the graphics dont make up for the gameplay.
  
  My Computer is As Follows
  
  Amd Athlon 3200+
  2.2 Ghz
  128MB XFX 6800
  1.5 Gigs Ram
 
  (Not the best computer in the world but I can play games like Quake/FEAR/COD2 all on high/medium 
 settings)
  
  the repetitiveness in this game makes me want to quit after 1 game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjolnir334
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 14, 2005 7:28 pm PT
Review:  The original Battlefield seemed like such a unique idea. By having huge maps and vehicles it felt 
 like a real war. It also featured a great class system that created a great team game and forced 
 you to work as a team instead of having one player dominate the game. Battlefield 2 learns from 
 all of it mistakes and even adds some new features.
  
  The classes have since been reworked in order to help the team oriented game play. There are now 
 seven classes. You have a spec ops, this class features explosives and can go behind enemy lines 
 to blow up commander items, more about those later. Then you have the self explanatory sniper, 
 Next is the Assault. This is your average machine gun wielding soldier, but has the inclusion of 
 a smoke grenade and a grenade launcher. Then you got your support. These soldiers can provide ammo 
 to the troops and also feature a large machine gun in order to provide covering fire for the troops. 
 The medic has been a little reworked as they can revive players up to fifteen seconds after they 
 die. They can still heal soldiers but have the option of throwing the bag on the ground allowing 
 soldiers to pick it up when they need it. The anti-tank has finally been given a real weapon with 
 an smg. The engineer is the only class that seemed to take a hit, as they now can only repair vehicles 
 and lay land mines down. They also feature a shotgun that often seems to be useless on the larger 
 maps. In the first battlefield many people would work as a squad but people would often find it 
 hard to coordinate and could often lose track of each other. This problem was fixed by the implementation 
 of squads. This allows a squad leader to issue commands to his squad and lead them much more precisely. 
 Also the squad members can spawn on the squad leader as long as he is alive. This allows you to 
 get right into the action. One of the new features in the game was that of a commander. The commander 
 uses a map to over sea the action. He can call in artillery strikes, drop supply crates to provide 
 ammo and health, and scan for enemy troops. In order to combat a commander you can blow up his 
 equipment with c4, disabling his abilities. With a good commander the game can be elevated to a 
 new level. Also BF 2 features a new stat system. It will track all of your stats and as you gain 
 points you can earn new ranks. With these ranks bring new weapon unlocks. These unlocks are often 
 superior to the previous weapons can give you an advantage over players with out them.
  
  There are a few problems with Battlefield 2. Although you don't need a top of the line computer 
 to run it, I suggest having a fairly good computer and even have up to a 1.5 gigs of ram. This 
 will really help the load times as they are fairly long with anything under that. Another problem 
 is that the ability to enjoy the game is also based on how good of people you play with. You may 
 play with a group of guys who will work in a squad with you and you'll have some of the best times 
 in your gaming history, but if you play with a bunch of idiots. It can boil down to you trying 
 to beat off a team of well trained and coordinated players. This can result in some terrible moments 
 and you may find yourself getting angry with the game. I will also say that if your going to buy 
 this game you better have a good Internet connection, because the single player is barely worth 
 mentioning. It consists of you playing with fifteen other bots that are okay, but won't provide 
 you with anything close to the multiplayer experience.
  
  As I said before if you can play with some good guys this is by far the best team game out there, 
 and consider it one of the PC's premiere multiplayer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i9200
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 14, 2005 10:24 am PT
Review:  I found Battlefield 2 to be a very good game but lacking in certain areas. There was a lack of 
 a proper story line like in the original battlefield, and the multiplayer only has assault, Personally 
 I liked a game of the old capture the flag....
  The gameplay was overall very good with excellent graphics if you have the right graphics card. 
 The game needs quite a good machine to run a peak performance but will run with good graphics on 
 most machines. 
  The online multiplayer is excellent, espically the new online ranking which really shows you how 
 good you are.
  Overall a good game but could def be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eskouster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 12, 2005 7:58 pm PT
Review:  The menu sucks, the game sucks up all your computer's resources, it's buggy and unstable, patching 
 stinks, and load times are horrendously long.
  
  But it's still one of the best PC games ever because it's just a lot of fun to be zooming around 
 in tanks, shooting missiles at helicopters, and nailing snipers with M-16s. 
  
  All the normal problems of any multiplayer game are there: Teams don't work together, people team-kill, 
 you always die when you spawn. But when it's clicking, which is most of the time, it's an amazing 
 experience. You'll be crawling towards a control point, which anti-tank rockets whooshing towards 
 enemies vehicles, and jets flying over head. 
  
  It feels like you're part of an epic battle that you actually make a difference in. Taking out 
 that tank lumbering towards your defenses. Picking off a sniper that's killing everyone at your 
 spawn point. Defending your flag from small strike forces. 
  
  Playing with a friend or two is even better, because you can set up great squads and talk through 
 voice com. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonphoenix123
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:26 pm PT
Review:  good multiplayer
  good game
  not as good as cod2
  
  good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! 
 good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! 
 good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! 
 good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! 
 good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! 
 good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! 
 good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregorio0077
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  one of the best games ever invented. SUPERB! I downloaded the demo to see if it was good and i 
 played it for a solid couple of weeks. The multiplayer is amazing because you play with people 
 who are really good. a definate buy. The graphics are amazing and the sound is crisp and clear 
 and you can the bullets as they fall next to you. Its great how you can choose from the six different 
 kits and use things like c4 roket launchers and machine guns. The real joy is flying though. It 
 feels amazing dropping bombs out of planes and watching your foes fly 100 into the air and smash 
 back into the ground. Speaking of that EA added the ragdoll efeect which is extremely cool and 
 realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aghost69
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I think that BF2 has just right everything, i really dont think they could of done better... exept 
 for a few things... like: Huge planes for people to drop
  out of, bugger and better wepons :D.... and thats about it.
  I like all of the map selection... 
 exept that there are boundaries... wich really makes me mad, because i think that people like to 
 have total control of where to go and what to do and thats why i think there should be more vehicles 
 and lots more wepons and technolgy related wepons....
  im glad that they made it so you have unlimited parachutes, but also i tihnk it should be more 
 like real life and they only should have made you start out with one... because if you think aboutt 
 it most people ( in the war) wouldnt be able to cary around 50 parachutes, along with all of there 
 wepons.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeyson_smo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 11, 2005 12:13 pm PT
Review:  a great game awesome superb!!! great playing! good graphics etc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc 
 etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc 
 etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc 
 etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc 
 etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc 
 etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc 
 etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc 
 etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc 
 etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc 
 etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etcetc etc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -T-_-A-_-B-_-U-
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2005 11:45 am PT
Review:  its a really good game and i recommend to all the people to play this game because its a blast 
 and if you don't play it you gonna miss something . its a good action game and its fun because 
 you can walk or get in a plane or boat or tank or in a jet . That's cool and You just need to buy 
 it to have fun .
  This game is unbelievable! This game is perfect! its the games of the year and i want all of you 
 to buy it so i can play against you lol :) so don't wait and go buy it alright bye :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desertrat_90
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 11, 2005 10:42 am PT
Review:  If I remember correctly, a long time ago in PC magazines I would read articles about Battlefield 
 2 which explained how maps were 'Fully destructable.' I and many others were excited about this 
 imagining levelling our tank's sites on building after building and causing total destruction, 
 taking an enemy squad down as they are crushed by the resulting debris. However, when the game 
 finally comes out I descover that the only destructable objects in the game are pointless obstructions 
 such as fences and lamp posts. This was a total let down but the game was still brilliant fun to 
 play, throwing you into action; the outcome of which you and the players around you determine. 
 
  
  The game remains true to the battlefield forumla, offering a range of classes:  
 and anti-tank. Each of these classes specialise in a different aspect of combat and a squad containing 
 the right mixture of all of them is most effective.
  
  There are some nice additions to the game too. One of these additions is kill damage assist points 
 where you get points for doing damage to an enemy but someone else steals your kill. Another addition 
 is points for healing and giving ammo. 
  
  The new squad mode is an excellent way of encouraging teamwork and the new commander role is quite 
 fun. As commander you get to look down on the battle and use some fun little toys to aid your team 
 such as artillery, radar and supply drops. Also you can give squads orders, commend squads for 
 doing well shout at them for doing bad all at the touch of a button.
  
  When playing this game, it feels very rushed and there is an atrocious amount of bugs in it. One 
 particularly annoying bug is that the server filter system doesn't seem to want to play ball. It 
 is very sensitive and if you change one setting on it you often end up refreshing and no servers 
 are found at all. Also, the menu is very sluggish and unresponsive and can often have you pulling 
 your hair out. Lots of players have given up on this game and all the problems it has given them.
 
  
  In conclusion, this is a good tactical modern warfare experience with many faults and bugs that 
 will hopefully be corrected in further patches. Like previous generations of battlefield games 
 its lifespan will be greatly expanded with mods utilizing the engine further than the game itself. 
 The future should bring good things for Battlefield 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkswordsmen11
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 8:42 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 not only lets you set your graphic cards to the max it also lets you enjoy fast paced 
 combat online, although offline lacked any real fun this game shows its real colors when connected 
 to internet. With the new ranking system it already shows you that being the best is no long a 
 friend thing, but a world wide event. Badges, Ribbons, and Medals will test your skill and show what 
 your strong and weak at.
  
  This game is definately worth getting if your computer isn't bad and your internet isn't AOL or 
 Dial-Up. This is a great gift for anyone who likes army related games, although you won't always 
 be American it's always fun to try something new. 
  
  If your new to the game, I highly suggest don't play online yet. Take a good 10-30 minutes in single 
 player and try different kits and even commander and make sure you know how to use each weapon. 
 Also try flying helicopters and jets, so when you join you won't make yourself look foolish.
  Well anyways, on that note I highly recommend you get this game :)
  
  Hopefully you will get 
 Battlefield 2, and I'll see you on the battle field! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alewares
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 7:09 am PT
Review:  This game is an attempt of Valve to release a new hit, and I think it has worked to an extent.
 
  
  Firstly, the graphics are stunning. Turn the graphics all the way up (something your video card 
 should be able to handle if you can play Half Life 2) , and you will see the difference between 
 this and Counter Strike 1.6. Sound is great, with many customization options.
  
  However, as we get into the gameplay, things falter. The game is pretty darn easy compared to Counter-Strike 
 1.6. It takes only a little skill to get a headshot, as you can spray and pray easily. Also, 1.6 
 includes many mods that Source does not, or is not compatible at, such as "Warcraft," or "Superman." 
 Oh yeah, and surfing too, if you know what I mean.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: madkilla
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a very good game and well made. It has a few bugs in it but most of them aren't 
 that bad. The game play is very fun and fast, the graphics are outstanding in my opinion. The sound 
 quality in the game are very relastic, espicaily when bullets are flying by yur head as you bolt 
 from one wall to the next. Most of the weapons are very good detail and fair stats. The new ranking 
 system is very well built. It makes u want to work for medals and new ranks and keeps the game 
 more interesting. This is a very good game to buy in my opinion. If u have a very resently new 
 computer i would reccomend u buying this game. If u dont have the greatest computer then i wouldnt 
 reccomend it becuase this game takes a lot of new technology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireinacan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 10, 2005 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is one of the most intense and addicting games come to date. This includes all of 
 the vehicles you can use to travel and kill with. There are medics that can heal you with their 
 medipacks, special ops, snipers that can snipe from any tall building they want to. And if you 
 happen to run out of ammo, which everyone does after shooting everyone else, there are supporting 
 fire troops that have ammo packs ready, and all you have to do is call them over so you can refuel. 
 This game has awsome graphics and customizable times and actions, like spawning and friendly fire. 
 You can play as a couple different armies. Some are USMC ( United States Military Corps) , and MEC (Middle 
 Eastern Corps) . They each have different weapons, but you can play more than those two sides in 
 this aswome game! Buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vetren_999
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:21 am PT
Review:  ahhh, BattleField 2, I have never seen such a wonderful online shooter. 
  Let's talk about the graphics, beautiful, that is if your video card can support it, the wepons 
 models are fantastic, the landscapes are gorgeous and the textures are wonderful.
  The sound is something you can't live without, if you crank up the volume then firefights sound 
 real, artillery is booming, the sound is definatlly a high point in the game.
  The gameplay is addictive, tight, and just plain fun, if you stripped away the graphics and the 
 sound, the raw gameplay would still make this a good game, from riding in a boat, to dog-fighting 
 in the air, to intense firefights, it's all good.
  The ranking system is a bit picky, you can only gain points on a ranked server, but most of the 
 real funs ones are un-ranked.
  And patches, I still haven't downloaded the 1.12 patch yet because it takes an hour.
  The difficulty 
 is a bit hard, especially online, but even the single-player AI is smart enough to flank you, ambush 
 you, and use artillery against you, your team can be just as good to, but if you're commander and 
 the AI dosen't like you, they can muntiny you, wow.
  If you have a high-end PC and $50, then get this game; now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martin1990000
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2005 7:33 am PT
Review:  almost everything is good
  
  the only problem with this game is the patches and the servers
  
  it is lagging a lot and i 
 do not have a crappy computer: more than 2000kb/s broadband, AMD 2ghz, 1.5gb ram, ati sapphire 
 radeon 9800SE 128mb,
  (i can have the graphics on higest in singleplayer without lagging. maybe its something wrong with 
 my windows XP)
  
  the patching is a BIG problem many people have problems with the patcing and my problems is/was: 
 when the second or third patch was installed i cold only play the new map (wake island) ... every 
 time i tried to join other servers with other maps it stod this server only players with unmodified 
 versions to join... i really HATE that message
  
  its sad that its so many problems witch destoyes the gameplay
  
  i hate gamespy's server system 
 and i hope EA dose something with the problems 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BioHazard117
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2005 6:36 am PT
Review:  We all know that the Battlefield series just plain owns. So this is the latest installment in that 
 series. The first thing you wil notice about this game is it's graphics. Its graphics are such 
 an improvement for Vietnam. Although, the graphics are pretty it takes a hefty machine to run it 
 on good graphics (at least 1 gig memory and Geforce 6600) . BF2 now encourages teamwork using squads 
 that you can make with other players and now there is VOIP so you talk to all the others in your 
 squad. There is also a commander in BF2. The role of the commander is too use the artillery and 
 UAV (radar) effectivly to help their army win the battle. The controls in this game are solid, 
 but may take a little while getting used to (especially flying) . The vehicles in this game are 
 awesome as well, you can own 'em up in a M1A2 tank, attack choppers, jets, jeeps, etc (the usual 
 sh*t) . The biggest downside of this product is the bugs. Bugs, bugs, and more bugs. Some of these 
 include loading problems, friendly fire and team killing problems, etc. EA is indeed hard at work 
 pushing out patches that help this game become even more awesome. So, if you're already a big Battlefield 
 fan, stop reading and go get it. I also recommend this to anyone who likes FPS and action-packed 
 crazy games. You will have soo much fun with this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damicatz
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 8, 2005 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I have a widescreen LCD on my primary gaming computer. To this date, Battlefield 2 STILL does not 
 support widescreen resolutions. That means that I have to run the game at crap resolutions with 
 stretched out resolutions and interpolation. 
  
  It is beyond retarded that DICE and EA refuse to implement widescreen resolution support. Their 
 excuse is that it gives players an unfair advantage. I guess they should ban optical mouses (plural 
 form is not an error) and fast computers too. 
  
  It takes all of 2 minutes to implement the code to support widescreen but I've come to expect this 
 kind of laziness from EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'm a big time fan of the Battlefield series, and I must say I was really looking forward 
 to BF2. When I started playing it, it had the same great gameplay, and it even had some new elements 
 that made it fun. The big problem with this game is, even for the veterans such as myself, it's 
 very difficult to get good at this game. 
  
  I've played BF42 since it's released, and I remember the bugs. BF2 seems to have a lot of annoying 
 little bugs, but the biggest problem of all with it is, the game has horrendous graphic requirements. 
 I've got a computer that ranks on the high end of the mid-range computers, or the low end of the 
 high-range computers. I cannot play this game at even a decent resolution.
  
  It's pretty sad when I can play Forgotten Hope, the mod for BF42, and it looks better than BF2 
 and it is much older. The rest of the game is great, aside from some realism issues. They really 
 should have made the graphics more capable of being displayed on most computers. I mean, come on, 
 HL2, looks much better on my machine, turned all the way up with everything, and it doesn't lag, 
 ever. BF2 lags with everything turned down.
  
  Basically, it's a great game if you've got a LOT of patience, and an uber computer, elsewise, get 
 BF42 and just download the mods. Some of them are better than BF2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ca7593
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2005 1:39 pm PT
Review:  First off lets get this out of the way real quick, this game is absolutly breathtaking and immersive. 
 From the first time you expierience this game you will be drawn into the great gameplay as well 
 as the well layed out controls and squad commands. In this game you can really show who you are: 
 you can be a team player and heal fellow teamates by being a medic, or run into the battle like 
 that drunk friend of yours at a party, all rambo and kicking cheeks. This game has something for 
 everyone because of the rank system, and the cool weapons and classes. There are so many great 
 vehicles to scour the playing field and once again go in head first guns ablaze rambo style and 
 take everyone out at once. Whether you are a seasoned veteren (nerd) , or a noob then there is something 
 for you here in this game. And because of the incredibly rewarding and fun online play there is 
 limitless replay value, so it is definatly worth your hard earned cash. Buy this game and you will 
 be playing for hundreds of hours, so there is no need to buy any other games, so you can save your 
 money for more important things, like pants, because without pants you'd be arested. This game 
 is just plain amazing, I stand behind this game so much that if you dont like it, you can come 
 to my house and kick me where the sun don't shine, good luck gamers. The only problem for some 
 gamers may be that the game requires your PC to be beefed up, so consider before buying, really 
 how good is your computer? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintgatos
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 6, 2005 10:17 pm PT
Review:  buy it every thing is great about this game 
  
  its worth the money
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  sdf fs gfds gfdsfg f g f g df g df g efd g rw g rf dhgdf g re gdrsf g re gre g re f g df 
 gb dfg df g df g df g df g wr g vret jhtyjntr hgf h tr hf h df h rfd f d fd h h er h trh te h h 
 h hr ht w h rh w4 erh te re gf r r tr hgr hbte hg gf het hd df g gd h rt h the wr f h t tr treh 
 df hdgf hgf hfh f fg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: villageidiot202
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2, is just... plain... fun... when you get the system requirements to play this monster, 
 your in for a treat. The graphics are great and the mulitplayer is superb! It's a very insane shooter 
 and really easy to get into, just start the game, learn some basic conrtols, and head out! It's 
 insane style of gameplay makes it unique from any other shooters on the market. With all the fun 
 vehicles, such as tanks, jets, and basically any army vehicle, you name it, its there. The levels 
 can get insanely populated which can get frustrating, but adds to the insanity of the game. This 
 game is definately worth buying if you have the money for a good computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -TG-Rockdude
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2005 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Great game to play if you like quick action and enjoy teamwork. The game does have some flaws though 
 that should be worked out but if you haven't already bought it I would go buy it! If you have no 
 patients then I wouldn't get it, one because of the long spawn time of 15 seconds, two because 
 the fighting can be really slow on 64 player maps. In my opinion the revive ability was great but 
 no when you get killed revived killed revived. I do like the ranking system though, with ranked 
 and unranked servers. I also like when you apply to be commander if you are a higher ranked player 
 than the other applying then you get the spot and not him. Overall on this game I would say it 
 pretty good, worth buying instead of playing it at a friends house. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mako468
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 6, 2005 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome to play because of it's Massive Muiltplyer Online experence. The game is like 
 a modern day Battlefrount ll. It's score system is the same as battlefrount because of it's base 
 system where you capture bases and use them for people to spawn and for people to attack and defend 
 making it a crutual part of the MMO experence. The guns and other weapons are very good and have 
 alot of variety. I hope that the expansion gives alot of other qualitys to the online since i haven't 
 read or seen it yet. 
  The game for xbox also gives the unique experence this game gives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldfront45
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 11:58 am PT
Review:  Amazing graphics, great online, okay sound, if u dont play online the single player is even good! 
 The maps are all unique and fun. the vehicles are very fun and kill easy, although in my opinion 
 the jets are very hard to fly but there are many other vehicles to choose from. The new online 
 ranking system is really good. 
  
  Now there arent many bad things. Although the sound is OKAY it could use some tuning up. the ai 
 for single player could be better. You would need to have a pretty demanding computer for this 
 game.
  
  All in all this game is amazing and u need to witness the massive online battles.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yab_007
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 8:10 am PT
Review:  Hello friends. If you havent played battlefield 2 then it is urgent for you to get this 
 game. There is nothing much that I can say about it. All you have to do is to buy that game and 
 experience the greatness out of this game. I have played battlefield 2 for a while and I must admit 
 that I am addicted to it. Well it surely is a great game and I am all those who played that game 
 will agree with me. The in game graphics is absolutely sharp and smooth. Man!!! The people are 
 almost real. Get a good 3d card as without experiencing the high level of graphics in the game 
 then it would be as if you havent really played this game. The sound is almost as important 
 as the graphics and for me the accuracy of the sound is vital to kill the enemies. As for the hardware 
 requirements it is recommended to have 512mb ram and an ATI radeon 9550 256mb, and an amd 64 3500+. 
 This will make the best out of the game. Have fun and dont forget to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirko8585
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2005 5:39 am PT
Review:  Heres whats new: 
  1. Better Graphics: You will marvel them for hours before you start playing.
  2. More Vehicles: 
 Thats right a lot more vehicles for you people with road rage.
  3. More Kits: The guys at EA put every modern weapon that they could find.
  4. Long Range Artillery: 
 To blow youre opponent up with.
  5. Quicker Gameplay: The game runs fast and smooth. Your quick to die and respawn.
  6. Tons of 
 Downloadable maps: Just to keep you coming back for more.
  7. New Ranking system: allows you to rank up and become a high ranking officer of general.
  8. 
 They Brought Back Wake Island: Yes for you diehard fans who loved that level the first time.
  9. No ammo crates: There is an extra kit called support and they have ammo bags to replenish ammo 
 of allies and himself. The bags keep coming back (where does he store that ammo?) .
  10. Medics and Support can throw there bags on the ground so other people can pick em up.
  11. 
 High system requirments: Yes thats a bad thing.
  
  All in all this game was revolutionary compared to the previous one. It will keep people for hours 
 on end. It truely is the god among PC games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellknightshade
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 9:48 pm PT
Review:  This series is by far the best war series I have played for the Pc. This game especially lives 
 up to the name of battlefield with massive numbers of online activity and players the game play 
 is purely astonishing.
  
  The game play for single player is great, not as great as multiplayer but when you have a slow 
 connection what can you do. This games ability to hold massive amounts of cpus and human players 
 makes the games title what it is, a complete battlefield. The multiplayer is fun playing with many 
 other people is by far a great experience and many people enjoy playing. Flying helicopters driving 
 tanks and doing everything else that you can do is so entertaining you get addicted so fast.
  
  Graphics for this game are pure genious, great texture quality and many buildings and obstacles 
 offer great cover, guns are extravagant and detailed , as well as vehicles the graphics are all 
 around great.
  
  The sounds of this game are amazingly realistic and the sounds of bullets whirring by your head. 
 Impacts of bullets are also very astonishingly detailed , your person yelps sp to say and the impact 
 is heard.
  
  Overall this game is great a definite must buy, Good job Ea Keep these games coming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liquid_47
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2005 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game is just amazing. If you're into competition, into first person shooters, and 
 into good games, Battlefield 2 will fit this position like no other.
  
  The gameplay is like previous BF installments, with the emphasis on teamwork. The only mode really 
 offered is Conquest, where you must control a certain number of points on the map. This is a small 
 drawback of BF2, because Dice certainly could of thrown in a few more modes to make it worthwhile. 
 But for what it is, it works very well. 
  
  The three factions are the USMC (US Marine Corps) , MEC (Middle Eastern Coalition) , and the Chinese 
 one (yeah, I don't know the name of it) .
  
  Teamwork is the key, and Dice tries to make sure you work as a team. No heroes here, as doing a 
 Rambo will score you the most deaths in the round. The implement of Squads and a Commander is a 
 nice tool to make sure your team owns the opposition. If done correctly, a Commander, with the 
 ability to see the enemy, can tell the squads where to attack, defend, where supply drop offs etc 
 will be. It really feels like you're part of a huge war. In theory, it works well, but let's face 
 it: "IPWNJ00", the loser of a team mate, will run around causing havok and eventually get your 
 team killed. And if you have a Commander that doesn't know how to bring up the command console, 
 well, you'll pretty much lose. 
  
  Ranking and stats makes this game addicting as hell, however. It's great to see the server acknowledge 
 you as the best soldier of the round at the end of each round, and the BF2 rankings will make sure 
 you try and score as many medals as you can. Unlocking weapons is really fun too, and finding out 
 which unlockable is the best will make sure you'll try out all classes.
  
  The classes are quite balanced, which only mean its good. You'll want a person from each class 
 in your squad, because the enemy is going to be attacking you on foot, on vehicle, in the air, 
 etc. The Special Forces class is a great implementation, as well as the "souped up" other classes. 
 The only class that feels left out, however, is the Sniper class. I'm not sure what Dice intended 
 it to be though, but it feels like the Sniper class is intended for the "Lone Wolf" type player, 
 which is not quite Rambo style, yet not quite teamwork.
  
  Vehicles are good, and if you've played Desert Combat (the mod for BF1942) , you'll know what you're 
 in for. The maps are still not big enough for the fighter planes, but if you can handle it, its 
 good.
  
  Graphics are quite good, but you'll need a beast of a PC to get it. Lucky for us, then, that the 
 graphics can be scaled down. Unfortunately, the average PC will make BF2 almost the same as BF1942, 
 but in our time.
  
  Sound is phenomenal. The ambience truly makes you feel like you're in a war, and the muffled sound 
 of a helicopter behind a building is just great. The roaring sounds of the jet engines are just 
 a feast for the ears. You'll never hear something as satisfying as that. The in game menu music 
 is different from 1942's version, and somehow it will grow on you. The loading music is a Middle 
 Eastern version of 1942's theme, so you'll know you're at home.
  
  Overall, this game a great addition to the Battlefield franchise. It may pull in a few gamers who 
 were hoping for a 21st Century refinement, and it will definetly hold BF fans over for years to 
 come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IChangIT
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 4, 2005 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Patching this thing has been a pain in my rear. Lost count of the times patching has 'failed'. 
 Had to uninstall and reinstall quite a few times. Now that I got Special Forces, it quit working 
 again. Did a fresh install, didn't work. Doing it again. And why the hell does it install and uninstall 
 Gamespy everytime! I have it and use it for other things! Can't quit out of Gamespy installation 
 cuz it quit installing the game. And why the hell does it install directx everytime! @$ When 
 it was working, it was fun. But I've spent way too much time troubleshooting outside of the game, 
 instead of shooting in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nehad
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2005 11:02 am PT
Review:  so, u know the draw with this the battlefield vietnam came in the 2002. Now it's battlefield 2 
 which is an awesome game and one of the best fps game I ever played. First off is that not just 
 the graphic has been updated no it's whole bunch of cool features which has been added as well. 
 Also it delivers three factions that u can be as well as: USMC, MEC and CHINA. These three faactions 
 are preddy awesome to be and feel their weapons as well. Alright, u have an singleplayer component 
 and a multiplayer component as, first off is that multiplayer delivers that on each map it can 
 be 16,32 or 64 player as well, and that's good. Also u can unlock unlockable weapons on the multiplayer 
 which is good, for sure. Then u also unlock medals as well. On the singleplayer component is just 
 16 player on each map can play, and there is no unlockable stuff that u can unlock. Is 10 maps 
 that u can play trough on battlefield 2 but also you can download patches that's mean you can play 
 more maps. This game 
  should'nt should'nt be missed for everyone and especially battlefield fans!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: irxproductions
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:17 pm PT
Review:  First -off, I am a pretty big Battlefield buff. I played the heck out of some Battlefield 1942 
 and its expansion packs and liked to think that I got some game. Battlefield 2 is an interesting 
 experience when you walk into it thinking you might be able to hold your own.
  
  I bought Battlefield 2 when it was first released and, man, it was so buggy that I didn't play 
 it much until a month or two ago when the patches started rolling out. The game is a LITTLE more 
 stable now although particular events like logging in or loading the server list before you start 
 playing are slow enough to make me want to have a little mini-game that I could play within the 
 game.
  
  During the installation, I noticed a weird glitch -- the game tells you to type in the registration 
 code from the back of the CD case. After much searching (and a moment of terror at the thought 
 of having to call EA's help desk) , I found my code on the back of the instruction manul. It baffles 
 me that no reviewers seemed to have this problem but me. Maybe it was just my copy. Maybe I'm just 
 a slow. Maybe I just think EA should hire a better technical writer. Who knows?
  
  Once you get BF2 installed, patched, and find a server that's actually ranked (as well as create 
 a character name, etc.) , you'll jump into the game. The graphics will take your breath away and 
 the Soundblaster X-Fi support makse BF2 sound about as close to real war as I'd EVER want to go, 
 thank you very much. My BFG GeForce 7800GT does a good job of running all the graphics very nicely 
 and the entire game looks and plays well. So, the big question is: why didn't I give it a better 
 score? Gameplay.
  
  Gameplay is still the most important aspect of a video game. It always has been and always will 
 be. Battlefield 2's gameplay fluctuates DRAMATICALLY based on the server you join and the team 
 it puts you on. I find myself having incredibly good days where I feel as though I'm the biggest 
 bad-ass on the planet, sniping baddies from miles away, ramming people with dune buggies, and blowing 
 the hell out of some helicopters and jets with my tank.
  
  The next day, I get a bad server, I get a bad team, whatever, and suddenly I'm so pissed that I'm 
 contemplating throwing my entire computer out on the street and lighting it on fire. I've come 
 to the conclusion that there are some people out there that do NOTHING but play BF2 and drink Red 
 Bulls for 23 hours a day and then piss for the remaining hour. These are the guys that join a server, 
 jump in a jet, and then bomb your ass back to the stone age EVERY TIME you get in any vehicle. 
 You can't go anywhere, or do anything without getting blown up. Or, they'll grab a special forces 
 outfit and then snipe your butt any time you show your face. Is this fun? Not at all. Is it a good 
 simulation of war? Probably. My life experiences don't translate well into the battlefield so I'm 
 thinking this is how I'd do in real war. However, this is a GAME. I don't want it to be like the 
 REAL world where I get my brains splattered all over a McDonald's every time I walk past the wrong 
 part of town. Somehow, team-balancing just isn't up to par in BF2 and you'll get put on a team 
 of Privates fighting a team of four-star Generals (yes, the servers keep track of your score and 
 promote you accordingly throughout your tour of duty in BF2) . If I had a nickel for every time 
 I screamed "NO FAIR!" at my computer while playing this game, I'd have enough nickels to suffocate 
 the smart-asses on the other team by shoving nickels into every orifice of their bodies. ARGH!
 
  
  At any rate, my review is this -- if you're intrigued by the Battlefield pheomenon and want to 
 jump on board, run out and buy Battlefield 2. But, be forewarned, this game has a VERY serious 
 learning curve if you want to be competitive. Also, be prepared to have some days where you'd really 
 like to grab the 12-year-old who's kicking your ass because he plays the game all day because he's 
 home-schooled by the neck, shake him around, and scream "Get a life you pathetic, prepubescent 
 loser, go outside once in awhile, and let the adults play the game for awhile!!!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heydawg321
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 3, 2005 10:24 am PT
Review:  First off, this game is put together really well, the online is great and the single player skirmish's 
 are a nice touch. There is alot of variety with maps, playing style and kits you can choose from. 
 But there still are some problems. For instance, the vehicles are annoying, using them to travel 
 is fun but when your a sniper or medic and a tank or jet comes at you, there isn't a way for you 
 to destroy it. Essentially, your going to be killed, forced to switch your kit to anti-vehicle 
 and than go try to protect yourself. That's the main problem, there isn't alot of ways to deal 
 with situations. Snipers can handle afar, but nothing up close, Special Ops can handle ground vehicles, 
 but what about air? This wouldn't be a problem if people would stick together, but due to the re 
 spawn in 15 seconds factor, it's not a big deal if you die. Therefore people just run off and try 
 and do whatever they can by themselves. 
  Besides that, Battlefield 2 is a impressive game that i can recommend, it may become a little tedious 
 after awhile but there is always something to do, and because of it's arcade like style, it's great 
 to log on for 25 minutes and just get a few kills under your belt.
  
  VERDICT : 8/10 - RECOMMENDED! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krizan99
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:18 am PT
Review:  Where is the movement, the shooting?
  It is a game for not so demanding people: ( The bullets fly to wide, while your gun stays in same 
 position!! Where is reality? I want my weapon to bounce when i shoot, i want it to be difficult, 
 and that amateurs need time to play as good as u!!
  The game suck, i won't touch it again. Not even with a stick through the internet!
  It's a dissapointment 
 like CoD2MP. I just hope that in the future, they won't simplify the games, so 8year olds can play 
 as good as you.
  There is the weak spot. We must be critical in these day, because of all these stupid games that 
 are coming into our lives.... We must choose the better ones, and this isn't one.
  
  See you guys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floering
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2005 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Ever since 2001 several local game addicts and I get together at least twice a month for a lan 
 party. When Battlefield 1942 was released the next year it became our favorite game to play on 
 "game night". It was very popular because we discovered the "Desert Combat" mod for BF1942 and 
 had immense pleasure playing the CTF game among just ourselves.
  
  You can imagine our excitement when Battlefield 2 was announced. It looked like it was going to 
 be great, an actual game to play based on modern warfare that wasn't a mere modification of another 
 game. We quickly bought it when it was released, and then was annoyed when the pull down for "game 
 type" didn't budge off of "Conquest" mode.
  
  We thought "Well, we bought this game, we might as well play it". So we gave it a chance. We usually 
 only have 8 people at gamenight, and sometimes as few as five. We make a social event out of this, 
 so we are in the same place. Unfortunately, sharing the same internet connection means laggy performance 
 if we all try to connect online, even with a cable modem or DSL, so we are forced to play on a 
 local server amongst ourselves. Battlefield 2 doesn't support "coop" mode either, and playing 3v3 
 or 4v4 on the smallest maps was a capture merry-go-round with a few short firefights between massive 
 times of travelling around the map looking for someone to shoot. Even the commander interface was 
 unappealing because it meant that one player had to split his time between commander mode and soldier 
 mode because we needed as many guns as possible. CTF in 1942 was great because it focused us on 
 one of two objectives (vs the three or four on the 8-player BF2 conquest maps) , and with so few 
 people playing this was perfect to keep the action going. Unfortunately, Battlefied 2 has only 
 ONE game type, conquest, and this was severely disappointing to us. For crying out loud, Call of 
 Duty has 6-7 game types, the original BF1942 had a few, UT2004 has many game types, what was EA 
 thinking?
  
  Then finally EA dealt us the last straw. In what appears to be a desperate attempt to get the BF2 
 expansion "Special Forces" out before Christmas, EA releases a patch that utterly destroyed an 
 entire night of gaming for my friends and I. Not only is the 1.12 patch insanely large (~280 MB) 
 and won't even run unless you have some 2 Gig free on the install drive, it will destroy your BF2 
 install if you are not careful. Four of us tried to apply this patch and after many hours of trying, 
 uninstaling, redownloading, and retrying we finally gave up and played another game. (We were forced 
 to upgrade because one of the guys had already) . To this day we don't know why we couldn't apply 
 the patch, and frankly, nobody cares. We have decided to move on to other games while the BF2 CDs/DVD 
 collect dust somewhere never to be played again. Thanks EA.
  
  After reading Gamespot's reviews of Special Forces, I am not surprised that we had trouble with 
 the patch. Apparently the sucke^H^H^H^H^Hpeople who bought BF2: SF are having just as many problems 
 as we did, with the game crashing, long load times, key problems, etc. 
  
  That said, I did have a fun time playing the game online before the 1.12 patch. I enjoyed the emphasis 
 on team play and the voice chat system was useful (when it worked... sometime after the 1.01 patch 
 it broke for me) . The in-game statistics and persistent character system was a great feature. The 
 graphics and sound are all amazing, making for semi-realistic experience (although 1942 fans will 
 feel right at home with the arcade-like gameplay and feel) . This was the first game where I truly 
 felt as if I was a part of a cohesive unit of soldiers (when I played with people I knew) , and 
 where teamwork was well rewarded. Most of the time you could find random people working together 
 on the servers, but there still was a fair share of people doing random things, and team killing 
 wasn't as bad is BF1942 but still there.
  
  It is indeed sad that EA has dropped the ball on what would have been one of the greatest multiplayer 
 FPS's of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kill_me_quick
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 2, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  This is perhaps one of the best games I have ever played. The action is immense and the sheer scale 
 of the game is huge. However, there are a few problems. The loading times are huge and there is 
 some lag, but only in the planes and the helicopters. My pc is fairly midrange so, with a higher 
 end computer there should be fewer problems. One must remember though the feeling when one flies 
 over an enemy flag in a plane and drop 2 bombs and scoring a direct hit. This is one of the best 
 feelings you can get, making others days even worse!
  
  Buy this game if you don't already have it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Saddler200
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  + Wonderful graphics the effects the smoke and explosions are super nice to look at and the sound 
 is top quality the voice overs and everything else is nice and so is the music.
  + the lvls are nice and theres always lots of combat goin around the place/
  + the new cammander 
 mode adds a good stratigic element to the game
  - in singleplayer there can only be 16 players for each map the ai arnt bright at all they cant 
 even climb ladders!
  +/- the graphics may be awsome but you'll need a super good computer to run it.
  - the play now 
 thing doesnt load for me or it might just load really long i dont know.
  - cant create your own place, if there was it wouldve been cool!
  - singleplayer too easy.
 
  + theres no story to screw up your mind 
  - long long load times on multiplayer
  
  THE END 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_angry_amish
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 7:55 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. I play it regularly and I hope to see the online community around this 
 game continue to grow. 
  
  I want to keep this short and sweet, so I will summarize my views on this game very quickly:
 
  
  1. Graphics: pretty good, could use a little more blood, realism. 
  2. Gameplay: awesome, you can play for hours and not even realize it. Urban maps like Strike at 
 Karkand and Sharqi Penninsula are some of the most intense battle scenes ever. Period.
  3. Sound: Pretty cool. The use of the 3 languages really immerses you in the game. I learned a 
 lot of Arabic and Chinese. Acktibo Museff! What fun.
  
  Problems: 
  1. Server system: Pretty significant problems. Can never find a server that I want. Additionally, 
 I miss the days where there were crazy servers on online games, like low gravity or super-powerful 
 weapons. Harkens back to the old school TFC games. Realism is great, but sometimes you just want 
 to have fun. Additionally, no mods. Makes me sad that EA doesn't trust their fans enough to come 
 up with their own interpretation of this great game. This a trend that we are starting to see more 
 and more in games (Steam) , and I hope to see it change very quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauromb
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2005 6:20 am PT
Review:  quieres accion, disparos, estrategia, quieres ser un heroe, debes jugar battlefiel 2, tiene un 
 excelnete sonido, graficos, es muy adictivo mucha accion, es muy real se los recomiendo 100 % suerte.... 
 xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxx 
 xxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxx 
 xxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_jacket
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I have enjoyed playing BF2 since the Gulf of Oman was available for demo. Its a great game and 
 rates the highest of all the games Ive ever played.
  
  Its never crashed.
  
  Sound delivery is so precise that I can step out of the way of a jeep coming up behind me without 
 looking backwards. I can hear bullets fly by and judge the direction from which they were fired. 
 I can judge distance by relative volume. You can hear yourself change gears. The vehicles sound 
 and feel different.
  
  Visually, the game is amazing. I feel like Im in a city. To quote a friend, water feels wet!
 
  
  The game is fairly realistic but retains its arcade feel by leveling vehicles and equipment. I 
 really enjoy acting like a freshly arrived recruit when spawning after death. Games like Americas 
 Armies make you wait until the battle is won, and that is just no fun just like death. When I 
 play a game, I dont want it to feel so real that I wish I was dead (jk, *that I feel like Im 
 dead) .
  
  Did I mention its never crashed?
  
  They dont charge a monthly fee. They dont charge a fee for improvements. You can play on and 
 on and they just keep improving it. The latest Patch 1.12 is amazing. They fixed many problems 
 and made it sound, look, and feel better.
  
  You may also notice that you advance in rank faster now. Very nice. I love the medals and ribbons. 
 Its excellent feedback and you get to keep something more than a good feeling after an thrashin' 
 game.
  
  Nothing but praise for the game.
  Did I mention its never crashed on me?
  lol lofun
  
  red_jacket2
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reallife_batman
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is the true sequel to Battlefield 1942, and it is alot better then the originally. 
 Graphically it is up there with the best of... last year's FPS games, but that is to be expected 
 considering what exactly it is rendering. Models are well detailed, and the maps are very well 
 detailed.
  Gameplay remains virtually unchanged, you have tanks, air forces and your standard infantry to 
 wage a battle of Mass Capture the Flag against an opposing force. It is enjoyable, though repetitive 
 and outside of LANs the online play can get very annoying with who you're actually playing with. 
 Singleplayer is utter garbage but that is to be expected, this is an online game at heart.
  Sound is amazing, all the war sounds are authentic - to Call of Duty levels - and the nationalised 
 chatter is very well done.
  Overall the game is a good game, but it did not really appeal to me personally. The hassle of even 
 getting into a game was too much when all it took for Counter-Strike was 3 clicks, as opposed to 
 BF2 which was take the DVD, put it in, log on ingame, goto multiplayer, search for servers (at 
 this time there is no 'favourites' option) , then waiting a further 2 minutes to get into the match, 
 longer if it is a 32 player map. The hassle of getting into the game leaves it only to the most 
 passionate of Battlefield fans - and I am not one. This game has since be uninstalled to make way 
 for other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedRunnerx
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 29, 2005 10:38 pm PT
Review:  It would be an excellent game, but there are a few things that bring it down. For one, the game 
 is terribly repetitive. The maps are also too large and it can taken several minutes at times to 
 find an enemy. There are too many unskilled players, who constantly crash helicopters and aircraft. 
 It just seems like a game that you are playing, and 63 other people are playing, and no one really 
 cares what you are doing or how you are doing it. Teamwork is rather pointless because people rarely 
 follow the orders of the commanders and squad leaders. Teamkilling is rampant. There are a host 
 of other technical problems. In the end, buy this game at your local bargain bin. You may enjoy 
 it for a few days and then you will likely go back to playing other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanthelion
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2005 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I picked up from the recommendation of a friend. I was an avid CS source player and heard all sorts 
 of negative stuff from that community about BF2. I finally decided to cave and get the game. I 
 remember my first experience was at Karkand. The graphics were dumbed down and the resolution was 
 low and I couldn't really tell what was going on. Just seemed like bigger version of CS source. 
 I proceeded to jack the graphics up to par with what my machine can handle and loaded a different 
 map - Operation Clean Sweep.
  
  I jumped into the game and my jaw almost hit the floor. An F-18's screamed over my head and a nearby 
 arty launch had begun. I couldn't believe my eyes and my ears. All I can say is it has to be experienced 
 to be understood. Go get it NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer4life73
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2005 7:04 am PT
Review:  This is probably the best fps ever. The multiplayer never gets tiring or boring because the weapons 
 you can unlock and the ranking system. Their is so much you can do in game like blow things up 
 with c4 or use a tow or anti air turrets. The aiming is awesome, works perfectly and takes skill 
 unlike most fps's that just have a circle and u move it on them. This game make you have to look 
 down the sites like you would in real life. Its an extremely good game and i suggest this game 
 to anyone who like's fps actually anybody who is a gamer. Its just that good. This game is highly 
 addictive and hope that EA will keep up the good work because each year the Battlefield series 
 gets better and better, i have gotten every single Battlefield game and this one is the best of 
 all of them by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juul_Thijs
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 4:28 am PT
Review:  is wel oke! gewoon leuk lagen maar als je man tegen man gevacht aan gaat loop je de hele tijd rondjes 
 en dat is altijd zo helaas. ver zijn de grafiks geweldig en ik zou het spel wel willen hebben om 
 te spelen maar het is nog te duur en mijn computer kan het niet ann. Cool  
 Cool Cool Cool vv Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
  Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 CoolCool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
 Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool Cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hittin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Online Navigation::::::::::;
  The online navigating is not too good, finding servers and adding them to your favourites is quite 
 hard, not better than Valve's first person shooter games, where the options are clear, and filtering 
 options for servers is much more easier. Some improvement is needed here, maybe a skin. Sometime 
 the menu crashes and becomes un responsive, and that needs to be fixed. But you get your own gaming 
 statics so its really good, and quite fun, some good work EA has done there.
  
  Gameplay::::::::
  Map loading has been improved now, instead of waiting for quite a long time, 
 now while you are loading you get to see some stats of your player. The weapons in battlefield 
 2 are amazing. Once you start a game you feel just lke being in a army, you can drive the jeep 
 or walk, and try and think to kill the enemy. Quite alot of windows open for teamwork tips ,this 
 make the gameplay more better, and you are encouraged to play more. The game is really fun, because 
 you can kill people with weapons, or you can run them over, or you can kill them while your in a 
 aeroplane.
  
  Graphics::::::
  This is one of the weird things about battlefield 2, you wont be getting good graphics if you aint 
 got a good graphics card, but if you do have a good graphics card, you will be getting amazing 
 graphics, and you will see great enemies, great cars, amazing plane graphics, textures, shadows, 
 weapon, terrian all some of what amazing graphics battlefield 2 will offer if you have a good graphics 
 card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HTWingnut
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 28, 2005 7:43 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for realism in a tactical shooter, you won't find it here, however there are 
 tons of vehicles, weapons, and units to control. Like with the other Battlefield games, you can 
 choose which side to play for, along with what type of unit you'd like to be (i. e. medic, assault, 
 engineer, special ops, etc) .
  
  This game really requires teamwork to win the one and only current game type of conquest. Running 
 on one's own rarely wins over points, but it is still possible. Taking on different roles will 
 garner you different awards, and eventually upgrade your character with points for improved or 
 different weaponry.
  
  Once you've mastered the ground war, you can apply during each mission to be the commander and 
 give orders to troops, send a UAV for recon purposes, or send artillery to key positions alone, 
 or as indicated by ground troops. Of course the enemy can destroy the opponents artillery and satellite 
 feed essentially blinding the commander or limiting the aritillery options. These devices once 
 disabled can only be repaired by an engineer.
  
  Tanks, planes, and helicopters abound aplenty, and depending on the mission. For the most part, 
 missions and units are well balanced. There is little lag that I've experienced with a fast broadband 
 connection, and most others online seem to be pretty lag free.
  
  Communication is key as well. EA has integrated a nice quick comm feature using the keyboard an 
 mouse. But more important is the actual integrated voice over IP (VOIP) that really helps organize 
 squads and make wise tactical decisions.
  
  Overall, Battlefield 2 is a blast to play. It can grow on you if you aren't too critical about 
 the "realism" of the units, weapons, or vehicles. It is balanced for fun, not as a simulation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrei100
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 28, 2005 4:36 pm PT
Review:  love love love love love love lovevlvo loveklvlvoelv oelvoelvoelvoelvoel volvoe love lvoel voleo 
 vleovleo vloevloel voelvo ovleovloelv oelvoelvoelvo evloevleo vloev lveol voevloelv oelv oeoevle 
 ovleo vel ovl eovle olv lvoelvo leovleolvoele vollv ovloel volovelvo elovel ovlove l ovev lov e 
 love l ove lo ve loe vv love lov e love lo vel ovelov ov loelvololvle ovloelvo elvolvo e lovleo 
 lvoelvo eloveo vlvloev loe lo veo lvoevl lovel ovlev love love love loe 
  greatt great great great great geasfjage ggreat gerta grat gaset gerta great getgag ege gegrat 
 gea ge taf gega gea great geageg geagegageg ge ge ge geegaeg ee gaet et
  super perp psprer psrpe s perep supre 
  cyka cyka cyka cyka cyka cyka 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NumbLock
Rating: 5.4
Date: Nov 28, 2005 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I played it four four hundred hours. Yes, that's right 400.
  
  I played it long enough to say I got my money's worth while patiently waiting for a path, then 
 another, then another.
  
  This game has so much potential to revolutionize the online FPS. Really just wonder potential.
 
  
  The weakness is in the implementation. From day one, this game was full of broken features, bugs 
 and massive imbalances. So much so that the game that could have been the best multiplayer game 
 of all time, is a failure.
  
  The AA missiles can not shoot down jets. Period. More likely you will end up teamkilling if you 
 try to use it. The missiles seem to prefer freindly forces. I am not joking, they will lose lock 
 while chasing a jet (which it can't hit anyway) and seek out a friendly helicopter on the other 
 end of the map. For this reason, the jets can not be checked by any means. Even another jet is 
 a minor annoyance because while spend time mindlessly circling around trying to shoot down a jet 
 when you could be absolutely owning the ground forces. There is no jet pilot who has learned how 
 to take off who ends a game with less than 5:1 kill to death ratio.
  
  Another problem is the server browser. You have tons of amazing filtering options whereby you can 
 choose exactly the server type that you like. But can you? No, it doesn't work.
  
  The game even installs an icon on the desktop that will result in you having to control-alt-delete 
 to kill it. The icon is called 'Play Now'. For a valid, registered user, 'Play Now' means actually 
 'Play Later' or really 'Play Never' It just doesn't work right.
  
  I could go on and on, but I would recommend you check out the EA Official Forum first. 
  
  
 This game is broken. If they ever get it fixed, then I will be buying ranked content every two 
 months forever. Until then, my money is staying in my pocket. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asuka-Langley
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2005 9:28 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing this I thought it was a blast its the best game ive played in ages 
 the vehicles were so much fun to play, I loved how you could talk to people over your headset and 
 the software was even preinstalled in the game so everyone had the chatting software installed 
 with the game. I even bought a joystick and headset with a microphone just so I could play this 
 game but after several months of playing the game you will start to get sick of all the stat farmers, 
 spawn campers, teammates camping vehicle spawns, and playing the same maps over and over agian 
 doing the same thing you do every day. If EA included some new maps for free maybe the game would 
 be more fun but so far they have only released 1 new map and there are still many balance issues 
 with the game like how a medic gun has a scope as good as a sniper rifle and how you can kill snipers 
 with almost any gun in single shot mode since all the guns have really good scopes. Theres also 
 the people who go around from room to room shooting people with a gernade launcher from close range 
 killing people 3 feet away from them before they even fire a shot. Theres also the issue with AIR 
 power being totally overpowered since there are no SAM sites for land bases you only get stinger 
 missles which never really hit jets they just let them know where you are so they can drop bombs 
 on you a single jet can dominate the whole map if you have no good pilots on your team killing 
 4-6 people before they have to reload at their base and reloading only takes like 3 seconds. theres 
 also the matter that EA left alot of stuff out of this game that should have been included in a 
 patch instead of an expansion pack forceing people to fork over extra cash for a new release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude_12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Great Game
  
  I have to say that by far this is the most addicting, almost heart pounding game
  ive alreay 
 played for over 200 hours and it still just as fun as the first 10 or 15 hours were. although i 
 pla on a laptop with the touchpad for aiming i still ama pretty good at pwning pretty much anybody 
 so its really not to hard at all. some of the maps are a little bit too big unless u can find something 
 to roll around in or fly bt still all the maps are fun to play on. another thing that is really 
 good is the whole fling around thing. i mostly prefer helecopters, ut planes are good too. over 
 all i would give this game a 9.3 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hydrolix
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:48 pm PT
Review:  I agree fully with the Gamespot review. Battlefield 2 is a lot of fun to play. Especially if you 
 have a squad full of friends who are able to communicate effectively. 
  
  There are issues with the game. Hit detection is not always right on. The voice comm supplied by 
 the game is buggy and really never used. 
  
  These things can easily be over-looked as there are plenty of ways to get around them. Get everyone 
 in your squad on a VOIP server like Ventrillo or TeamSpeak and voice works great. BF2 also has 
 pretty good "radio" comm. Your radio is a pre-recorded message that you select from a menu that 
 is very easy to use once you get the hang of it.
  
  Bottom line, get some friends, fill out a squad and go have a good time playing in the modern battle 
 arena. Its a welcome break from the rampant WWII shooters out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: igl
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 27, 2005 9:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is straight to the point, designed for public FFA servers. These are the impression that 
 i get from the many hours I've wasted, with this product. Maybe im a nerdy gamer but i play games 
 for the fun of it beeing a "game". But something in this game is just stupid here.
  
  First rule: tank   *
  Second rule: teamwork   
  Teamwork classes (Which would play in a team, 
 get in a fancy helicopter to take enemy ground! roar.) :
  Medic - Good.
  Supporter - Bad. No accuracy; but can spam handgranades due ammo supply.
  Anti-Tank - Bad. No 
 accuracy; out of ammo after one heavy armored vehicle.
  
  Contra Teamwork classes (Which would be fun for drop-in solo action, no team or superior knowledge 
 required) :
  Special Forces - Good. Got accuracy and alot C4 to camp and spawnrape.
  Assault - Good. Got accuracy and granades.
  Tanks - Very good accuracy and explosive power - 
 Good against everything.
  Helicopter - Very good against everything, if your helicopter is not on the other one, it will 
 rule.
  Jets - Masterer Spambots. Drops bombs on the (for him) marked enemys in intervals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcarr91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2005 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing buy if u have a good computer i love it and BF2 SF is great. this is the bes 
 game ever for pc if u like shooters this is the one. The one for xbox is ok but this so much better. 
 same thing on ps2 ok but pc the best. fav game no dout. SO pick it up know only 50 bucks worth 
 the money every bit of cutting grass money. man u have to type 100 word that is to long so
  i t r oc k s i t i s t h e b e s t 
::::::

::::::
UserName: User_13
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 4:39 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game? Lots! There are many things that EA should be proud of in Battlefield 
 2, but some are pretty lack-luster.
  
  Let's start with the gameplay. BF2 is fairly easy to play and learn. It's controls resemble that 
 of any other FPS on the PC market. Left click shoot, right click secondary fire, yadda yadda yadda. 
 The game has a lot of action, and is very fast paced, if you're in the action that is. I can't 
 tell you how many times I have had to run what seemed like a mile to actually find a decent firefight, 
 and then end up dying quick and having to run the mile again. Overall, the gameplay's okay.
  
  The graphics in this game really depend on wether or not your machine can take the abuse this 
 game hits you with. If you don't have a thousand dollar high tech gaming PC, expect low-quality 
 and choppy characters. Even on medium graphics, the game lags. If you have a lower end PC and want 
 the full experience, go ahead and try to run it on high graphics. If you do, all you'll get is 
 a lag-tastic experience. Talk about fun for the whole family.
  
  The sound, again, depends on your PC. Overall, the sound isn't bad and does its job. The weapons 
 all sound different, bullets hitting buildings sound good, and tanks getting pummeled with RPG 
 fire is music to the war gamer's ears. Sadly, some of your A. I. buddies just won't shut up. They'll 
 go on and on and on, sayin, "Attack this position!" or "Defend this position!" I can't really say 
 the sound is top of the line, but it is quite good.
  
  So there's Battlefield 2 in a nutshell. You'll have fun playing it if you absolutely love war games 
 and FPS. It's worth every penny if your PC is up to date, and the online is very fun and addictive. 
 Overall, I'll give it a 7.9. User_13, out.
  
  -User_13
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: antibody007
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2005 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I never played the first version, but BF2 is what a lot of gaming companies have been promising 
 but this is the first incarnation I've seen of a total warfare multiplayer game. Its amazing that 
 10 years ago such a simulation would have required military supercomputers and here in 2005 I find 
 myself playing it on a laptop with an nVidia 6800 GO card. The concept is amazing, having players 
 flying overhead in helicopters & jets, and on the gound you have a variety of transport vehicals 
 and tanks. You can specialise your abilities as either special ops or medic etc. The weapons are 
 pretty evenly balanced on both sides although on some maps the helicopters can skip around capturing 
 flags, and sometimes they can be difficult to bring down if no anti-air is around. The vehicals 
 are also well parameterised so each has its limitations and they sound and feel just right. Its 
 also an easy learning curve which is a mark of a great interface. Overall a great game and I can 
 heartily give it a 9 plus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnPraser
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 1:57 pm PT
Review:  The Good: brings you freedom to explore, do whatever you want, and makes you feel like a part of 
 a modern war
  
  The Bad: huge system requirements, doesn't give you revolutionary graphics and speed if you don't 
 go by the reccomended system requirements; frustrating process to get online account and very long 
 load times
  
  Now onto the actual review. Now here comes a Battlefield installment where it lets you fight in 
 modern combat, and gives you freedom to explore and do things your way. However, there are huge 
 system requirements to this game. To make this game work perfect, I'd reccomend getting a superb 
 gaming computer to make it work right. If you don't go by the system reccomendations, all you get 
 is fuzzy but still sort-of great graphics and slower speed at times. But don't back away that quickly! 
 This game is still worth playing. Even buying. This is because it gives you about ten levels to 
 battle, and gives you almost absolute freedom. You can go take a fighter jet and bring down enemy 
 units, or you can hop on a boat and go across a lake or river into enemy territory. But beware, 
 the A. I. is as tough as nails due to having a lot of freedom to do stuff there way a lot. I think 
 they even can detect you and immediately use an aircraft to bomb your area. But this game still 
 takes a while to learn. You have to learn to parachute off buildings, learn to take vehicles and 
 use them at your possesion, and etc. One of the worst things about this game is that you have to 
 wait a very long time for the game to load. It can take as long as 5 minutes to even longer for 
 waiting for it to load. Another problem is getting an online account. If you already have an account 
 to GameSpy Arcade, it's almost like they won't ever let you play online. This is because when you 
 prepare to play online, they ask you to get a GameSpy account. If you type in your email address 
 or password in which you already put in your GameSpy Arcade account, they won't let you into their 
 online world. But the only way to play Battlefield 2 online in which you already have a GameSpy 
 account, my idea is to download a game patch. They have this available in GameSpy Arcade and File 
 Planet. If you download this patch (in which I haven't had the time to do that yet) , you have a 
 chance to play online. I mean really, this game has so much freedom that it makes you feel like 
 a part of a modern war. This game is worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_DoDo56
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:32 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games I've seen so far this year! I've played the demo and it blew me away to see 
 how large the maps have gotten. The sound is awesome the graphics amazing, it's like you are almost 
 really there! The new "MEC" team you can play as makes the game feel like the modern war raging 
 in Iraq and Afganistan. I love the new VoIP system which allows me to speak to my teammates through 
 the game and not a TeamSpeak type program. One of the best FPS I've played ever in my life. A must 
 have for anyone who basically likes video games. Commander system provides a cool new enviroment 
 where you need to be witty in order to infiltrate the enemy base. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gam3Guy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2005 9:01 am PT
Review:  There are three games which are my favorite muliplayer games: CS: S, DOD: S, and of coarse Battlefield 
 2. I've put in a good amount of hours in this game shaping up my rank in the game which many of 
 you already know that this game has. It makes the game very rewarding and a little more fun to 
 play, not to mention the unlockable weapons once you get into the higher ranks. I would highly 
 suggest anyone with a descent PC and love of FPS action to pick up this game ASAP!!
  
  Gameplay: Very fun. Seems like you are a real soldier fighting a real modern battle. 9/10
  
 
  Graphics: Graphics make the game very realistic looking. 9/10
  
  Sound: Good sound effects. 9/10
  
  Value: Worth the price to play this game! 10/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  EA & DICE almost got it this time, but the fact that it is modern warfare, i dont like it as much... i 
 love ww2 the best and probably always will... It is a must get if you have the money... REPEAT: 
 EA & DICE almost got it this time, but the fact that it is modern warfare, i dont like it as much... i 
 love ww2 the best and probably always will... It is a must get if you have the money... REPEAT: 
 EA & DICE almost got it this time, but the fact that it is modern warfare, i dont like it as much... i 
 love ww2 the best and probably always will... It is a must get if you have the money... REPEAT: 
 EA & DICE almost got it this time, but the fact that it is modern warfare, i dont like it as much... i 
 love ww2 the best and probably always will... It is a must get if you have the money... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ticktocktick201
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2005 5:10 am PT
Review:  If you dont have this game yet... trust me you really need to get it! It is really fun, higley addictive, 
 and just amazing in every way! You can play online with up to 63 other players in one huge mass 
 attack war! You can be medic's and heal people and shock them to bring them back to life, you can 
 be an engineer to repair stuff, then u can be a sniper, spec-ops, support, and anti-tank to take 
 out vehicles.
  
  There are over 30 differendt vehicles such as transport helicopters, battle helicopters, tanks, 
 air planes, transport vehicles, etc.
  
  When you start to get really good you can get medals, badges, and ribbons from playing online! 
 You have you're own stats place called BFHQ (battle field head quarters) which keeps count of everything 
 you do!
  
  Now take my word on this game.... it is apsoulutely amazing!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dparnass
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 10, 2006 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Before I bought Battlefield 2 I downloaded the desert combat mod for 1942 which was awesome and 
 fun. Battlefield 2 is a good and challangiong game. It is not as fun as battlefield 1942 and needs 
 more maps.
  Also the controls for the Helicopters and Jets just plain Suck. I lnow I can modify the contros 
 but the default controls for the air vehicles should be joystick not mouse.
  The wepons available and types of soldiers you can play are good. Some of the levels are challenging. 
 The most challanging and fun one is the one with all of the Islands.
  Overall battlefield 2 is a very good game with good game play and controls unless you are using 
 an air vehicle. I just wish there we more maps and single person senarios available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocokko
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 27, 2005 4:09 am PT
Review:  Let's face it - I am not really into PC gaming. I can spend the odd hour 2-3 days a week, a bit 
 more during the weekend, playing. That's as far as it goes.
  That's why there is nothing Bf2 can really offer me. And I mean, nothing. With no single player 
 campaign and no rank-based servers (the ability to play only vs players of similar rank) , I faced 
 two choices - spend hours upon hours learning, practicing, getting more experienced and starting 
 to earn the ranks, badges, unlocks and the rest of them, or just forget about it all together. 
 I chose to forget.
  Here is the bottom line - if you are a hardcore gamer - then join a clan, practice a lot, and you'll 
 be able to enjoy the new level of multiplayer experience Bf2 offers.
  If you are just looking for some fun on the odd weekends your girlfriend is away, avoid this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_astonian
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2005 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is an awesome game, if ea hadn't made it they would of never redeemed the battlefield 
 series. the gameplay is awesome, the graphics are insanely realistic, and so is the accuracy of 
 the weaponry used by each faction. the sound of each gun is distinct, they remixed the them which 
 i think was a good idea, the physics aren't too unrealistic so you won't see guys go flyin half 
 way across the level, and each bag around your characters waist moves freely. Man if my comp could 
 run it i would never get off the computer!!! i cant wait to try the expansion pack that looks extremely 
 nicely done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voted-4-bush
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 it one of the greatest fps games ever made. In my opinion Halo has nothing on this 
 game. Some people complain about "leading" people in this game. Realisticly a person can't move 
 fast enough to lead them a long ways. People arn't like Pronhorn Antelope that can run 60 mph. 
 So the realism of leading them is a mute point. the only bad thing about online play is the teamkilling. 
 I always am getting shot by some jerk and he is killing all of our guys in a tank, so I run up 
 blow him up with some c4 and I get kicked for tk. I don't get it, I just saved a bunch of people 
 and I get punished. On the web loading time does get annoying but the greatness of the game to 
 be played overshadows the wait. Overall GREAT GAME BUY IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gilligan841
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2005 4:12 am PT
Review:  I've played a lot of PC Games so far and BF2 is the best game I have ever played; very very addictive.
 
  
  I didn't want to buy it at first because I liked BattleField 1942 and Battlefield Vietnam but didn't 
 enjoy them as much as I enjoyed Medal of Honor and Call of Duty.
  
  However, I had a very good deal for a used copy of BF2 and decided to try it. What would I have 
 missed not buying this game!!
  
  The only thing I regret about this game is that there is no campaign; 9.5 insteal of 10 out of 
 10 because of that.
  
  One must consider that this game is mostly multiplayer oriented even if the game is also very interesting 
 to play single.
  
  I am a flight and combat flight simulator as well as FPS fan; BF2 combines all of this.
  
  
 What a game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raylen12
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 25, 2005 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is immersive  I can give it that. As soon as you plunge into the modern battlefields, 
 you will be greeted with explosively realistic sounds, amazingly detailed environments and soldiers, 
 and enough gunning, booming action to make you feel like youre part of a fiery battle. Sadly, 
 you will also be greeted by stupid AI, cursing, teamkilling online teammates, and dying. Lots of 
 dying.
  
  On the surface, Battlefield 2 is very attractive; given you have a computer that can run it. The 
 character models look great, though you never have time to really examine them. The vehicles and 
 weapons are beautiful, too, but the sound really blows you away, including your eardrums if you 
 care to turn it all the way up (which you will probably do, at least once) . The crackle of gunfire, 
 the roar of a vehicle approaching, the blast of a cannon thundering into the hull of a tank or 
 helicopter, all make the battlefield seem real. Battlefield 2 lacks, however, the small little 
 details that bring the world to life; almost nothing is interactive. It seems the map you play 
 on is simply a background to the action; there are very few objects to knock around, and if you 
 fire a rocket at a lamp post or tree, nothing happens. You cant drive a truck through a mesh fence, 
 or even push open a gate. Obviously, the developers sacrificed the minor details to allow for a 
 better frame rate, which is understandable.
  
  The gameplay itself was unique in Battlefield 1942, but has since been copied by Star Wars: Battlefront. 
 You start each map by choosing the kit you want to play, such as medic, engineer, or anti-tank. 
 Each kit is specialized with unique weapons and/or accessories, so each player is necessary to 
 the squad they are assigned. The chain of command is intuitive; at the top is the commander, a 
 single player who calls in artillery strikes, supply drops, and sends out orders to each squad 
 leader. The squad leaders process these orders and in turn relay the command to the members of 
 the squad. Squad leaders also function as a moving spawn point, where squad members may spawn unless 
 the squad leader is incapacitated. The squad members can ask for an artillery strike, from which 
 the squad leader can deny it or accept it, and the commander will then call the strike in or veto 
 it. 
  
  Battlefield 2 offers no single-player game; it is purely multi-player. You may play offline with 
 lethally stupid bots; they are so awful you will find yourself being sniped from the other side 
 of the map; gunned down when you are completely hidden. Online, there are plenty of thrills to 
 find, though you may encounter difficulties if you have used single-player mods. 
  
  In the end, if you are trying to decide between Battlefield 2 and some other game, BF2 is just 
 not worth $50. Plus, if you only have that much, then your computer probably cant handle the games 
 insane system requirements. So, in conclusion, your money is just better spent on game with more 
 stuff, which isnt hard to find.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elaphander89
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 25, 2005 5:34 pm PT
Review:  There is no doubt that BF2 is the best of the series with its outstanding graphics and gameplay. 
 Though planes are still hard to control, the other controls work great. But if you are one of those 
 peoplee who can't/ doesn't like to, play online, you will be disappointed with it's single player. 
 The maps are only 16 player and the smallest size. But online play is still great but i find a 
 problem with the "rising through ranks" feature. Why not just give us all the guns? Doesn't that 
 give some players who have the time and capability to get the unlockable guns an advantage? And 
 also ranked servers are usually full and laggy. Yet, if you enjoy the battlefield series and modern 
 combat, then you should get BF2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2005 1:33 am PT
Review:  If you think all PC games should be like UT2004, then you're going to like Battlefield II, one 
 of the best action games this year, perhaps even the best yet...
  
  The gameplay in Battlefield II is as good as ever, it is so addictive and over the top! You will 
 spend hours of game play online destroying your friends while using authentic modern weaponary: 
 Tanks, Helipcopters, Sniper Rifles, genuine SMGs, etc... The realistic settings and engrossing 
 online play will make you an addict right away. The only complaint is that the retail version contains 
 only the original mode of play that was in the first Battlefield.
  
  Graphically, the game delivers. Soldiers look real, so do the tanks and ships. The ground textures 
 are superb and great looking.
  
  The sound in the game is a masterpiece: From the voice overs (spoken in native languages) , to the 
 amazing vehicles SFX and explosion sequences. It look and sounds and feels like a real war!
  
  This game is an instant classic, and you have to have it, anytime, anywhere! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari20091
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 24, 2005 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is definitly one of the most amazing, exciting and most realistic games that you 
 can buy. It is definitly worth the $50 that you would pay for it! The single player is not great 
 but the multiplayer is awsome. The multiplayer Is great with a player limit of 60 makes battles 
 interesting and realistic. The graphics to the game are also incredible. It looks awsome and realistic. 
 The game takes a while to ajust to and even longer on the internet but one you have played a while 
 the game becomes more fast-paced and exciting. All should consider buying the game!!! The game 
 on single player is fairly easy but becomes alot more difficult on multiplayer!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blessed637
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  If you played the bf series such as 1942 and vietnam, you gotta get this game man. The one thing 
 I like about this game is that there's now squads and a commander. The one thing I like as being 
 the commander is that you get to order artillery. However the thing thats disappointing is the 
 single player. The AI sucks and you can't unlock the weapons for single player. They don't even 
 offer up to 64 players in the single player like in 1942 and vietnam. The best maps are gulf of 
 oman, strike at karkand, and sharqi peninsula. I wish the unlockable weapons were different for 
 each army. I also wish that they put more armies and maps. Tip: when you hear your team's vehicle 
 heading towards you in single player, GET OUT OF THE WAY! I know because I got run over like 100 
 times and the thing is, the teammates don't care at all. They want to get points. Tip: after you 
 get tired of playing as one army on a specific map, don't just switch teams. You will lose team 
 points. Look for a teammate's vehicle, get in front of it, and get run over. Then switch armies. 
 And finally, laugh as your ex-teammate loses team points. Overall this game can rival counter strike 
 in multiplayer. Get it now! It's a masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I downloaded this game in like 2 days and I am very pleased with that I got.
  
  Gameplay: You choose one of two armys and then you battle each other. You have this beautiful and 
 big areas and you have tons of weapons from each army to choose from but still it will be cool 
 if there were some missions that you need to do instand of just battle each other.
  
  Graphics: The weapons in this game are really reallistic. But I was a liitle disappointend in the 
 water because the water looks like a playstation 1 graphics.
  
  Sound: The weapons sounds very nice and clear and the grenades are awsome. But still there is no 
 music in this game at all.
  
  Value: You can play for hours and hours because it is a beautiful shooter game. The multiplayer 
 mode is really good and the battle modes are cool.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is an awsome shooter game and you should definitely buy this 
 game at all cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlipMoeJack
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:21 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, the game itself. Its beautiful it plays really well, its fun, high replayablity. 
 The only problem... a major problem is online functionality. Unfortunatly Battlefield 2 uses GameSpy 
 Arcade for online play. I don't understand why game companies decide to use GameSpy, every game 
 I've played through GameSpy Arcade has turned the game's multiplayer into garbage.
  
  In contrast, Half Life 2's & Counter Strike: Source's online program by Valve called "Steam" is 
 of the highest quality online game program. Not only are they constantly updating Steam, but Steam 
 allows you to enter a game, taking Counter Strike Source as an example, 30 seconds. Battlefield 
 2's Gamespy Arcade can take up 1 minute and 30 seconds on average AND you are refquently disconnected 
 from the server you are joining AFTER completing the 1 minute and 30 seconds of loading. Doesn't 
 stop there, even after you enter the game you can get disconnected before firing a shot. 
  
  Gamepsy Arcade is by the far the ugliest, slowest online game program there is. I really do 
 hope Battlefield 2 does go on Steam. Not only will there be 0 chance of account theft, but the 
 game will be PLAYABLE. This game is built around multiplayer, you can't have a game so great run 
 on such a low quality program as GameSpy Arcade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miller_Time3818
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 9:29 am PT
Review:  When I got Battlefield Vietnam I was so happy, but after playing it for about an hour or so I noticed 
 something... NO campaign! I know these games are mainly for online play but I think if they just 
 added a campaign in there somewhere it would make the game soooooo much better. Its still fun but 
 if you just dont feel like playing online then your stuck to play the regular maps without even 
 accomplishing anything. Also sometimes it will either shut down the game completely or just minimize 
 it. I have a really good computer and I can bump up the graphics all the way without any problems 
 but when i play online it will do this to me, and my friend.
  
  Well, besides the no campaign and random shutdowns I think its an awesome game. The graphics are 
 incredible! But before you go out and buy it, this is one of those games where you should really 
 have a good computer, with an excellent graphics card to make it so much more fun.
  
  MAKE SURE YOU DOWNLOAD THE LASTEST PATCH, because if you dont the game will do weird things.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: makeuser
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2005 8:03 am PT
Review:  I dunno, what more do you want? It's got mutiple kits, weapons and armies. It's got big games, 
 small games, long games, and short games. It's got great graphics. The learning curve is short 
 and not that steep, pick up and go, work as a team (better) or go it alone. Land, air and water 
 (minor) . The only drawback is the official number of ranked maps are few, but there are plenty 
 of mods (although I've never played them) . The rankings/ranks/stats/medals have held my interest 
 long after the maps. The game pace is fast which is good for such a simplistic goal game. Highly 
 addictive (nearly 400hrs) . You can easily find a game online. Options/strategy to kill/win are 
 nearly infinite.
  
  Drawbacks: you can get stuck on a bad team, entry level/old sys won't cut it, game patches are 
 a must, some maps too large (no vehicle, u r bozo'd) , you can be kicked/banned by server admin 
 for anything (I have, I didn't know the rules, knife fight, it looked like west side story, I had 
 a gun, who knew? can't cuss? why !@#%$ not?)
  
  This is the first online game I really enjoyed and bothered to invest time/money. I love it. If 
 you have a dependable isp (dsl/cable) , buy it, play it and keep an eye on your watch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alrenchy1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 24, 2005 2:35 am PT
Review:  There are many team based shooting games out there. But few like Battle Field 2 have captured the 
 elements of the genre. I have played many games and one of my favorite is the team based shooting 
 game. BF2 has set a new standard of this genre for many months to come. The older Battle Field 
 series has had some high remarks and ratings. At first glance of BF2, thinking it be just the same 
 as the prequels but instead it something more fun and just more chaos. I like it the fact that 
 you can have someone to command the whole squad with each a squad (team) leader. It also incorporates 
 the "kits" ex. special forces, assualt, support etc. making it more complex and challenging. Every 
 level is different and the key to winning is not just team work but choosing the kits wisely. Some 
 levels are wide and open so it's common to choose a weapon that is more effective on longer distance 
 and vise versa. Another one is the urban close quarter fighting, mainly the levels Sharqi peninsula 
 and Karkland as the most popular levels in BF2. As opposed to the other levels that open, the urban 
 levels are different because it's fast and just pure carnage. It has armored vehicles and tanks 
 so each team must work and choose anti-tank kits to counter this issues. The use of vehicles can 
 also determine the outcome of the game. Some vehicles are used for fast transport, some for destroying 
 obstacles and other vehicles. The aircraft is also incorporated to the game very nicelly, it can 
 support the movement of the troops by providing cover, however there are some anti-aircraft vehicles 
 and mounted anti-aircraft missiles to take down the aircraft. With all this elements combined in 
 the battle field makes it all balance to both sides. So at the end, the outcome of the game is 
 decided by team work and skills. Overall Battle Field 2 is fast and just pure fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathismycure
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2005 7:53 pm PT
Review:  We all know those war movies you love to watch over and over. Saving Private Ryan made you think 
 "Oh my god. War is insane!" For me, this game shows you how it would be in a real war, except.. 
 you can spawn all you want. Being able to fly an F-35B, or a J-10 Jet makes this game one of my 
 favorite PC titles in a long time. If you like just playing a great First Person Shooter or you 
 like being able to blow up a tank with your Apache helicopter then this game is just what you want. 
 You're able to gain ranks and prove to your friend who has the best Kill/Death ratio or who uses 
 the most class. Battlefield 2 is one of the most revolutionary games of modern day combat warfare. 
 Believe me when I say, you want to be strapped into your seat while you're playing this. Jets, 
 transport helicopters, attack helicopters, bombers, tanks, APCs, humvees, jeeps, and boats. Anything 
 and everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironbig
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is perfect in every way I can think of from sniping on roof tops to getting a triple 
 kill with a grenade launcher to the first time you run some one over with your hummer. If your 
 lucky you will find a server where u can play with a squad which is all based on team work and 
 score points to unlock kits on-line, offline the A. I. on both teams is great and will give a great 
 experience with all different maps and play styles and being a squad leader or commander can be 
 an awesome experience and a way to earn extra teamwork points. THIS IS ONE OF THE BEST GAMES I 
 HAVE EVER PLAYED!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mejia13fernando
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2005 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game is fantastic. This game should be recommended for all video game players and simply 
 the best of the best. The single player rocks and the multiplayer is even better. The graphics 
 is awesome and if you have an awesome computer like me, then you can crank the resolution, the 
 graphics. and everything else up and it will look awesome. This game is perfect. I am amazed by 
 EA Games. They all did an awesome job on this game. This game is simply the best of its kind and 
 should be known to be one of the best games of the year 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pocketaces717
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2005 7:10 am PT
Review:  This game is such a joy to play when you are playing in a map with a cooperative squad with VOIP. 
 It feels awesome to move from house to house at Sharqi with your squad, or storm the beach bases 
 at Oman with your squad leading the way. With all the classes supporting and balancing each other, 
 the rock-paper-scissors class arrangement places heavy emphasis on teamwork in squads. Also, keeping 
 a profile of your accomplishments online is a great new feature. Whether it is looking forward 
 to unlocks or for bragging rights, the new stat track makes you want to win and play smart.
  
  However, several aspects of the game sometimes make it annoying, and sometimes not fun at all. 
 The load times are horrible, and finding servers is very cumbersome, even after the 1.03 patch. 
 And when you are playing on big maps that focuses on vehicles, it isn't fun to stand around while 
 you wait for them to spawn. And when playing with idiots that run around TKing or not working together, 
 it can sometimes be frustrating. Nevertheless, this game is some of the most fun I have ever had 
 when it is done right. Thankfully, it gets it right most of the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hardcoreforever
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  Bf2 started with such promise and greatness. However in the past few months further patches brought 
 controversy. They kept adding/changing things in bf2 without fixing some of its most prevalent 
 bugs.
  Even the ones the community at large has been complaining in numerous posts and rants on various 
 bf2 forums.
  
  With the most recent patch (1.3) Bf2 is seeing a steady decline of players.
  1.3 has (remarkably) 
 plagued bf2 with evem more bugs. Crashes to desktop are now more frequent and almost to the point 
 of making Bf2 unplayable.
  
  Many others in the community have/are experiencing these noted problems.
  They range from many 
 different hardware profiles, all experiencing reletivly the same bugs and problems.
  
  The game at its core is great, but its graphics engine can be quite clunky with memory leaks, unexplainable 
 drops in framerates. If there is a technical problem that can occur in an online fps you can bet 
 bf2 suffers from it.
  
  Over all this would have been a more objective and positive review but with EA and Dice's poor 
 and often detrimental support it has become a mockery of the game it once was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waikit25
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 7:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best online combat game since Counter-strike. It emphasises more on tactical methods 
 to complete your objectives provided you are not a lone ranger who just go into a game gun blazing. 
 It is best played as a team. The graphics is very realistic and so is the gameplay. Sigh...... 
 Too bad i do not have a internet connection on my PC currently and can only play single player, 
 but that was enough to occupy me for weeks. The bots may be a bit dumb at times, but they still 
 put up a good fight at higher difficulty levels. One thing that quite bothers me is the steep pc 
 requirements to play. It needs a minimum 512mb ram to play and my pc just barely make the cut and 
 i have to play at the lowest resolution in order to play it smoothly. Sob Sob...... :.... ( have 
 to upgrade. So i couldnt experience it full blast. But its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agunst99
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 4:47 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best first person shooter game that any one will ever play. its got amazing graphics 
 and great gameplay. this is a great all around game the only down part to it is the waiting time 
 to get into to actual game when your online because you really want to play and youve got to some 
 times wait a good 5 minutes but besides for that this game is the best game made. in the online 
 play you spend time geting the jist of it but you should pick it up rather quick. a great thing 
 about the game is your profile you can see your level and look at all your great awards in battles. 
 also i think that this is very much related to actual war youve got to be strategic you cant run 
 around and expect to be able to kill every one you have a commander and also you cnhave squads 
 and on top of that you have a leader of the squad wich is called a squad leader. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chessem
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:38 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is your average battlefield game... except that its not that average.
  
  As in all the previous battlefield games players run around in first person mode and attempt to 
 overwhelm the enemy in various manners, from storming to sneaky capturing of command points... 
 perhaps even both. 
  
  The game is solely centred around providing a fun, fullfilling multiplayer experience. And it does 
 that. Very well i might add. Be it on LAN or online you are sure to amuse yourelf in planning ambushes 
 using C4 explosives, blowing away the competition in one of many heavy-duty vehicles or anhialate 
 players from the sidelines as a commander using his artillery.
  
  The game has three armies: United Sates Marine Corps (USMC) ; The Middle Eastern Coalition (MEC) 
 and China. Each army has its basic units:
  -Special Forces
  -Assault 
  -Anti Tank
  -Engineer
  -Medic
  -Sniper
  -Support
  
  Each one with its own specific strengths and 
 weaknesses. Each unit is also tailored to its army, for example: MEC Assault troops are armed with 
 an automatic assault rifle (noteably and AK) , whilst USMC Assault troops are outfitted with riffles 
 which shoot 3 bullets at a time maximum, allowing a more bullet-sparing way of shooting.
  
  All these little details enable players more variety to customise their style of play closer to 
 what they would really be like if they themselves were on the field of battle.
  
  Along with the different soldiers different vehicles are also present for players to control. Again, 
 each army has base units:
  -Main Assault Tank
  -Anti Aircraft
  -Armoured Personel Carrier
  -Light Transport
  -Car (very light vehicle)
  -A variety of planes
 
  -Transport helicopters
  -Assault Helicopters
  -Duck boat
  
  Depending on the map some of these will be present. Again, all vehicles (with the exception of 
 the duck boat) are customised for the armies they serve.
  
  There are many different types of maps that each require their own strategy to overcome. The terrain 
 ranges from Cinese misty forests to marshlands to Middle Eastern desserts. There is also different 
 sizes for each map:
  -16 player
  -32 player
  -64 player
  
  These changes in map sizes also greatly affect the way in which it is played as they often include 
 additional types of vehicles that were not available on the smaller versions.
  
  Online play is where players have the most fun. Along with the challenge of taking down other players, 
 all kills, shots, deaths, times in vehicles are recorded and donate towards medals, badges, ribbons 
 and eventually promotions. After a certain rank, players can start unlocking special weapons. 
 
  
  Each different infantry unit has a different special weapon that gives the player desicive advantages 
 versus players with stock weapons. Once players have unlocked a weapon it will be available to 
 him/her in whatever army they wish to play as. They are not customised for each army. They do not 
 take the place of the players stock weapon, however. The player still has the ability to switch 
 weapons when respawning (stock weapons have certain attributes that special weapons do not and 
 the player may prefer those qualities to the ones of the new weapon) .
  
  Multiplay may be BF2s strongest attribute, but it is also its weakest aspect. If a player in question 
 does not have a connection fast enough for the game, he/ she may be subject to being kicked out 
 of most premium servers. Also, if
  they do not have connection watsoever, they will have to stick up with playing bots in mock multiplayer 
 missions as there are no (not that I've seen, pardon mistake if wrong) single-player missions. 
 Also bot maps are limited to 16 player size limiting much of the fun that can be had on larger 
 maps.
  
  All in all a great game with few rivals. However, if you do not have multiplay compatabilities 
 this might be sort of a bore after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcio_castro
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:00 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is war game catch-the-flag style like many others, but its a great simulation of 
 the modern combat warfare, with strike targets marked by a satellite signal, support helicopters, 
 jets carrying with guided bombs, tanks, jeeps with machine guns, boats  and you can operate all 
 of these vehicles. 
  Combat kits are good and show the need of teamwork to victory at campaign. If you like Rambo style, 
 you will have lot of work. For example, Special Ops need some support from Assault troop after 
 destroy the enemy radar station because enemy soldiers came from everywhere. Snipers are efficient 
 against soldiers on foot (if he is well hidden) and give some protection to soldier with anti-tank 
 weapons. The Support must be with the Assault soldiers at the middle of the squad because your 
 big firepower isnt precise, and the Medic must be at back of the line, with some protection from 
 enemies, to care hurt soldiers or even bring them to life again. 
  Its cool take the weapons kit from enemy killed or their vehicles: the sound of AK-47 is more 
 aggressive than M-16 and the Chinese tank sounds more resistant. 
  In single player mode, you have lot of fun with 12 maps and 3 armies to play. 
  In multiplayer 
 mode, on LAN or on Internet with personal server, you need at least 6 friends to interesting play. 
 Battlefield 2 hasnt bots at multiplayer (like Brothers in Arms, for example) . Army of one man 
 is not an army: it is a mercenary against other. 
  Other disappointed feature is the weapons locked. You only unlock these items playing Battlefield 
 2 on ranked servers (specific servers at Internet authorized by EA) and you need to be promoted 
 at rank to access new weapons. Otherwise, playing with headsets to talk with your team members 
 is spectacular!
  Finally, it is an exceptional combat game and certainly takes a long time to other game from the 
 same genre to overcome Battlefield 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: niceblunt
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:09 am PT
Review:  one of the best fps's i"ve played in a long time. The 64 player multiplayer is amazing espicially 
 with the persistant character and weapon unlock. the single player is no longer something that 
 you will never use but something to practice on untill you get good. {players are dam good after 
 all the battlefield games} thanks to the improved ai they are now worthy aponents.
  The sound in the game is great they have every thing down from gunshots to artillery strikes. Finally 
 they graphic are vary well done but you will need a tpo of the line computer to get the most out 
 of it.
  
  This is a that needs to be in your collection for years to come 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnurAyas
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 21, 2005 2:04 am PT
Review:  Helicopters are hard to control for me, its annoying when u see others managing to steer it better 
 than you can, lol i shoot my allies down when that happens :P
  
  Oh and its hard to kill poeple online! I doubt you lot will have any troubles but everytime i check 
 if the enemies around and then run to another point, i get killed :D so annoying though. im used 
 to counterstrike (i play for a semi pro clan) but BF2 is somthing else. nice, but somthing else. 
 :D
  
  i had a graphic card problem at first so i couldnt play BF2 untill they released the patch for 
 ATI, but its all okay now. They have releasaed it on the ATI wbsite if your having the same problem. 
 www. ATI. com (or somthing)
  
  onzZ :you may say im a dreamer, But im not the only one, i hope some day you'll join us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IainHerd
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 20, 2005 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, this is a great title; graphic are awesome; sounds are insane (especially when 
 caught in artillery fire) . I especially like the introduction of a team-like play. But that is 
 about where it ends.
  
  Just like '42 and Vietnam: Battlefield 2 was just a chaotic in online play. I found much of the 
 team based play diminished upon entering any of the online play. Like its predecessors, this game 
 too was full of far too much solo play and trigger happy snipers. The only true team play was seen 
 amongst 'chums' (if you could find em online, thanks to the lack of any sort of decent buddy system) 
 or squads, who more then often preyed on the vast selection of solo-players to rape and obtain 
 'ez' kills. 
  
  Lastly, I still found this game to have a 1942-ish feel to it -- sorta like Vietnam (which, in 
 my opinion felt like 1942 but with new skins and new maps) . Like the others, BF2 too had the same 
 look-alike characters running around a map shooting/blowing one another up. The least they could 
 have done was create a in-game (or out of game system [I really don't care] ) that allowed us to 
 edit the look of our player. Heck, if they allowed you to put our own faces in-game would have 
 greatly added to overall feeling and value of this game. It was because of this lack of effort 
 which caused them to fall short of truly creating a worthy sequel which had its own unique feel.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbr900qld
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I have found BF2 to be an excellent game, the online stuff is mind blowing and the single player 
 is good too, but I have found with my group, we like a lot of LAN Co-op games and that just isn't 
 possible. The online, like I said is very good, but I don't want to be online to have a good Multi-player 
 game all the time, and I would like to see EA do future games with both options, as in to include 
 bots in a LAN game.
  The playability of the single player is very challenging also, with no game too easy, and always 
 making you choose new options.
  The graphics and running of the game are excellent and over all a good buy. Ill be looking closely 
 at the Special Forces add-on before buying though.
  I do highly recommend it; again, its a good buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwadsworth
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:14 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 on the pc is great however it feels only half a game no campaign levels all you can 
 do is play a rather watered down version of the mutliplay. Come on guys these days we want everything!!!! 
 and the money we pay we should!!!!
  
  Ok lets look at the mutiplay - again the multi play is brillant can't beat it th grapis are some 
 of the best the siund is great.
  
  If it moves you can use it!! You are going to have to spend a little time getting used to the controls 
 but once you get the hang of the jets you probably waste have the game waiting for a plane to spawn 
 in fact you be screaming for someone to die so you can I found this very hard but you can play 
 offline to get used to the flight system you will crash, you will die but you will learn 
  
  Save your money and if you have an xbox buy the xbox version at least there is single player 
 campaign
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cato_jwgacy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 18, 2005 8:17 pm PT
Review:  This is one online military game based on acutal guns and vehicles that is a must have for all 
 gamers. If your new to the game, I suggest you go pratice on the small singeplayer portion of the 
 game. This game can be very hard, just your level, or way too easy. If you played BF 1942 and the 
 Desert Combat mod, then this can be pretty easy to learn. The learning curve can be steep if you 
 haven't played BF 1942, but can be really straight foreward once you get the hang of it. You can't 
 describe the gameplay of this game in words. I will tell you that much right now. 
  
  The graphics are just amazing, if you had the new Nvidia GeForce 7800 GTX OC 512 MB in SLI (dual) 
 then you can enjoy this on its highest settings. Even though I can't run the settings on high, 
 even on with low settings with a descent resolution, and max filtering it just looks great. The 
 only thing I hate about the graphics is that the requirements to run this can be pretty steep. 
 I had to go buy a new graphics card just to run the demo.
  
  The sound feels good to listen to, with a high end sound card you really feel like you there in 
 the battlefield. The guns firing around you and the bullets hitting the ground are just perfect. 
 My only complaint about the sound is that the gun sounds are not realistic but they still sound 
 great.
  
  The fact there is a ranking and award system adds so much value to the game. You can earn 18 ribbons, 
 20 badges, 15 medals, and 3 medals that you can earn multiple times. Each of the awards have certain 
 objectives you have to complete, and im not gonna spoil that for anyone . The 20 badges each have 
 3 stages; basic, veteran, and expert. The 18 ribbons and 18 medals don't have the 3 stages the 
 badges do.
  
  The bad things about the game. The interface you use to find a server can freeze up your game and 
 has some bugs to fix. The loading times can be pretty long depending on your settings. The requirements 
 for this game are pretty high. Trying to re-bind the controls can be really hard, it can make you 
 made easily.
  
  Despite these problems, this is a must have for any gamer on this planet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex-_3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2005 10:07 am PT
Review:  BF2 is one of my favorite PC games around, and i buy a lot of PC games. So far this is my favorite. 
 There is so much to do in this game, i still havn't mastered EVERYTHING! The vehicles are smooth 
 and really fun to drive. The air vehicles, such as choppers, and jets are really a blast, because 
 you can fly soooo fast, and drop bombs to kill a large amount of noobs. I highly recomenr this 
 game to anyone. It's a game where you can easily get really into, like me. You choose from 3 different 
 countries, to play with. The chinese, who I like a lot, the MEC, who are Iraq people, and of course 
 my favorite... the AMERICANS! And do me a favor, don't buy this game for the Xbox or PS2! This 
 game belongs on you PC!!!
  
  Written by
  A true gamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spectre-123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 9:34 pm PT
Review:  This multiplayer game is best played online. It is very well done, with great graphics (you need 
 a good graphics card) , sound and most importantly, gameplay. 
  
  For Counter Strike fans out there, they probably wouldn't like this game, but for everyone else 
 who plays a REAL game, they will love this. Basically you start at spawn points and then set out 
 to capture other flags, while killing the enemy with a large array of modern vehicles and weaponry. 
 Sounds stupid at first but if played online it towers over every other online game.
  
  There are lots and lots of fun possibilites (most can be humourous, so keep your finger on the 
 screenshot button) and it never is the same things that people do. For those who didn't like the 
 other Battlefield games, you can't compare this to them because it has so many improvements I could 
 say its a totally different game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnyappleboy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 2:49 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game last July after playing the demo of it and found it to be one of the best PC 
 games I've ever played. I found the game's simple approach and style to be quite appealing. Also, 
 since I don't like playing FPS on PC, I found the controls to be quite easy to pick up and play 
 from the get go. Overall, Battlefield 2 was probably the best game I've played since Halo 2 came 
 out last year and I do look forward to the expansion coming out later this month and also buying 
 the Xbox 360 version of the game when it is out in stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeff_d5
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 17, 2005 2:23 pm PT
Review:  ok its a nice game and all i played the first one at least i think i did but this ones prety much 
 the same a bit better graphix on the models and veichles but i find that the level design is just 
 bad bad in this one and bad in the last one. flying kinda sucks dont ask me why but thats just 
 what i think
  
  the game although is not as great graphix as some other games it seems too run slower than a game 
 with better graphix (radeon 9600 se)
  i think its that the game has a large enviroment. wish they put more into the single player or 
 added alot more ai characters on the screen at once because its just dissapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-PRIME90
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 17, 2005 7:47 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because it looked pretty good from the videos and screenshots. But once I got 
 it I decided to go online with other people and in the beggining there were alot of bugs with the 
 servers and the people wouldn't play the game properly. I found myself many times being killed 
 by my own team. Because of that, I lost interest and ended up createing my own private game and 
 playing on my own and just exploreing the maps. But that got boreing.
  
  If you are interested in buying this game, you should probably check into it very good first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlandcarl
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 17, 2005 12:57 am PT
Review:  I played a demo of the game and couldn't stop playing it because it was so much fun even though 
 it's just run to place and capture it.
  
  But it's so mnuch more then that because there is such a wide range of tanks, planes, cars, etc. 
 WHich makes it so much fun and also it is tactical because before you start you can chose what 
 type of class soldier you want to be and when you die it's the same. 
  
  Also the online multiplayer is AMAZING to play if you don't have it buy because thew campaign and 
 the multiplayer is alot of fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FCdevil
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 12:30 am PT
Review:  The best & most challenging Joint Operations game till date. Highlights are the various kits, vehicles, 
 jets, choppers, ground defenses, to choose from.
  
  When you are playing online there are like 100s of players working together. 
  
  The VOIP is 
 designed so well that the Squad leader can talk with both the squad members and the commander but 
 the squad can only talk with each other or their squad leaders so there is no unnecessary cross 
 talk unlike CS or other games where there are like 30 people who constantly blabbering in your 
 ears and distracting you. 
  
  The commander function rules when ever you want help like UAV, Supplies artillery or when want 
 to know where the action is at in the map he helps you (bummer for the commander cause he cant 
 play & help out) . But a player who thinks of the team & not personal glory will make a good commander. 
 (whole point of Joint operation games)
  
  if u dont have it. Get it now!!! Worth every penny. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_boss0008
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 16, 2005 2:57 pm PT
Review:  THis multiplayer game is just in a word AWESOME.
  From the different aspects of the game, it's just plain style and great! 
  From the first instalment 
 it has evolved a lot. Fighting in a modern war is just cool. I like the system of ranks in the 
 military u start as a lil corporal and could end up general!
  The choice of weapons is quite good, reaslistic to our modern armies.
  The graphics are good, 
 as the gameplay.
  
  However as many multiplayer games they all have their lil problems. In this case it has its glitches: 
 name of ally displayed as enemy, flag not captured,... Also the system of forgive/punish for Tk 
 is just stupid. We kick idles and TKers and perhaps ban. For most Tk's it's reallly inintentional.
 
  
  For FPS fans, it's a good game if not innovative. Let just hope they release a patch where they 
 fix their probs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROCKINGFOOL
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2005 7:42 am PT
Review:  the game is gr8 but it didnt had agood start since they releasd the first patch and made all of 
 the EA servers go beserks (memory leak which made the game crash alot) and even the second which 
 only fixd the memory, so iam gona talk about the game after the newly releasd patch 3 not be4 well 
 simply you must have apowerfull pc and agraphic not less than nvidea 6600 so you can enter the 
 game and get anice visualls any way its amasterpiece and ihop you get agood clan and agr8 server 
 so you can rank up and if you your gona say i playd bf2 more than 3 months and didnt rank up so 
 fast well baby cuz you suck at it :) and guys and girls plz see the attribute its after the patch 
 3 not be4 :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hairymop
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 15, 2005 7:43 am PT
Review:  This game encompasses it all. It is exciting, fast moving, packed with action and heaps of scope 
 to expand. I been playing FPS games since the first Doom, and this is by far the most addictive 
 one I have run into so far. I'm looking forward to the expansion pack with the new maps.
  
  The advent of capturing the spawn points make sure the game flows back and forth giving it the 
 real feel of a battle for territory. Single player is lame but really only necessary for practicing 
 to go online. Once you are online you may want to spend some time finding a server that suits you 
 as you get wiped out as a beginner on some of the more popular servers. This doesn't happen for 
 long as you soon figure out how to stay alive. Friends, joining a squad, team mates and medics 
 make it possible.
  
  I highly recommend buying this game and quitting watching TV! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parsaw
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2005 11:41 pm PT
Review:  My first thoughts when I entered a game server was, "Wow!" This game looks much better than its 
 previous versions. (Battlefield: Vietnam, Battlefield1942) The learning curve is perfect, it doesn't 
 take long to learn, especially if you have played ANY First person shooter before. This game is 
 magnificent, and you will not regret it if you purchase this game. I know I didn't. As soon as 
 I entered the realm of Battlefield 2, I was in awe. I figured this title would be just like any 
 other FPS, I was wrong, it's awesome graphics and nice sound just added to the fantastic gameplay. 
 Though, the downfall is, you will need a pretty nice computer for it to run, but it's all worth 
 it in the long run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Code
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 14, 2005 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is the sequel to Battlefield 1942 and ups the anty with a more advanced combat. The game 
 is modern combat meaning you have guns and vehicles used in todays armies. The gameplay is varied 
 allowing you to play in squads of 6 and work as a team or play as a commander and play the game 
 more like a RTS where you have to help your trrops with artillary strikes and supply drops or you 
 can just run around shooting things.
  When you enter a game you choose your kit which will choose what equiptment you have you can change 
 your kit whenever you want tho you have to die and respawn to get the kit in effect. The online 
 play is server based meaning you wont be making your own rooms without paying for a slot this a 
 good and bad thing the bad you cant make a room if you cant find one the good less lag. Servers 
 can have up to 64 people in them meaning you wont go long with out seeing an enemy. The bad part 
 about the game is there is Really no single player story meaning if you dont have internet (one 
 you probly wont read this review) dont buy this game. Another downer is there is no ingame clan 
 option meaning its kinda of a go online to a website thing. Overall this game is great if you have 
 online if you dont sorry out of luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 14, 2005 5:33 am PT
Review:  Great graffics, great sound, great gameplay, several innovations over early BF games=great fun. 
 The only nit pick is most of the hand held weapons are really weak. You can live with it or just 
 load up one of the many mods that tweak the damage values of the handheld weapons. The commander 
 and squad leader functions add a whole new dimension to the BF series...... the ability to partner 
 up with different character classes with differing abilities add an unbelievable degree of flexibility 
 and camaraderie to the squad based theme of BF2. Of course......... as always........ smacktard team 
 mates can ruin the best of things! LOL! Great game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Anguish
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 13, 2005 2:42 pm PT
Review:  
  Like the above excellent game i mean i love Battlefield 1942 but this one is the best FPS game 
 i've played in a long time not as good a F. E. A. R. but if your computer wont run F. E. A. R go out 
 an buy this game right now! to start off with the single player is ok but the multi-player is the 
 best so far i would buy this if it was jst a multi-player game it well worth the money to buy it 
 and well worth the wait for it to ship over here but other then that i love this game
  the difficulty depends on how new you are to the games of battlefield so if you've played 1942 
 it will either be easy or just right the playing time well reflects just how addictive this game 
 is to anyone to be honest. now the learning curve does depend on how new you are also my classification 
 is amazing just like 1942 this game is awesome/amazing.
  
  Thanks for Reading
  
  Anguish 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outbreak201
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 13, 2005 1:32 pm PT
Review:  When i bought my battlefield 2 i was deeply in love with it. I poped it in my computer and i played 
 online. It was laggy and slow, but that was just my computer cause it was pretty old, so made my 
 self a brand new computer for $2000 at neweggs ( i didnt even bother getting a cool mouse, keyboard, 
 or screen) and it was the fastest gaming computer in the world. After that I played bf 2 for days 
 and days with my other games. Battlefield 2 is a great game with its modern weapons, vehicles, 
 gadgets. The graphics are so well detailed that it looked so realistic. I reconmend this game to 
 anyone that sits on thier butts on the computer. peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinjennison
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 13, 2005 11:27 am PT
Review:  This game is a blast, no argument there.
  
  However, I think the gamespot reviewers are paying to much attention to the wrong things. What 
 really counts for fun and replayability - in my opinion - is the map design. Battlefield 2 suffers 
 from the same problem Battlefield: Vietnam did, the maps simply aren't as much fun to play as the 
 original Battlefield 1942. Maps like Wake Island and Omaha beach (or it was liek omaha beach anyway 
 if that wasn't the name) were so much fun in the first game! Yes, the predecessor's to BF1942 have 
 added gameplay features, increased the graphics, etc. but at the expense of multiplayer modes and 
 fun maps.
  
  So even though the game has improved in many respects, the core fun-factor has decreased for me. 
 I want to have the option to play deathmatch and CTF gametypes, and to play them on maps with simple 
 but fun designs. There premises that I'm whining about are what makes Halo 2 so successful and 
 I'm not sure why that's not noticed by FPS developers like DICE. Halo offers TONS of different 
 modes like slayer, oddball, CTF, KOTH, etc. and simple but effective map designs. That's a huge 
 reason why that game rocks and why the first BF1942 rocked. 
  
  Please DICE, return to your roots with the next installment. Bring some more of the fun back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoLariS_92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 13, 2005 10:09 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is an intense squad based shooter with tons of substance. With new weapons, vehicles, 
 features, and... well, a new timeframe, Battlefield 2 will keep you screaming for a medic for hours 
 on end. The game takes place in a fictional conflict between the Chinese, Americans, and a Middle 
 Eastern military group. There are several maps when you buy the game, and all of them work well 
 for full scale battles, but only about 3/4 of them work for small, 8 vs. 8 squad matches.
  
  The realism in this game is well.... inaccurately accurate. Individual bullets have their own 
 physics and flight paths depending on how fast you're moving or if you are prone, so you'll have 
 to extra good aim to get those unbelievable headshots with a pistol that all of us counter strike 
 players are so familiar with. But I'm pretty sure that an F-18 won't actually fly 50 ft. off the 
 ground above a nuclear plant. In my opinion, there is a perfect balance between realism and arcade 
 action.
  
  The graphics and sound quality are astounding with great detail in lighting and shadows, but you're 
 gonna need a fat wallet in order to upgrade you're computer to get it to the quality of the screenshots 
 we know and love on Gamespot.
  
  Overall, this an extremely worthy successor to an already legendary online franchise. Buy it as 
 soon as possible.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxthirteen
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 13, 2005 3:08 am PT
Review:  Ok, so you played the hell out of Battfield 1942, so much in fact, that you lost any intrest in 
 the game. With it's rough graphical outlay and special educational Bots, it just didn't hold your 
 attention for long.. then bam. Like a long grain 7.62mm round thumping into your cerebial lobe, 
 EAGames releases Battfield 2. 
  The graphic engine is completely superior to it's older brother, with high def texturing and high 
 resulution rendered back and foregrounds, all accented by smooth and detailed sprites. Sounds wickedly 
 realistic, weapons completely real, and the bloodlust times 10.. Battfield 2 puts 1942 in the grave. 
 
  A complex and addictive Multiplayer system has be incorporated into the game, with a rank and award 
 system, along with plenty of unlockable special weapon kits. 
  If you have time to kill, or love to spend your time killing, don't hesitate to add this one to 
 your shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FinalJoker
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2005 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I love how well they made Battlefield 2. There's always tons of people online playing. I really 
 liked when they added Wake Island in patch 1.03. But i got to admit the game has lost some of its 
 fun factor as of recently. I got busy with college and just a few weeks ago got back to playing 
 and I found out that some people have managed to find a hack in which you become bullet proof. 
 I've already contacted EA about it and they replied with a denial about the current hacking. But 
 I still enjoy the game on servers where they still have active admins. I suggest this game to anyone 
 who likes modern combat FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylemack14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 11, 2005 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for about 2 months. Very addictive gameplay. The graphics were great, 
 but not as top notch as Half-Life 2. Everything else is basically perfect. You can play the Americans, 
 Middle East Coalition, or the Chinese. Each team with its special abilities, you can fly airplanes, 
 tanks, helicopters, vehicles, and boats. The sound is pretty good. The value of this game is defintely 
 a ten. The gameplay is just about perfect. Once you go online, another world of trials opens. It 
 will take only a few kills to advance to the next rank, but once you reach the third rank, it will 
 take a buttload of kills until you advance to the next rank. I think it will be a while before 
 another game comes out of this caliber. Battlefield 2 is definitely one of the best games I have 
 ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KnowledgeOrCred
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 11, 2005 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game produces more memorable moments than any game to date. 
  Blowing up a bridge as your enemy drives over it, knife fights on the damn, stealing an enimies 
 vehicle as they capture you flag, being the last one left and finally capturing the spawn point. 
 
  It's a whole experience, and its well balanced too, there are medics (like me) snipers, assualt, 
 special forces, anti tank, all to make it feel so much like a real battle. 
  The strategies are really involving, but what you may find annoying on some maps is that the aircraft 
 dominate (kubra damn) while on others they get slaughtered. 
  Flying is challenging but easy to pick up, i prefer to be a foot soldier. 
  One thing that this 
 game is is satisfying, you can kill someone and feel like you have made a difference, the feeling 
 that you beat and are better than several people never wears off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobmartin99
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2005 6:27 am PT
Review:  i cant believe the grafics. since i got my g-force 7200 i can put all of the settings on high. 
 unbeilievable gameplay. some of the most hilarius ways to fragg people that ive ever seen in a 
 fps. sounds amazing too. you can hear evry thing around you. the only problem is i had to buy the 
 gforce 7200 becuase i only had a 6200. other than that its amizing. 10 out of 10. compared to other 
 fps this game kicks ass. once again the most amizing pc fps ive seen yet. not far from being better 
 than halo or halo 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steve_dude10
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 10, 2005 6:33 pm PT
Review:  The Good;
  
  -It can be a blast when your playing well, even if your not, it can still be funny and often times 
 ill laugh at how I end up dieing
  -Squad system is the best team system i've seen in a game to date
  -Built in VOIP
  -Fast gameplay, 
 that doesn't take it's self seriously
  -Nothing in this game is too over powering
  -RPG type elements 
  -Has it's moment that you'll remeber
  -Awesome graphics 
  -Tons of mods 
 that are being made
  
  The Bad;
  
  -People complain about it A LOT because it isn't what they wanted...
  -Can get you angery if 
 your having problems
  -Steep requirements
  -If you have a crappy team or you can't get a squad going, it can sometimes be a drag...
  -Bugs, 
 Crashes, Graphic Glitches (with my computer anyways)
  -Some cheap elements that people take advantage of
  
  Final Verdict;
  
  This is an amazing 
 game. Looks great and when you get into it, it's a blast. Don't miss out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grubes91
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2005 2:57 pm PT
Review:  If you like shooters then you should go for Battlefield 2 and soon their new game Battlefield 2: 
 Special Forces. Get it! It is the best game out thier right now for First Person Shooters (FPS) . 
 You can FLY AIRPLANES, YOU CAN DRIVE LAND AND BOAT VEHICLES. Also if you are the Commander you 
 can send (UAV) to see the enemy also you can scan the place, send a supplies drop, and also Send 
 ARTILLERY at where they ask but use it wisely because it takes a long time to use it again. But 
 if your an xbox fan sorry to say but the PC Version of Battlefield 2: Modern Combat sucks. it is 
 nothing like the PC Version and it runes the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vectorz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 10, 2005 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 for the avid multiplayer gamer is a great buy. 
  
  Graphics are just at the right level for hi speed online gameplay, with the right tweaks from a 
 good online guide you can get this puppy running smoothly with out sacrafising visual quality. 
 
  
  Sounds, in my opininon are an 8 out of 10. Bullet sounds could be sharper and a little more edgy, 
 but they pulled off what most gamers expected. For people who know what it really sounds like, 
 this is just another holywood vision. Good none the less. 
  
  Gameplay, this is the most important factor of any game I beleive. And this is what makes Battlefield 
 2 a 9.6 weather you like to fly fast or slow, sneak behind enamy lines as a lone wolf or play in 
 a group to capture flags, EA has delivered yet again. 
  
  Tilt - theres not much difference from 1942 but with good reason, probably for the same reason 
 Counter-Strike hasnt changed much from 1.6 to source.
  
  Value - I've spent more hours playing this than I have doing what I need to... 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anDy-PeNGuiN
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 10, 2005 11:46 am PT
Review:  This Game Is AMAZING! Fantastic multiplayer action over absolutly HUGE battlefields makes this 
 game the must have for all PC gamers today. Based on 3 Teams. The Americans, Chinese and MEC [Middle 
 eastern collition]
  
  You can ride In an array of fantastic vehicles, Helicopters, Jets, Tanks, Buggies and APCs all 
 to include. The excellent feature of this game is the Points system. This game saves like EVERYTHING 
 you have done, from accuracy to amount of knife kills. You can earn different ranks, badges, ribbons 
 and medals.
  
  You can join squads and move around as a team trying to take out the spawnpoints for your team 
 to spawn. This game plays at its best when you are playing as a tight team. Apart from the gameplay 
 being great, the Visuals and sound are even better!
  
  I absolutly love this Game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bongadadu
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 10, 2005 10:14 am PT
Review:  This game is really worth its money. You buy this game, garantie your money wont go wasted. If 
 are fans of fps then this game is a must in ur collection. It isnt like battlefield 1942 at all 
 but it is a mix of elements of all other fps games combined into one to give the ultimate exprience. 
 No matter what game u used to play before ul love this better. The cool part is the online ranks 
 system which is an awesome feature in this game, you will never get board of playing online, there 
 will be always something new or those "sort of the momentthings happening in everymatch, an 
 if u want to brag these "unbelivable" moments of glory , you can because battlerecorder makes this 
 possible. 
  However the only downside of this game is that it takes a long time to load a map (will be probably 
 fixed in upcoming patches) and will require a high end system but still its a game of epic fun.
 
  BUY IT NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinox
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 10, 2005 7:58 am PT
Review:  The best modern shooter I have seen in my whole life. Except for the tiny singleplayer maps it 
 is almost perfect. There are a lot of different and especially cool weapons. The whole commander 
 thing is wonderful: "My granny can do better!" is one of the things he can shout to lazy squads. 
 There are much different vehicles, from speedy desert buggy's to heavy armored tanks. Multiplayer 
 is even cooler, 64 players can fight each other in gigantic maps. The action is unbelievable, because 
 of beautiful graphics. The gameplay is just brilliant, I really just love it. I give it a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hideandfreak
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 10, 2005 2:21 am PT
Review:  It's a good game, but will be much better when a dedicated mod team releases a full conversion 
 that can be cared for and updated more frequently. It's fun to see how players will exploit the 
 game, such as the helicopter flag captures, but it kind of takes away from the gameplay once the 
 exploit is prooven to be broken and not just good strategy. I could say a lot but I pretty much 
 agree with the bulk of the players out there. If you liked BF 1942 or DC then you will find a lot 
 to like about BF2. If you didn't like those games then you shouldn't be reading this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHILLYSKILLA
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2005 5:47 pm PT
Review:  this is the best so far of graphic pc games WOOOOOOOOOOOW!!
  if anyone onws a good pc go get this you will be so amazed you will pee you pants from the graphics 
 the gamply and everthig elss involed on on it i mean damn!! and the gampplay dont even get me started 
 especially with all the guns and all the vehicls. i think ea did a good job of makin this game 
 this is probably one of the best war fighting games out there. it should be a 10 from all the reviews 
 these gamers dont know what there talkin about. what else can I say the battlefield 2 on the platform 
 versoins are good to. I give a standing ovation for ea. good JOB! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lehom
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 9, 2005 7:28 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is an incredible game that seamlessly combines gunplay and vehicles with a realistic 
 aiming and damge system. Battlefield 2 makes you feel as though you are a soldier who is part of 
 something much bigger.
  
  Graphically Battlefield 2 is supereb on high reoslution the game looks amazing and realistic. All 
 the animations look realistic and the ragdoll physics system renders the death of your enemy realistically. 
 Vehicles shoot and explode in glorious flames and shrapnel. Your fellow companions look amazing 
 as you run and shoot along side them.
  
  Sound wise battlefield 2 is impressive. Every weapon sound is realisitic and the wizzing of bullets 
 by you head sounds realistic. When your bullet hits a concrete it souinds different when you hit 
 tin. The sound accuratley caputres the intensity and volume of a real gun being fired. The jsts 
 screak as theyt fly across the sky and the helicopters hum to the glroius tune of roaters slicing 
 through the air. Even the languages of the different armies are accurate.
  
  Gameplay is incredible. You feel like one small part of the battlefield but you know you are part 
 of something bigger. When you form up in a squad with your friends the feeling is just incredible. 
 Also the Persistenet character creation system encourages you to play a supportive role and encourages 
 teamplay which is fun for all.
  
  There are two problems with BF2. The first being the browser. It has few options and it can be 
 incredibly annoying to find a game. Sometimes when you log on you may be forced into finding a 
 game which can take a good five minutes. The other problem is that BF2 requires a graphics card 
 on roids. My new nvidia 6600 was able to run it but I wouldn't try this game on a computer that 
 is more than two years old.
  
  If your computer cannot run this game, then buy a new computer and play this game. It will be worth 
 the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TJM_717
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 8, 2005 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Amazing. If I had to use one word to describe Battlefield 2, that would be the right word. Battlefield 
 2 consists of one bad side, and one good side, but since the good side is so good, you forget about 
 the bad side all-together. The bad side of Battlefield 2 is the Single-Player, which is basically 
 the multi-player, with not-so-intelligent bots. The good side of course, is the Multi-Player. Battlefield 
 2 ships out with 3 armies, a United States army, a Middle Eastern Army, and a Korean Army. Each 
 army has you choose from a variety of weapon kits, including a Sniper kit, a Medic kit, an Assault 
 Kit, and a few others common to the battlefield series. There is a good amount of maps, about 12. 
 There is one game-type, but it does offer a variety of gameplay experiences. This one gametype 
 is Conquest, which maps out a number of bases depending on the map size, which adjusts to the amount 
 of players in your particular server, gives each team 1-3 bases, and there's a couple bases in 
 the middle. Each team starts off with a number ofTickets ". To reduce these tickets, control 
 more bases, and kill more people. Whoever has more tickets when the time runs out, or whoever wipes 
 out the other teams' tickets, wins.
  
  Stunning, is the word I would use for graphics. Battlefield 2 brings some of the best graphics 
 ever to appear on your monitor. It's pretty amazing how the graphics are so nice, and the details 
 are so nice, that the levels can be so large, and so many people can be fighting in them. Explosions 
 are realistic, and the blurry effect that goes on when artillary is dropping almost on top of you, 
 makes the game so intense, that you almost forget your playing a video game, the experience is 
 one of the most unique i've gotten from a shooter.
  
  Battlefield 2 also lets you do almost everything you would have to do in a battle. There's a large 
 variety of vehicles, the usual tanks, trucks, and boats, and also, Battlefield 2 brings other vehicles 
 like Helicopters, Jets, and even small Buggys with turrets. There's also small things like a parachute, 
 ladders on almost every building, and large cranes that overlook the entire map., that make Battlefield 
 2 such a fun experience.
  
  There isn't much that's bad about Battlefield 2. Basically, Battlefield 2 is a demanding game. 
 Unless you have a higher end Graphics Card, then you might not be getting the same experience as 
 one with a high end card would. You'll need a minimum of 512 MB of RAM to even attempt to play 
 it. I've played Battlefield 2 on a computer with a GeForce FX 5500 card, and 512 of RAM, which 
 played it alright, but lighting and textures were dull and aa little unimpressive. I also played 
 it on a computer with 1 GB of RAM, and a GeForce 6800 Ultra. The game played perfectly, and the 
 graphics, lighting, and textures were beautiful. So if you have an alright PC, look forward to 
 forking out a little more for maybe an updated Video Card, or some more RAM. There's also a lack 
 of a buddy list in Battlefield, which makes playing with your friends a little more difficult than 
 you would on Xbox Live.
  
  The addition of an Expansion Pack, Battlefield 2: Special Forces, Battlefield 2 is easily one of 
 the best Multi-Player shooters ever to hit the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hilsden9
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 8, 2005 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 was the first of the series I played, and multiplayer bugs aside, this game is a 
 very pleasureable team shooter, and incorporates skill over raw fire power.
  
  Graphically BF:2 is awesome, even with the graphics on low, its still enjoyable, and if your lucky 
 enough to play it with a high spec computer, then I envy you.
  
  The character class system is also a neat touch, although weapon variety is missed, and I feel 
 you should be able to pick up enemy weapons of the same character class.
  
  Best bit for me is the medal and awards system, earning respect online through attaining every 
 medal and ribbon possible makes the game really fun.
  
  Being a medic is also neat as you have shock pads, very nice touch, wanted to see that for some 
 time now.
  
  Vehicles are awesome, I adore the Black Hawk, awesome, parachuting out of one makes for a great 
 laugh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batledroid321
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 8, 2005 11:32 am PT
Review:  I found that the single player was reallly great. The AI was spectacular and the weapons ran pretty 
 smooth. Also I like that the Chinese are there instead of two factions. The US possess acurate 
 weapons in the game while the Chinese possess thir numbers and middle east usually use plenty of 
 vehicles. The only downer is the high video requirments. To make it look beautiful you need a Nvidia 
 geforce 6800 or 7800 with 256mb of video memory. But over all it is a great game. Also its expansion 
 Battlefield 2: Special Forces comes out November 21, 2005. The first level I reccommend for battlefield 
 2 is the power plant where US and Chinese forces are going at it. For some reason though the US 
 is harder to fight than the Chinese. The US like never misses it seems, which makes it slightly 
 unfair for middle east and chinese teams. But, hey at least its accurate. The sound is good with 
 proper hardware, but sounds pretty good with older sound cards. The game is very addicting even 
 in single player, the levels never seem quite the same each time. With the proper hardware this 
 baby rules. With older hardware you get a pretty choppy framerate though. But eather way it is 
 still great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnakeVT101
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is easily one of the best FPS' ever created. It combines all of the elements of strategy 
 and warfare into a solid gaming title for the PC. If you are a big fan of modern FPS games, then 
 Battlefield 2 is a must. The multiplayer is by far the best feature, and the graphics are excellent. 
 Battlefield 2 is an instant classic. Even though the system requirements are slightly high, if 
 you are running a decent rig you will be able to play this game fine. Even on the lowest settings 
 the game is still very fun. Single player is not all that great but once you move onto the online 
 play Battlefield 2 becomes so addictive that you will be stuck playing it hours at a time. The 
 new BFHQ feature lets you look at and compare your stats with others in the BF 2 community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heretic1987
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 8, 2005 6:39 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is solid, only when you play Multiplayer. If you play the singleplayer then you are 
 very overpowing and can win easily, not much fun in Singleplayer. But if you can get on a good 
 server then it is a great time to play. There are all kinds of features that let you customize 
 your online experience. Graphics aren't the best but that's not what it is about, it's about the 
 gameplay. Might take a couple of games to get use to the controls and what to do, but after you 
 learn it's a great game. The different types of kits always gives you a different feel of gameplay 
 each time you play, so you never now how exactly the game will play out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ontain
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 7, 2005 8:08 am PT
Review:  Amazing again. It's hard to say what's the best part of BF2. everything you loved about the first 
 is still in this one with the addition of other things like squads. this gives the game more a 
 sence of what true war is like. instead of just guys working alone at the same goal you work together 
 better because you can see your teammates and the commands they give much easier.
  
  if you liked the first game this is a must. the added graphics and game options are well worth 
 the upgrade unlike many sports sequals. You'll need a good PC to run it well though so look at 
 the system reqs
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicolas1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 20, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  BF2 has an good planned MULTIPLAYER and good damn graphics. But that's all. The game is bugged 
 and many systems don't support it. It's updates are too big and you will need hours to download 
 it (unless you have 2-1 Mb/s) !!!! Most possible you will be the one of thousands that try to get 
 the game to work, if you buy it... I strongly NOT reccomend this if you want to have nice multiplayer. 
 Ah and the updates dont help a lot. I suggest you just wait till good new updates come up that 
 fix up everything. But i dont want to hold the game back it has good gameplay or at least it seems 
 so without the bugs!
  
  *Edit* Ok the game started to get better. It still isnt perfect but many issues are fixed. It's 
 a nice game now. Awsome graphics and gameplay some bugs remaining but its ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boxspartan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 6, 2005 8:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game all around and if you like shooters at all and have well oiled PC you have 
 to pick Battlefield 2 up. This being my first jump at the Battlefield series I am lovin everything 
 I see and hope to pick up more great games in the future line-up. All that said it did have a few 
 set backs with multiple glitches that EA quickly fixed up with patch after patch. 
  
  There are multiple classes to the game from a medic all the way to special forces. The gameplay 
 stays constently addictive with all sorts of terrain and urban warfare the game sucks you in. Excellent 
 stat tracking on the main menu as well as rankings and upgrades that adds a truely spectacular 
 RPG eliment to the game. 
  
  This is a completely emersive multiplayer game. If your not into online, well you should be but 
 I did try out the single player that offers a great taste of what online players are digging into. 
 The single player mode puts out some great AI but its nothing like the in your face trash talkin 
 you can do online. 
  
  My final verdict BUY IT I bought a new graphics card and CD-ROM drive just for this game it was 
 well worth is get the :#$&* (@! game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhankeydinks
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 6, 2005 9:40 am PT
Review:  like a drug this game takes you into global conflicts with different armies such as the USMC and 
 MEC. One of the first things you want to before you get online and play with people on servers 
 is play a couple of single player rounds to get your skill up. guns are fairly balanced with a 
 definite versatility to some and unique. While you do need a fairly powerful pc to run this game 
 it will be worth it you will be logging hours in no time and gaining ranks online. 
  
  Now that the informal introduction has been made i will talk sound. The background music to the 
 main menu and loading screens will put you into the helms of the middle east. If they had a soundtrack 
 for this game i would buy it. One of the best things though is how real the guns and other weapons 
 in the game are. When you fire an AK is sounds like an AK. Thats really all i have to say for 
 sound, its superb, great, and very intense and involves you more in the action.
  
  The Graphics in this game are far better than its predecessors such as BFV of BF1942. While I did 
 own all of them at one time the graphics in this has surpassed an even palpable surprise. All the 
 player models are done in high res textures and the spanning environments of the battlefield make 
 sure there is never a dull texture on anything. Literally everything looks the way it should.
 
  
  The Game play of course is solid in both online and offline play. You can have fun with either. 
 The Physics in the game are of course havoc engine but work wonderfully. Cause when people die 
 to fly up if it by artillery or be pushed backwards if hit by the shotgun. Explosions in the gamer 
 are wonderfully illustrated you will have fun seeing parts of vehicles and builds go places when 
 you denote it with some C4.
  
  This game is an highly addictive game kind of like ecstasy in Britain. You will have hours of fun 
 with this, and almost never get bored. With everything solid except for the in game browser being 
 a little clunky and mine has quit working but besides that this game is wonderful. Everything done 
 to an extent of persistent tranquility. Even if that tranquility involves killing someone.
  
  This Game was reviewed on the following PC at Maxed out Settings around 60 to 100FPS.
  
 
  1gb of RAM
  X800 ATI GPU
  250GB Hard Drive
  2.8 Dual Core Intel
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alien_tomatoes
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 6, 2005 6:53 am PT
Review:  There were no any A. I in the multi player map which usually will make it more interesting and worth 
 playing. Most of the multi player maps are huge and a lot of action may happen if A. I being added. 
 Single maps just too small and lack of transportation to drive on. I hope there will mod to support 
 A. I in the multi player game. If you keep playing on the single game, you will get boring and fell 
 asleep with all the same maps over and over again. Multi player maps with A. I also may help some 
 individual to practice on particular maps before play it online. Practice make prefect!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rampee26
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 6, 2005 12:03 am PT
Review:  Well the game is fun, WHEN IT WORKS!!! The game crashes ALL the time, on large varieties of systems. 
 As well as extreme disconnect problems. I cant stand the support at EA, no doubt its been contracted 
 out to some overseas country. 
  
  The bugs remind me of Command and Conquer Generals. FIX THE GAME BEFORE YOU SHIP IT!!
  
  I 
 will not buy another EA game period and I encourage you to do the same.
  
  BE JQJNU RNE KJFND KJNWJ NCED NEJN DKND KJND KEJN DJEN DKJE NDEN DEND QEND KJQE NDKE NDKE NKDJ 
 NQKJ DNEK NDKE NDKE JNDKQ ENDKQ ENDKJ QNDKJ ENDKQ NDKQN DKQND QJEND NDKJQ NDK QN DQK N DKQN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7Level
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Sure, the gameplay and graphics are ok, but if you hate your Computer randomly shutting off, then 
 do not buy this game. But if you put aside the bugs, it is pretty fun (if you can actually get 
 into a server or are patient enough to go through the load times) The foot battles are not very 
 realistic, considering the fact that the AI is so stupid they don't know how to run. Flying in 
 planes is fun, along with helicopters. All of the tanks are the same and are very SLOW. Although 
 airplaines are fun, you can't fly over a base with out hearing an annoying beeping sound.
  
  
  BF2= glitch glitch glitch glitch glitch glitch glitch glitch glitch glitch glitch!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 04perik1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 5, 2005 9:12 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is an excellent game despite some annoying faults. dICe has created a compelling 
 game. The lingering audio and sharp visuals really make you feel as though you are actually fighting 
 in a real battle. They've also managed to create a truely tream orinentated experience through 
 the addition of VoIP, squads and squad leader spawnpoints. Being able to talk to your team mates 
 enhances the feeling of being part of a team. The kits are mostly balanced; with the more traditional 
 powerful kits, such as sniper, not having body armour or frag grenades. The various armies do not 
 greatly effect the power of the kits, the only real expection would be sniper, as the role played 
 changes greatly due to the increase in rates with Mec and Chinese rifles in comparison to the US 
 rifle (turning the role of sniper from supportive to offensive) . The only faults I can find is 
 that even with a pc with a gig of RAM, there still is slow down. You would need a very powerful 
 pc to be able to fully enjoy Battlefield 2. It isn't a recommended single player experience, I 
 would only play single player to sharpen up skills or if there are no good servers to play on. 
 The vehicles are good but in some cases (such as the helicopter) hard to control. If you do own 
 a pc I would recomend that you get this game now and experience a brilliant game that improves 
 greatly on the previous battlefield games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_hodges
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 4, 2005 5:50 pm PT
Review:  At this point there's no point in writing a detailed review since there are plenty to read from 
 but I will highlights some of the features:
  
  Outstanding overall gameplay. BF2 is a great mix of realism and arcade. Very addicting!!! A couple 
 have patches have come out since it's initial release. Most of the maps are very balanced. You 
 can get owned by air superiority very easy on the more open, flat maps. It can be very face paced 
 and slow to a crawl sometimes. Definitely keeps you on the edge of your seat. A global ranking 
 system lets you check your stats with others around the world. 
  
  Graphics on a high end system are superb. It does a pretty good job of catering to the lower end 
 systems but takes away all of the eye candy.
  
  Sound is phenominal. Get at least a Sound Blaster Audigy 2 and crank it.
  
  Overall, BF2 is 
 one of the best games of the year perhaps in a long long time. BF2: Special Forces expansion is 
 due to come out in a few weeks, adding more maps and countries. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconEye_basic
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2005 9:35 am PT
Review:  WARNING: This review biased because the game just owns!
  
  I'm fussy in my gaming and this game does what it should:
  
  1) Encourages team work.
  2) 
 Drops you into the action. No fuss, no muss.
  3) Gives you easy to use, simple controls to do your job.
  4) Clearly points out the enemy!
 
  
  WARNING2: Should you encounter FalconsWing in your conquests, fear not, his aim is poor. : (
 
  
  Even playing a support class in this game is fun and exciting. You don't have to be a crack shot; 
 stay back, keep your lines healed and supplied and call out targets. There is room for you here 
 too!
  
  None of this should come as a surprise, because the previous game did all this as well during its 
 time.
  
  But the additions and modernizations for this round work.
  
  Squads rock! Up to 6 team members can join in the same squad; a good number for a single force. 
 If you don't join/create one as soon as you jump into the game, you're selling both your team and 
 yourself short. Being a member allows you to spawn back in on your leader's position, for instant 
 action/support. Requesting artillery, support, or enemy locations through the chain of command 
 is a rush. A team that works from commander to grunt is an amazing experience.
  
  Native support for voice chat! It's just there and it's limited to your squad level. Members can 
 talk to their own members and leader, leaders can talk to their members and commander, and the 
 command talks to all squad leaders. And it works.
  
  Want to play solo? Create your own squad, play as Special Forces and take special orders straight 
 from your commander.
  
  Vehicles are revamped. And well. They also emit a repair/heal aura if an Engineer/Medic is riding 
 within them. Very nice touch and encourages squads to stay together and varied in class
  
  WARNING3: Do not enter any aircraft piloted by FalconsWing until further notice (sorry guys) .
 
  
  Negatives:
  1) A good pilot will own a map. Learn to take them down, work as a team with some AA!
  2) System 
 requirements are steep for the bells and whistles. The good part is you don't need them to play 
 and love it.
  3) It is _still_ an FPS. Tactical play is important, but you still get the odd bunny-jumper (though 
 they die quickly here) and you have to think quick. Shoot, run, or hide; but don't just stand there! 
 If you absolutely hate FPS games, you may not find anything here.
  
  _________________________
  
  Overall, I'd say this game was built for me! If it was built for 
 you too, I'll see you on the Battlefield.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireSpliteR2y9
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is so great and there is always something for you to do. The best part of it is the multiplayer. 
 Playing online with a bunch of real people is always seemed fun. This game has tons of vehicles 
 boats, jeeps, tanks, ani-aircraft, helicopters, jets, and many more. Also as you progress through 
 the game you unlock better weapons. There are seven different jobs special-ops, sniper, assult, 
 enginear, medic, anti-tank, and support. There are 12 levels that come in three different sizes 
 each 16, 32, and 64 players. There are very few problems but they are there. You don't have a friends 
 list making it hard to track down people, and there are a few glitches here and there but nothing 
 serious. Singleplayer is fun but you can only play 16 player levels and arn't worth it if you are 
 able to play online multiplayer. The graphics are realy good and the sound is realistic. The gameplay 
 is really awsome and very addicting. Also this game is worth every penny you pay to buy it. It 
 think that this has to be one of the best games of this year and shouldn't be overlooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erikkii
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I fist start with my army games background..... 
  
  I've played deltaforce from the beginning i've played through all the new ad-ons and further versions. 
 But i always had the idea that i was superman and all just some little rats.
  
  Well with this game i never had the feeling of walking around with a red cape and an S on my chest. 
 I't feld real like when you got shot your really dead and have to start over and grab a tank or 
 a plain or a buggy or much more and drive to the war and got shot again and again you're getting 
 responend but now there are no Vehicels or Plains so you have to walk and it looks endless. and 
 then somebody behinds you sounds his horn from his car and you get in the gunnerseat and you kill 
 everybody in your path and get the flag ........... so now you can respawn from that point........
 
  
  This is a short Summary of battlefield 2 online mutliplayer mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cimmy2005
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2005 11:45 am PT
Review:  This game has great presentation; good graphics, decent AI, plenty of action. However there are 
 drawbacks. Only one game mode! (shocking) what ever happened to CTF or Assault? Or how about "Kill 
 the Commander", match ends when the commander is found and taken out, even though I made it up, 
 BF2 could of used something like this along side conquest. Another downside, being offline you 
 can only have 16 bots, even though BF2 was designed for 64 players. There are even some maps that 
 dont even take bots, and the only way to play them is if your on line. What would of been better 
 is if hosts could put bots in thier maps until actual people joined. And last on the bad side is 
 having a account at EA to play online. for some reason every once in a while EA lost my account 
 and I would have to sign up again. 
  Enough with the bad, the good is that the over all experience was very satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battleroyal
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 3, 2005 9:54 am PT
Review:  This is the best modern war game that i played this year its totally amazing what you can do all 
 the vehicles are cool maps are great and the weapons are also cool.
  The sound is also one of the best new features everything sounds realistic and feels realistic.
 
  The only bad thing is the option that you can not change the maps in singleplayer to 32 and 64 
 players.
  The build in headset option is also a great new addition players can speak to eachother without 
 having to run a program like teamspeak or x-fire the online rankings are also worked out nice the 
 secondary weapons that you can choose as a bonus are also great especially the secondary sniperrifle. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theRunninGamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 3, 2005 2:28 am PT
Review:  If you liked Battlefield 1942, youll definitely feel right at home in Battlefield 2. If you havent 
 played Battlefield 1942, or if you played it and didnt like it, youll still probably find something 
 to like about Battlefield 2.
  Battlefield 2 combines elements of strategy with gorgeous first-person graphics, a realistic physics 
 engine, and a slew of land, sea, and air vehicles, not to mention more than a few different guns 
 to play with. The new squad mechanics allow for players to communicate and organize efficiently, 
 and talk to each other with the ease of in-game VOIP. Even in enormous 32 on 32 player battles, 
 voice communication is a snap, with the game only allowing you to communicate with your own squad, 
 and the battlefield commander, if youre the leader of a squad.
  The Battlefield 2 commander mode was a pleasant addition to make the spacious maps more manageable 
 by a unifying leader (if youre lucky enough to find one) . I had hoped that the commander mode 
 would offer a more involved interface than it did, as its quite similar to the overview modes 
 that every other player can use. The inclusion of artillery, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV  used 
 for scouting out the locations of enemy troops) and supply drops adds another interesting strategic 
 element to the reused Battlefield recipe.
  The quick voice menu system is another interesting development in the series lifetime, as it allows 
 you to tell your fellow teammates important information like troop movements with a simple button 
 combination. Sometimes I find myself wishing for the traditional menu-style voice communication 
 system, but like many games, there are some things that you just have to get used to.
  As with any game, Battlefield 2 comes with its share of problems and grievances, though only few 
 people actually have problems that substantially affect their gameplay. The controls are somewhat 
 difficult to remap, should you take to a non-default control style, and the in-game server browser 
 can be quite a drag, though indeed the patches released addressed some problems.
  Battlefield 2 has a limited multiplayer scope, as there is still only one game mode, and no others 
 have been announced for addition. Though there are not as many maps as other multiplayer games, 
 the sheer size of the map usually greatly compensates. Each map also comes in three variations 
 of size, 16-player, 32-player, and 64-player, which allows smaller games to play more like a large 
 game by decreasing the size of the map available to the players. This is a notable feature, but 
 more maps in the future will raise the overall quality of the game significantly. Already, the 
 developers have released a remake of the Wake Island map that was popularized by Battlefield 1942, 
 hopefully with more in planning.
  There is so much to do in Battlefield 2, even though a new multiplayer mode couldnt have hurt, 
 and so many different ways to do it. All in all, Battlefield 2 is a great game as it stands, though 
 it still holds the potential to be one of the best games of this generation (with improvement, 
 of course) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathlordii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2005 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Nothing beats launching a rocket at a blackhawk and watching it crash into a tree from the startlement. 
 The graphics are simply amazing. the sound, incredible and the gamplay, superb. I recomend this 
 game to anyone with even the a small interest in shooting things. although the team play isnt usualy 
 that as it could be, this is mostly because most people would rather just run at eachother shooting 
 wildly untill they die, i would rate this game a 9.5/10 because of the thought and mind power put 
 into this game to make it what it is.
  
  P. S. I cant stop flying those dang air vehicles, i love crushing people as i land on them while 
 flying in my blackhawk or just bombing the hell out of a single target for an hour. :) LOL this 
 game sure is a heck of alot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoxivVixon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 9:56 pm PT
Review:  With some minor bugs, the game is one of the most complete and incredible war games to play. A 
 great multiplayer platform where you can really play in team. The rank system and the rewards are 
 very cool, it's a kind of encourage to play more and more and more...
  
  Besides the infantry you can play with a lot of vehicles, so the game is not boring like other 
 FPS, i you are tired of infantry, well, go kill some with an AP, or a TANK. In most cases the vehicles 
 are easy to drive or pilot, but in the Air Vehicles i recommend the Joystick, because with the 
 mouse it's hard to play.
  
  In graphics BF2 is great, good details, some people says that they miss the blood in the game, 
 i don't think it's important, the game don't have blood, but the movement of a body when u die 
 is very real. The maps are very detailed, with great buildings and towers... etc.. etc...
  
  Gameplay, i played Q3A Urban Terror for years, and what i can say is that i didn't noticed a big 
 diference from UrT to BF2, so for me was cool. The conquest mode, the only mode in BF2, is enough, 
 it works like CTF and a tikek system, so the team that own more bases looses more tickets. Tickets 
 are player respawns.
  
  The sound is very good, all the effects and the weapons are very real as the vehicles.
  
  For 
 me was a great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raptor123
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 2, 2005 2:57 pm PT
Review:  The long awaited Battlefield 2 was, in my oppinion, an amazing achivement. It's wonderful, up-to-64-people 
 multy-player insanity and still mind blowing graphics, sound, and (sometimes not so wonderful) 
 framerate. And despite being a technical breakthrough, its just an amazing game overall. It's extremely 
 realistic, so you must use teamwork at all times just to stay alive let alone win each match. Straying 
 from orders can even get you punished by your squad leaders and commanders, another awsome new 
 addition to the game. And VoiP makes it feel like you are playing an Xbox with a keyboard.
  However, I have an Alienware so I can experience the full thing. If you don't have an overclocked 
 gaming machine of any sort, you will not only feel deprived of this masterpiece, odds are you won't 
 even be able to play it! Also, the insane number of players alone make servers a little buggy, 
 even if they are multi-thousand dollor server computers.
  Overall, I say that anyone with a super-powered gaming machine in thier room who loves shooters 
 (you wouldn't have that computer if you didn't, now would you :P) should go out and get this game 
 right this second. Everyone else should definately consider it, but should check thier specs first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmiSS
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 4:43 pm PT
Review:  BF2 was long awaited, seeing that BF: V was good but left a lot of room for improvement. The team 
 work that takes place in BF2 is quite nice. Its very pleasing to me to play a game that people 
 listen to you and work together. Other games try to get players to work together but failed. In 
 BF2 the fans wanna work togeather. Its great! The gameplay is very well balanced, players can take 
 on vehicles with ground weapons and stand a chance (not much but some) . the on foot battles are 
 just as good as the ground battles. Just as the ground battles are just as good as the air battles, 
 and sea battles. All the diffrent aspects of the game are balanced. Which make it very likable 
 to many diffrent types of gamers. The air sim poeple get a kick out of it, FPS people like it, 
 so on and so forth. The gameplay is well rounded and open, giving the player alot of room to deal 
 with problems with the skills of their squad.
  Gfxs in BF2 are pretty good. Not ground breaking but good enough to hold its own with the rest 
 of the pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arrowhead927
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 1, 2005 9:25 am PT
Review:  Bf2 is good for it's high graphics and gameplay but theres bugs lurking inside in it deepest depths 
 waiting to destroy someones gameplay. The game needs too much ram , processor and memory meaning 
 it doesn't play very good on old systems Get ready to upgrade frequently with this game.
  
  With more and more of these games being made your computer will become slower and slower meaning 
 more money will be spent.
  
  If you look on most forums you will see lists upon lists of errors, problems with the servers and 
 game, it's latest patches have not changed it much, there size have made it even slower and longer 
 to reinstall if damaged.
  
  There mod editor beta was just the same needing lots of ram causing lots of problems and disappointment
 
  
  The game has only around 6 single player maps including:
  dalian plant
  karkand
  wake island (multiplayer only)
  etc
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: callum_shand
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2005 2:27 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 was a bit of a disappointment to me, because i was expecting a fun and exciting game. 
 instead, i got a game that was ruined by vehicles and demanded high specs from my computer. sure, 
 the game was fun when you get into the game and get a few kills, but when your trying to have an 
 old fashion shoot'em up war game, you don't want to have tanks and vehicles and planes everywhere 
 you look. if you do have a high spec pc, then you'll see how good the graphics are. there is a 
 lot of detail in all the environment and the guns, so much so, that you might buy the game just 
 for the graphics. overall, i think the game is OK, but the vehicles need to be less important, 
 and finding a server should be easier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ned101
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 31, 2005 11:37 am PT
Review:  They did a good job with this one. I love the commander feature, its something that has not been 
 done before in any first-person shooter. The squad leaders also encourage teaming up instead of 
 Lone-Wolfing. I also like how they completely balanced out the load-outs; there is no favored weapon. 
 Surprisingly the Sniper is not even favored because if somebody spots you, you will be shot or 
 blown up, or the commander will spot you from satellite. Though this game did have some rough spots, 
 like long loads and the server is pretty stubborn. They did a good job overall in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ag1002
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 30, 2005 11:14 pm PT
Review:  I have played through Battlefield 1942-Road to Rome, Secret Weapons of WWII, and Vietnam. Now the 
 thing I thought was shaky in all of those, would have to be the actual combat between players. 
 I found when you ran out there, and bumped into an enemy, you both started shooting eachother, 
 and it seemed there was no skill needed. It was whoever shot first. The guns felt like weak little 
 toys. 
  
  Now in Battlefield 2, the weapons all feel just right. The vehicular combat is so much fun, all 
 the vehicles have good control, nothing feels loose. 
  There are still some little hicups here and there that can be frustrating. The problems don't occur 
 with the game, but with the players. When playing with up to 63 other real people in a match, there 
 is always one guy who isn't sure what the hell is going on. It can sometimes be frustrating because 
 you rely so much on eachother. This game is balanced nicely. Each vehicle and class has a counter 
 to it. If you are Anti-Tank, vehicles fear you, but infantry can waste you. You do get armor though, 
 so you have a good chance to take cover. If you are a medic, you can do good damage, but you take 
 hard damage. You can heal others and yourself, and revive fallen teamates, but if you see another 
 vehicle you get out of there! 
  Gameplay= 9/10 
  
  Next up, the graphics. Battlefield 2 calls for a computer a few years old at the most. If you have 
 not updated for a few years, you can play it on medium or low. To play it on maximum graphics requires 
 one hell of a rig. The graphics are very amazing at max, and at medium it still looks really kickass. 
 The graphics don't slow down the game though it seems, so when your in a match with 64 people, 
 on a huge map, and your in combat. If your settings are fine by your computer, then there will 
 be no lag. 
  Graphics= 10/10.
  
  Alrighty, your on the battlefield, your pinned down and artillary is landing close by. Are you 
 scared? Yes! An explosion near by will blur your vision and deafen you for a few seconds. APC shots 
 landing around you will give off a loud terrifying *thud-thud-thud-thud". If a sniper has you in 
 his crosshairs, you can hear the bullets cutting past you, and spitting dirt at you. 
  Sound= 9/10
  
  This game is only for the multiplayer... but will it last you long? Yes you can 
 play it for the whole day if you have time, you can't get bored of this one because there is always 
 new expereiences and challenges, and modders will create a whole new expereince each time. 
  Value= 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukedeutsch
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 30, 2005 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2. It is a great game, but not the best. It couldv'e been the best with a little more 
 hard work and probably a little bit more 'umpf'. 
  The gameplay is good, though it is VERY difficult on multiplayer. It hurts to play this game, because 
 it shows you how much of a loser you actually are. 
  The graphics... aren't all that good. They are decent, but you need a VERY powerful machine to run 
 it. It's really buggy almost all the time, I see glitches all the time, I've been able to kill 
 people on the other side of a wall because their hands are sticking out of the other side, the 
 graphics just aren't very good. But for the scale of the game, they are decent.
  The sound is (pardon my french) piss-poor. The guns make little or no noise at all, there is an 
 almost complete lack of 'wartime atmosphere', it doesn't seem chaotic like it should, it seems 
 so... organized... tidy. Things that war is not.
  This game is not worth $50, by any means. It has about as many maps as I can count on my hands, 
 and a few of those maps are stinkers, cheaply made and poorly built. Glitchy up the arse. Not only 
 that, but the game has a TOTAL lack of single player value. I swear they must've spent about ten 
 minutes and $40 dollars to build the AI's brain, they are about as dirt stupid as Forest Gump in 
 a Physics conferance. To add onto that, you need a very powerful machine, with some very very powerful 
 online capabilities to run this thing successfully. A machine 2 months old won't cut it, ISDN won't 
 cut it, hell, even DSL won't cut it.
  This game was 'hype rated' as I like to say. Rated in the moment of the fun and action before the 
 people could open their eyes to see what this game really is: Cheap and dfficult to run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dolby510
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 30, 2005 6:45 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing Battlefield 2, I was a bit disapointed with its laggyness, and the 
 fact that it took me nearly 2 minutes to wait for my EA user account to login. After they released 
 the patches, and fixed all the bugs here and there I was more then impressed with the online play! 
 The graphics were so clean and sharp for an online game, despite the normal pixelation and over-antialiasing 
 you see when your close to an object.
  
  I like the whole ranking system/online community, although it is a bit difficult to learn how to 
 use at first but then becomes easily interpret-able. One thing I enjoy about the ranking system 
 is the new kits you can achieve as your rank grows. This is an excellent incentive to keep players 
 constantly motivated to keep there rank up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreak1314
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2005 3:49 pm PT
Review:  BatleField 2 is an extreme warfare combat game brought to you by EA Games and DICE. As BattleField 
 2 was released they had extreme sales do to it's past tense in gaming history. Having BattleFIeld 
 1942, BattleField 1942: Road to Rome, Desert Combat, BattleField Vietnam, and as of now BattleField 
 2. Now they even have it for the consle, BattleField 2: Modern Combat. Its Franchise has brought 
 may people to the game. Me as myself has an impact on it, as for this game there are little things 
 we'd expext more from. After a review on this.
  I give this game a 10 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_kraminator
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 28, 2005 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I bought Battlefield 1942, but I didn't really like the map sizes and the way you had to go out 
 and find people to kill, so I gave up on it. But when I heard about BF2, I was really hoping that 
 it would be something more. After seeing many previews, videos, screenshota, and more, I was highly 
 anticipating this game, and when you get it, it makes the wait well worth it.
  
  I was obviously very hyped for this game, and since it's release was in the Summer, I decided to 
 get it on DAR (day of release) . When I first installed it, chose my name, and hopped into a server, 
 I wasn't very pleased. The lag was just unbearable in some server, it was like having a teleport 
 fest... but in later patches that issue was fixed, although there is still sometimes lag.
  
  One of the first things you may notice about BF2, is the profile record system. This system keeps 
 track of how many kills, deaths, flag caps, and many other things you have done. You can get badges, 
 medals, and ribbons of many different sorts, like for a certain time parachting, getting a certain 
 amount of kills in one round, and many, many others. This system is great at first, but after awhile 
 it gets ridiculous, like having to get 18 knife kills in one round, and 50 total knife kills or 
 something like that. But this system is very good.
  
  Also, BF2 has got a brand new engine, and it has many good sides, but some down sides. The engine 
 displays the enviroments beautifully, making urban firefights and dog fights very exciting. But, 
 it does make you have a good system... I have 1 gig of RAM, a 2.8 P4, and an AGP 8x 6600GT, and 
 I can run most things on medium-high, but sometimes it lags when there's lots of explosions, but 
 that's expected. And you also better have a good internet (I have comcast high speed and it works 
 very well) or else you'll have a lot of lag. But overall, the graphics are very good.
  
  Now, there can be many good moments in BF2, and many bad, bad, moments. I'll start with the good. 
 Imagine this: Your 5 man squad is assaulting an infested enemy CP (control point) on the beach, 
 and it's the last one they have. You have a Sniper giving you the OK, so you toss in some smokes 
 and nades. Your team rushes to a bunker, taking out some Tangos while receiving a whole lot of 
 fire. All of a sudden, you see an enemy chopper flying towards you. It start shooting missiles 
 and raining down fire upon you, losing 2 of your men. When you think all is lost, a saviour jet 
 flies in and takes it out. Your team rushes to the flag and takes it over, making your team win. 
 These type of things will happen in this game, but there may also be some bad sides, which I will 
 point out now. You join a squad hoping to own some noobs, but you're squad has no orders and is 
 all over the map. Hey, at least you're in a squad. You go to take over a CP, call for backup, and 
 nobody comes. You get killed of course, and are quite annoyed. All of a sudden, your teammates 
 start screaming into there mics causing much pain to your ears. To make things worst, your idiot 
 commander starts Artying (Artillery) the crap out of you, causing many TK's. That is one of the 
 bad moments, but it can get much worse. Bad situations don't happen much, but good moments don't 
 happen a lot either. Overall, there usually isn't a ton of teamwork, but you can manage.
  
  Now to the SP. The bots have been made a helluva lot smarter, but you can still notice they're 
 bots. They go to CP, and follow orders, etc. But the experience you have with them may not be the 
 best, since you can only play on the 16-player size maps with them (Oh yeah, one thing I forgot 
 to mention. There are 3 map sizes [16, 32, 64] and can be adjusted according to how many players 
 on in the server) , so playing SP may not be the most enjoyable thing. If you have a crappy internet 
 connection, do yourself a favor and get a better one.... :)
  
  Overall, this game is very fun. There are good moments and bad moments, but the good definitely 
 outweigh the bad. Go get this game now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 28, 2005 4:47 pm PT
Review:  EA's latest war shooter has certainly been worth the wait. Combined with multiplayer action like 
 no other, and very life like events, this turns out to be an almost revolutionary game. 
  
  The game's sounds are great, all the guns have real-life sounds and the artillery also are great. 
 The multiplayer action is purely awesome, you play people around the world. 
  
  The only flaws are the game has many bugs in need of patching, and a terribly slow server browser.
 
  
  Why do people complain about the singleplayer? The multiplayer is what this game was soley made 
 for. And in this it excells beyond expectations, and is much better than almost all FPS', including 
 Half-Life 2.
  
  EA might not know to creater a browser, but they made a damn good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happyed
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 28, 2005 10:03 am PT
Review:  The user base in the forums is up in arms. Great game but
  i all three patches have been beset by problems and EA tech support
  is non existent. I cant 
 recommend this game in its current state.
  
  But it islovely when it works.
  
  Currently, about half the maps on a brand new - clean install dont load because EA somehow messed 
 up their checks. 
  
  WE SHOULDNT HAVE TO BE DEVELOPER/ADMINS (which i am) IN
  ORDER TO GET A GAME TO WORK!!! 
  
  EA NEEDS TO HIRE SOMEONE TO TEST THEIR PRODUCTS AND 
  
 PATCHES PRIOR TO RELEASE. sadly... this was apparently not done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gla001b
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2005 6:00 am PT
Review:  This is the best game i have ever played. It has something for everyone, the only bad thing is 
 that when the AI was perfect, no co-op mode in multiplayer. But it makes up for it in exelent urban 
 environments, outdoor, or a mix. And my favorite is the unlockable weapons. 
  
  First about the classes. there is support, medic, assault, special ops, sniper, engineer, and anit-tank. 
 Each with specail waepons and unlockables. The medic can revive mortally wounded soldiers and heal. 
 
  
  The engineer has a shotgun, and can unlock another that is fully automatic. and you get points 
 for reviveing fallen teammates ( medic ) or repairing vehicles ( engineer ) . I totally recomend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 15, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  battlefield 2 is a very good war game.
  With lots of weapon choice, vehicle choice and its really good.
  you can fly plane, choppers. 
 drive tanks and little jeeps. you can also drive boats
  and then there is also the close combat fighting which is always good.
  This game has really 
 good graphics and a more realistic feel to a war game.
  
  It is also a very fun multiplayer game, get all your mates to get it and dogfight with the variety 
 of aircrafts on offer or just duke it out on foot.
  Its an addictive game as well
  
  All in all quiet good for a war game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phatbrain101
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 27, 2005 1:51 am PT
Review:  This is like Quake 3, meaning it's basically a online game only. Yes it has single player mode; 
 but it's basically useful to practice flying your helo and jets. It's basically extremely fun when 
 a squad really works together; but just average to fustrating when their is no organization (50% 
 pick-me up games tend to be that way) .
  
  If you play and are on a squad with VOIP this game is extremely satisfying whether winning or getting 
 wiped; most of it is the comradery that your squad builds with one another. In matter of fact, 
 just being in a good squad makes a world of differece, even if the rest of the players outside 
 the squad are'nt organized or effective. On the downside, playing solo on multiplayer w/o squad 
 organization or friends can get quite tedious or even boring at times. The reason is that this 
 game involves organized play to be fun and/or successful - well if your team sucks you can't really 
 make that big of a difference because everyone here is a role player excluding a really dominate 
 aviator or helo pilot (and sometimes too many ppl wait on those too much) . 
  
  The graphics are top-notch, runs great on my system with everything set to highest quality The 
 graphics are not the most state of art, but more then good enough to wet the appetite. The sound 
 is good; nothing stands out but nothing negative about it either. I'm sure it would be great if 
 I could have tested it on a surround sound setup; that would have made a whale of a difference.
 
  
  Finally, the stats of BF2 are just fantastic; all games should look at BF2 as a example of a perisistant 
 character in-game. I gave a high reviewer's tilt because with friends this game is at it's best; 
 funner then most, if not all first person action shooter I've played. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mansak
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 26, 2005 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Very fun but extremely disapointing single player modes, i shouldn't count this off because its 
 technically a multiplayer game, however i didn't know that when i bought it so i was somewhat mislead 
 and i consider that EA's fault. This game would be sooo great if it just had a simple single play 
 menu like unreal tournament where you could choose your map, its size and, the number of AI, but 
 instead your stuck with 200 reenforcements and 16 AI on only about 1/3 of 75% of the maps i know 
 they basically figured most pc's couldn't run 64 ai in battles but so what ---why can't it be a 
 freakin feature, anyways with a mod you can have 32 AI and the game runs about the same (for me) 
 but the maps are still just small portions of their totals with many innacessible feature and vehicles. 
 Maybe the expansion will have more single player stuff and ill be happy or maby ill get decent 
 internet or some g** da** service from the phone companies who won't give my area any decent lines 
 that can support cable or anything at all when it rains. 
  Nonetheless this game manages to be fun even if i can only play about 1/3 of it and the gameplay 
 is still really fulfilling just not open ended at all thats why despite what anyone who may read 
 this thinks ill still give it a good review.
  If you just want to get this game for the mix of jets and fps and don't have high speed net, don't, 
 only one singleplayer level has jets.
  its a really basic fps when it comes to controls but helicopter and jets are hard to master which 
 really makes them more fun in the long run. The jets are pretty simple really, just a little too 
 realistic and fast, but the helicopters are really confusing for a while as they also fly realistically. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjj014
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 26, 2005 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is one of the hardest games to master that I have ever played. It's one of the few 
 games I've played that I can't master in a week or two. I'm still not perfect and I play it like 
 every day. It's a blast to play on-line, single player, or over a network with your friends.
  This is my favorite shooter game for PC. The only games I've played that were more fun was Halo 
 and Halo 2, but they were on X-Box. Most games published by EA are not very fun. When I first played 
 BF2 though, I thought very differently. Now that I've played BF2 I think I'm going to invest in 
 the original Battlefield games, just to compare. I can't wait until I get it on X-Box, looks and 
 sounds more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eapplen
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 9:47 am PT
Review:  This game delivered everything is promised. The graphics are amazing - I'd watched the videos of 
 the game online, but was sure on my computer, over a DSL line, there was no way the game could 
 run as smoothly. Luckily, I was wrong, and I can play the game at some of the highest detail levels 
 without any sort of slowdown.
  
  My biggest complaint just stems from the area of multiplayer. As is often the case is any multiplayer 
 game, you still manage to be put on games with knuckleheads that just aren't that smart, and are 
 never interested in playing as a team. You just have to accept that fact going in. That said, on 
 those occasions when you get on a team or server where people really ARE cooperating, squads are 
 functioning correctly and the commander is issuing orders and watching over the battlefield, on 
 those occasions the game trancends into something really special.
  
  It's a fun game solo, but if you can get on a talented team, the fun goes up by a factor of 10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonegavel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2005 1:50 pm PT
Review:  My FPS life started with quake and deathmatch. I moved to Capture the Flag and other team related 
 mods. I then discovered Counterstrike and the others dropped by the wayside. I had found my niche. 
 Sure I still like deathmatch, but team based play was it.
  
  I had heard a lot about Battlefield 1942, but I demo'd it and the choppiness of the game sent me 
 packing. Dying in-game because of stupidity is something to learn from, but dying because of a 
 laggy game is just plain frustrating.
  
  So, with an updated rig and my DSL connection I decided to see what the Battlefield 2 hubbub was 
 all about.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Wow! I didn't realize what I was missing and I haven't played Counterstrike since picking up BF2. 
 The gameplay of BF2 is so much fun; fast, intense, glorious, and defeat is just a good way to get 
 pumped up for the next round. I watch the respawn countdown with baited breath.
  
  The squad element of the game is great. You can easily see and differentiate between teammates, 
 squad mates, and enemies. The ability to spawn at your squad leader is awesome (there are lots 
 of little gems like this) .
  
  Even if the squad element was the only feature of the game, I think I would prefer this over Counterstrike. 
 The maps in BF2 are enormous and gorgeous (for an online game, of course) .
  
  However, BF2 doesn't simply have the soldier aspect. The vehicles are so much fun, I could almost 
 see myself tooling around in the buggies offline. The buggies are almost identical to Half Life 
 2 buggies and the other vehicles have their pros/cons; weapon power, reload speeds, speed of vehicle, 
 infinite ammo vs. limited, POV, etc.
  
  Some get you around and allow you to carry others. Some have a variety of weapons onboard for either 
 the driver or passengers. 
  
  As of now, the planes and helicopters aren't my bag, but I think that because they require a lot 
 of practice and, to me, that means time away from just playing the game.
  
  The commander mode is interesting, as you can take control of arty strikes, supply drops, and uav 
 (drones that allow your team to see the enemy on the radar) . You can view the battlefield from 
 top-down mode and see everything.
  
  The maps themselves offer so much you will find a new nook or cranny every time you play a map. 
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  It is no Doom 3, but the graphics don't get in the way. Once I got over how decent the game looked, 
 I turned everything waaaay down so my frame rates didn't kill me.
  
  Sound:
  
  I have really good headphones, so I can distiguish good sound from bad. There is nothing awe-inspiring 
 about the sound and, in fact, sometimes things are much quieter than I feel they should be. Otherwise, 
 the sound does its job.
  
  Overall
  
  For the first 2 weeks, the game was extremely frustrating because of the size of the maps and the 
 amount of info you have to parse at any given time. But, once the comfort zone hits, this is one 
 of the most satisfying team games I've ever played.
  
  If you are happy playing counterstrike-type games but are wondering if there is anything else out 
 there, don't look any further than Battlefield 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phanfan99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 25, 2005 6:32 am PT
Review:  After playing Battlefield 1 and Star Wars Battlefront I eagerly awaited this title and it was worth 
 it. The Online play is awsome. I am not one for first person shooter games but this game is the 
 one to buy! The graphics are cool. When you have the sniper rifle on and you are picking off the 
 enemy 500 yards away you can see thier bodies fly from the bullets. This is my first review and 
 I am really not 15 years old. This game is definatley the game to get. I promise my next review 
 of a game will be much better than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoscougar1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 17, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This was an amazing game! An awsome game with almost unlimited things to do and work for! Although 
 some fo them will be out of reach, patiets is a virtue and practice makes perfect. This is probably 
 one of my you favourite games of all time! The weapons are awsome fun and the ways u can kill someone 
 and the awards you can get for it is some of the best fun! Whenever you look at your stats you'll 
 want to get back on and improve them and once you see awards that others have you'll want to strive 
 for them and that is a major plus for any gamer for we are always looking for something to win/get 
 and Battlefield 2 Medals, Badges and Ribbons are the perfect solution. I strongly recommend it 
 to all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ll4m4
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2005 9:29 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks. I love it so much, with all the classes and the new medic kits. It's so much fun 
 that me and my friends cant stop playing it. It is by far my favorite online FPS. 
  
  I used to be one for Counter-strike: Source and all the mods and stuff. I still play some 1.6, and 
 don't get me wrong i had played over 500+ hours of counter strike source. But Battlefield2, I haven't 
 even had it that long and already have 60+ hours on it.
  
  With the new maps and all the new bug fixes I guarantee you will love this game. It's perfect. 
 And the new expansion packs? I thought it was already perfect. Good job EA, just next time don't 
 release it with all those glitches. It's my only bug against the game. The fact that they rushed 
 it. And believe me, even though you need an amazing PC to run it. It's my favorite game, period. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ru40342
Rating: 6.1
Date: Oct 24, 2005 9:04 pm PT
Review:  BATTLEFIELD 2, an absolute hit first person shooter and take the pc first person shooter to another 
 level. although its greatness and supremeness, it somehow fail to impress me. beside no story that 
 driven the game, it combat system just isn's good enought for me
  
  MULTIPLAY MULTIPLAY MULTIPLAY. everything this game represent is solid multiplay and nothing else, 
 especially people like me that have no 'dam fast' broadband connections. what can you do or feel 
 playing alone in front of your computer against some artificial intelligent soldier and same or 
 dirt in the game.
  
  Yes. the game graphic is cool but arr...... it's to system-hungry (if you compare with half life 
 2 that offer great graphic at low-medium hardware) . its hardware requirement is too high and often 
 time you have to spent up to $500 just to setup your computer to accept this "masterpiece" not 
 include the price of the game itself.
  
  after around 3-4 hours play, you can really become boring when your play alone. the main reason (for 
 me) to feel boring about this game is there is no story that driven this game. a good story (like 
 the one in codename panzer phase one can really make you exited and keep you on your chair for 
 some extra hour.
  
  Finally, this is a very good game only if you can play it online or with your friend. once you 
 have the horrible experience playing alone, this game can be an average standart first person shooter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blankman007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2005 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is the best multiplayer shooter to date in my opinion. The maps range from small 
 16 player maps up to 64 people in one map and i have even heard there are mods to increase that 
 number even higher! You have the option to fly plaves and helicopters and drive a variety of ground 
 vehicles armored and unarmored. The graphics and enviroments have all been beautifully polished 
 to look extremely realistic weapons and vehicles all look and sound as if you are actually in the 
 field. The singleplayer AI is some of t he best ive ever seen in a shooter. In online play the 
 better you are you get rewarded with unlockable weapons for each type of soldier you can play as. 
 I highly recomend this if you have a decent graphics card and a sizeable amount of memory inorder 
 to keep the graphics strong thats when this game looks its best. But if you dont have a high end 
 computer the minimum settings look great as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 08_lancer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 23, 2005 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best multiplayer games you will ever face until 100 years from now its 
 well put and makes yourself feel like a solider of this age with stats, medals, ribbons, ranks 
 and so on. If your new to the Battlefield series this is when you should step in for yourself to 
 find out what a real multiplayer game is and how it feels. Lets get into some basics now, graphics 
 are outstanding, one thing they need is some realistic blood. Sound is crystal clear as you hear 
 the jet engines roaring and crackling and guns sounding like firecrackers on the 4th of july. Overall 
 this game is a multiplayers dream come true with good graphics, good designs, awesome realistic 
 gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanconnery31
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 23, 2005 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Not since counter-strike or Socom have I had this feeling of intensity and excitement in any video 
 game. Yes, battlefield 2 , is my favorite online game ever made. In fact, one of my favorite shooters. 
 Period. 
  It's like no other. Combining the most beautiful graphics + sound, with 
  incredible action/gameplay . The replay value here is endless. And when I mean endless, I mean 
 3948349 hours of it. BF2 has 20+ vehicles , 6 different classes , and gigantic solid maps , the 
 game is almost flawless. The almost part comes with the server problems , and graphic requirements. 
 
  
  But, if you get past those 2 , this game will be one of the best gaming experiences , you will 
 ever have. 
  
  -sean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CROBO
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 23, 2005 9:53 am PT
Review:  It's a very good war game.
  
  i like that you can command your mates to do the things you want.
  
  and that you can fly in 
 aircrafts and boats, cars, heli's
  
  the multi-player function it's also cool with 64 players,
  but most of them are noobs and kill 
 them team mates. so the multi-player function is f*ckt up.
  
  the graphics are great, sound less.
  
  game play is cool in the begin but after playing a few 
 hours it's boring.
  
  so the game it's not that great, i will give it a 8,2....
  
  most people say that the game is great, better than half-life 2 etc.
  
  but thats not true 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okaymuppet
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 23, 2005 4:34 am PT
Review:  no doubt, it's the best F P S game ever!
  Enhanced with the new air and land vehicles, the 7 different occupations makes the game so diverse 
 that every game is a totally new experience!
  I have played battlefield 1942 before and when i got hold of my copy of BF2, i feel like it's nothing 
 like its predecessor, only it is much better and more fun.
  Everyone can specialise in the diversed roles and make the best of themselves.
  The online ranking 
 and award system is also awesome.
  Driving in a Jet or helicopter is just fantastic, you are just like playing flighter simulator.
 
  One thing that can make this game 10/10 is the availability of more boats or ship. and also the 
 apache copter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSonic223
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2005 8:23 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, however it taks a lot of getting used to if you haven't played many computer 
 games. I myself have really only played Half Life games and Warcraft games. I'm not really into 
 PC games but I found this to be one of the best games I have ever played in general. It's pure 
 multiplayer fun, and if u got friends who have it go ahead and buy it. I would suggest this to 
 anyone who likes shooters. As a console gamer I find that a in order for myself to buy a PC game 
 it has to be out of this world and this game is. Really if you love FPS games it is a MUST buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palex14
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 22, 2005 9:38 am PT
Review:  Yeah, this game is obviously the best in the series, VERY NICE graphics, VERY NICE gameplay, VERY 
 NICE sounds, this game OwNeD!!! Well I don't know how explain this but this game is a very nice 
 FPS over the internet... you can play a lot in the same server (64) , you can drive a lot of things- 
  copter, cars, army cars, jets, etc. You can have a lot of different weapons. You can speak over 
 a VoIP that's a very good thing for a game, the creators just tough of all that a super FPS game 
 need to be SUPER! You must have this game!!! THANKS TO EA GAMES FOR THIS EXTRAORDINARY GAME!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafarsadik
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 22, 2005 8:19 am PT
Review:  Oh yeah this game sure has the right stuff.
  
  Ever since the guys at Gamespot made the demo available I couldn't stop playing it until the full 
 thing was on my PC and ever since that I couldn't stop playing this game.
  
  Real good job making this game SERIOUSLY it's a great title to have and even if you're not a fan 
 of the genre you should get this one coz this will surly be your ticket to the genre !
  Everything bout it is just A+, the graphics, the interface, the sounds (nice work with the arabic 
 talking) and anyone who would have like 15 min to spare to get into this game will find him/herself 
 playing it to the wee hours of the morning (and possibly missing a day or 2 off work) hehe.
  
  My advice, GO BUY THE GAME !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dare365
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 21, 2005 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 has amazing gameplay, but, as the same problem the original bf1942 had, it is just 
 way too buggy upon release. When you finally manage to get used too the quarks of the game, its 
 decently fun, if u can find a good server to play on that you can rank on. These servers are hard 
 too find and even harder to find on a specific map. Ping issues are annoying and drives is hard 
 to deal with. Some times you will be flying your black hawk, and you will find your self deep in 
 water 1 second, then doing barrel rolls 5000 feet above the ocean, and then some how, dead. The 
 game can get really irritating, when things that are not under your control occur, such as lag 
 spikes, bugs where a teammate wanted to simply pick u up, but was going 1 mph in reverse and somehow 
 kills you, or the classic, run into your teammates mines.
  
  Gameplay
  Fun, I highly recomend finding a server located around you, that you know wont lag u often and 
 as soon as u get used too the bugs, and adjust too them, the fun begins.
  
  Graphics
  AMAZING, top of the line graphics.
  
  Sound
  Realistic, but sometimes the constant spam of 
 radio commands can get annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogoplexiorayo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 21, 2005 8:56 am PT
Review:  you can check it down there. its a good game its has a lot of personality and intensity. It remins 
 me of the good old bf vietnam. Great stuff
  
  Bad parts : you can take too much damage the flowers are poorly done and the grass is a bit in 
 the air. 
  
  Good : gameplay is perfect
  graphchis is great 
  weapons are great too use and it seems real. 
  
  I give this game 9,3 because it have great 
 gameplay.
  
  And it has a black eye.
  
  This game is a must buy for every first person shooter lover out there and rem dont play black 
 hawk down not in this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buyakia
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 20, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  I love this game the graphics are spectacular and everything else is great but i docked a mark 
 for graphics because you cant set them on high unless u spend $10000000 for a gc and who wants 
 to do that and also the sound is good but i also took a mark away from that for making the ak-47 
 sound kind of like its made of plastic! other than that this game was simply amazing like the squads 
 and gameplay. if you didnt like the other battlefields you should still try battlefield 2 simply 
 the best game of the year. also i cant WAIT till battlefield 2 special forces comes out, the game 
 looks like counter strike but 30 times better because the game of course is battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5367
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 20, 2005 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Everything you see in a war is in this game but the blood and the guts. This is good because it 
 allows more people to get the game because if it had the gore it would be rated Mature. Also the 
 graphics are superb online play is unbelievable and any vehicle or weapon you can think of is yours. 
 If you need a SWAT team they are there for you instead of standing around like most war games. 
 If you need to escape out of a plain you can jump out and commit suicide or use your handy dandy 
 parachute. It is 200 against 200 and other people are fighting while you are it is similare to 
 Battlefront just better. This game holds so much memory it is amazing. I suggest this game to those 
 who love good war games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_of_Cheese1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 20, 2005 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is definately worth playing. It might have cost me $300 to make my machine capable 
 of even operating it on minimum levels, but every cent was worth it and still is. I would call 
 multiplayer not quite better than but as satisfying as Halo2's. Also, having it makes my friends 
 envy me. It is fun to be envied. 
  
  though there is only a few maps, there are several soldier classes to choose from. There is an 
 anti-tank class, a medic, and my favorite, the assult class, among others. The gameplay is fierce, 
 and the AI is smart. against those enemies, there is nowhere to hide. plus, it is fun to sneak 
 up on enemies and stab them with your dagger. Also, they fight to the death. you have to kill them 
 all if you want to capture their lands. and they seem to keep coming. oh well, thats just more 
 points for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash_darkmoon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 20, 2005 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt, battlefield 2 has turned into something that far outweighed my expectations of 
 it in the first place.
  
  From the moment I jumped into my first ranked server, I was having my rear end handed to me courtosey 
 of an f-18 dropping its payload onto the base I was in.
  
  Playing as a sniper ( (which I always do) ) proved to be as damned rewarding as I had hoped... watching 
 my foes fall to their knees and keel over with a grin of pure glee stretched across my face....
 
  
  Not many games have managed to do that for me these days... but this one sure did.... If you havent 
 yet, pick up a copy of Battlefield 2, you wont be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingDisgrace
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 20, 2005 2:17 pm PT
Review:  In the world of first-person shooters, there will never be anything to come close to the dominance 
 of what Half-Life and Counter-Strike was and still is. However, for those who still hate AWPS, 
 who still hate the flashbang glitches, who still hate l33tspeak and all the other crap Half-Life 
 has been immersed into, Battlefield 2 is the best way to take anger out in a productive way. Instead 
 of a usual FPS with linear and shoot-whatever-the-hell-it-is levels and a laggy and unimmersive 
 online experience, Battlefield ventures out with huge, exploratory levels that almost require that 
 you be in a vehicle, whether it be an APC, tank, helicopter, whatever, sometime during a level. 
 Battlefield has no story, it's just the world and you, playing in 10+ levels in 16, 32, or 64 player 
 servers, allowing you to be a lone wolf, a squad leader or member, or the commander of your team, 
 playing to a wide range of appeals.
  
  To be the lone wolf sniper and take everything for yourself.
  
  To be the commander and coordinate 
 your team to a satisfying victory, while along the way pocketing a few points for yourself.
  
  To be a squad leader and lead those who follow you to be an unstoppable force on the ground.
 
  
  Or to be a squad member and be the perfect grunt, following orders and supporting your teammates.
 
  
  Either way, the game is satisfying in itself, if not for a few key problems that leaves Dice and 
 EA scrambling to fix. There have been 3 patches in just 4 months, and another expansion coming 
 in just one month. Yep. There have been A LOT of problems, some fixed, some still lagging in. EA 
 fixing stat padding and has done a good job to find stat padders and ban them immediately. However, 
 some issues still cling.
  
  1. System hog. Oh yes, BF2 will leave even some higher-end systems crying for mercy, what, with 
 the huge maps, poor compression, pain-staking detail, hitboxes, and vehicles flying around the 
 map. There was no way to avoid the hog from rearing it's ugly head, even though we wish it wouldn't.
 
  
  2. Lag. Along with the enormous thirst BF2 has for processor speed, memory, and a video card, it 
 drinks up all of your bandwidth to quench itself. I run a 108 MbPs wireless DSL connection, and 
 I can still only muster a ping of 90 on the best of days. I pity the fools who have dial-up.
  
  3. The power of the fighter. *Boom* Yep. That's right. You ran and you ran, clipping away enemies 
 with expert skill to cap that one flag, that one satisfaction, and then... A fighter sweeps in 
 for the kill, and his payload leaves you wasted without him giving a second thought. We only wish 
 the AA was better: A simple press of the X button, and those flares crush any thought you had of 
 bringing that jet down.
  
  4. Conquest is all you get. A minor problem, but for the stat system to be fair in all respects, 
 capping those flags in Conquest is all you get.
  
  Now, the question is imposed upon you. Will you still buy the game? I did. And even through the 
 patches, the lag, I still play Battlefield 2 with glee. And you should too.
  
  See you out in the field, soldier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 20, 2005 8:12 am PT
Review:  I bought this on the day of release, loaded it up and then gave up with it because my PC was just 
 not up to the job of playing it. Back then I had a P4 2 gig, 1gb Ram, nVidia 5200fx and lots of 
 disk space. It looked just awful and laggy as hell.
  
  So I have finally gotten around to upgrading the machine a bit and thought I would give it another 
 try.
  
  Now I have a P4 3ghz, 2gb Ram, Raid 1 disks and an ATI X850 GT under the hood. The game loaded 
 up nicely, settings are running around 70% of maximum (best I could get out of it and still get 
 decent frame rates) and it seems to be running OK.
  
  I have to say that I hate the lobby, it takes ages for the games to load up and even longer from 
 the point of choosing a game to be able to actually play. I have all the updates but they have 
 not helped.
  
  Once in though, this games rocks. Although I can't run at full steam, it does look good and there 
 is only minimal lag now. Maybe when I upgrade to an Athlon chip then I will finally get close to 
 maxing out the settings.
  
  So I would say that yeah, give it a go if your system is up to it. It's a fast and exciting experience 
 and one that will keep you coming back for more for a while yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jameswatson
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 20, 2005 6:32 am PT
Review:  Start a single player game, have your friend join a LAN game using your IP address (when you start 
 your game it will tell you what your IP is) . That's it! It fills the rest of the teams with bots!
 
  
  Great game, highly addictive. Full of something for everybody, even if you can't hit a bullseye 
 to save your life you can still have a huge impact on the game.
  
  Search online for other tweaks. You can modify the number of bad guys in SP mode, their difficulty, 
 their names, etc. It's all very easy to do and once you've learned to tweak it, this game will 
 be your favorite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vodka100
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 16, 2005 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt, Battlefield 2 deliveres fast paced fun action that may cost you some time at work, 
 or lost sleep. Battlefield 2 was designed to be a team game. It is hard to find a squad that actually 
 works together. As long as your team is competent you can still win without a total squad effort. 
 IF your into fun fast paced action, buy this game! You wont be disapointed. There are some features 
 though that can be frustrating. You can get ran over by your own vehicle after you get out. All 
 it takes it a touch of a vehicle to kill you. Another thing that is very frustrating is the team 
 kill feature. About 95% of the time, team killing is accidental. IT seems people will punish you (punishing 
 takes valuable points away from you if they chose the punish option) there is a option to forgive 
 or punish. Chose forgive unless it is blatant. I myself am into Roleplaying/Adventure games. Since 
 there hasnt been real roleplaying games released recently I decided to play BAttlefield 2. As a 
 hard core gamer, this game can be appreciated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPopo66613
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 20, 2005 3:15 am PT
Review:  Graphics 10, it might need a high end machine but graphics arent everything. awesp, e effects and 
 details on everything.
  
  Gameplay 10, 30 weapons a bunch of vehicles, artillery and innovative, squads, voice comm., commanders 
 and RANKING system battelfield is worth every single penny. Whether your dogfighting 2000 feet 
 above the ground, bomibing the carreir or infiltrating it via boat this game is awesome.
  
  Sound 10, makes you feel JUST like your in the middle of a war, it even has different voices for 
 each army...
  
  As I mentioned earlier the new ranking system allows you rank from PFC to Sergeant Major of The 
 Corps (which is wierd if you mainly play chinese or MEC forces) the ranking system also offers 
 awards that you can glorify. Awards are handed to you through your esteemed accoplishments on the 
 field, there are badges which are quite easy to get ribbons a little more difficult and require 
 some time, and then medals that require a significant amount of skills or a MAJOR amount of time 
 ranging from thousands of hours.
  
  Overall this game is awesome. especially with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alyersin
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2005 12:43 am PT
Review:  Great game with a very good multiplayer mod and graphics From the vehicles in the air and ground 
 allowing for several passengers (whether it is a hitchhike or a gunner) to the different classes 
 of soldier you can be, everything fits perfectly.
  If this had a story mode and cinematic flare of Call of Duty I would give this a higher rating, 
 but I can't do that. I give what is there a 9... but saying that doesn't mean much beings that it 
 could be better compared to other games (meaning a very short game could get a 10 for what is there 
 but compared to Half-Life 2 it would be a very short 7) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lathammer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 19, 2005 7:33 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have ever played. I am not sure why I like it so much because it 
 isnt the best as far as graphics; not bad, just isnt the main feature. Isnt the best as far as 
 story.... there isnt any - you create it each and every game and it can turn on a dime. But my God, 
 my marriage has actually been in jeopardy over this game - I leave work to play in the morning 
 just "For 45 minutes" and I dont log off until 2am. Initially I found it so obnoxious and didnt 
 like it. It takes a little while to get used to the massiveness of the maps, and the different 
 kits, vehicles etc. Play it at least 5 hours straight to give it a chance. The first time I figured 
 out I could take down a tank with a shoulder mounted launcher... and did it.... I was hooked and 
 been going ever since. Great game.... want more. Dont let the vets on the game get you down, get 
 20 rounds under your belt... join a squad and follow your squad leader... and you will start to get 
 a feel for the flow of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MX125Fire
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 7:20 pm PT
Review:  When I originally asked for this game I was expecting a lot. When I actually got the game and found 
 there to be no single-player per say, I was quite disappointed. When I buy games I lean toward 
 single-player action... I've always enjoyed in-depth story more than profane and vulgar head-to-head 
 competition. I'm glad it's still good for direct connections so that my friends and I can play.
 
  Every gameplay aspect of Battlefield 2 is amazing. From the vehicles in the air and ground allowing 
 for several passengers (whether it is a hitchhike or a gunner) to the different classes of soldier 
 you can be, everything fits perfectly.
  If this had a story mode and cinematic flare of Call of Duty I would give this a higher rating, 
 but I can't do that. I give what is there a 9... but saying that doesn't mean much beings that it 
 could be better compared to other games (meaning a very short game could get a 10 for what is there 
 but compared to Half-Life 2 it would be a very short 7) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylsake
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 1:57 pm PT
Review:  If you liked battlefield 1942, you will be really happy with this game. If you are like me, and 
 were still playing it when Battlefield 2 came out, then this game has to hit the top of your priority 
 list. 
  
  The game play is the same, those who played Desert Combat wont be too suprised with the change 
 of play due to new weaponry.
  
  There is a lot less ability to just go out as infantry and try to rack up kills with your rifle. 
 The extensive arsenal of 21st century vehicles are way too much for a soldier alone.
  
  The teamwork infrastructure is omnipresent, but people still want to jump in and run around on 
 their own. Voice coordination is still underutilized, and even though the commander functions are 
 all well done, strangers just still arent using them. Get on a server with a clan who has figured 
 it out, though, and youll notice its definately a game-tipping skill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danius
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 19, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is one of the best shooters I have played in a very, very long time. The game's huge, 
 sprawling maps of various terrains, the squad based tactics, the unbelievable graphics, the mobility 
 between classes it provides, and the realistic physics engine all are things that make this game 
 a definnate must have for anyone who can appreciate an all around solid game.
  
  There were many many problems with release version of BF2, with patch 1.01, and with patch 1.02. 
 These problems were so severe (in most people's casses) that it inhibited gameplay to the point 
 of uselessness. I had to put the game aside for about 2 months after I bought while I waited for 
 the release of the new patch. The 1.03 patch VASTLY improves gameplay and general functionality 
 of the game and, since it's release, has kept me glued to me seat, exploring every minute in and 
 out of this game while developing my own skill and personal strategy.
  
  If you are thinking about joining the BF2 ranks I suggest you get up, right now, head to the store, 
 and "mount up soldier!!" However, be forewarned. This game is very difficult when you first get 
 started for a couple of different reasons. Firstly, the exterme realism mixed with the fact that 
 you are playing against thinking humans (who are probably a lot better than you at first) causes 
 you to think about a vast number of in game variables that are usualy not of much importance. These 
 variables include cover, terrain surroundings, weapon matchups, weapon accuracy, tanks, planes, 
 snipers, target distance, bullet speed, bullet drop over a distance, etc. etc. etc.
  
  Another reason for the game's initial difficulty is actualy one of the more interesting components 
 of the game, the rank system. BF2 players are awarded points for acomplishing certain things in 
 battle (such as kills, captures, etc.) These points accumilate over time and are similar to experience 
 points one would recieve in an MMORPG. As you accumilate points your character will increase in 
 rank, earn badges, medals, and ribbons, and earn the ability to unlock alternative, usualy more 
 powerful and accurate weapons. While most of these things are mainly for very entertaining and 
 self gratifying bragging rights, the ability to unlock new weapons as one gains experience means 
 that when you first start out as a puny private, chances are the hostiles you encounter in game 
 will, not only have more gameplay experience than you, but probably a better weapon. Don't give 
 up, though! With a little bit of practice you will find yourself turning into a bad ass modern 
 day warrior.
  
  All in all, this game is simply awesome. It's non-stop action, great gameplay, kit mobility, and 
 the fact that to be good at this game requires strategy, teamwork, and levels of thinking beyond 
 "spawn, get a rocket laucher, and aim for the other guys feet" makes it an all around great game 
 and will keep you teetering on the edge of your seat with excitement, literaly.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theonesomedude
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2005 12:42 pm PT
Review:  VEry addictive gameplay ,great teamwork, and the best sequel in the battlefield series to date!. 
 Very nice graphics, the only thing is kinda laggy in some servers and its hard to find one that 
 has nice ping ( im using cable modem) . 
  Makes me mad that people give bad reviews to good games like this one, these people can just go 
 end their lives and do the world a favor, because no one wants to listen to them.
  If you haven't bought this game, and enjoy playing FPS games this is a must have game to add to 
 the collection... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tasuke
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2005 9:09 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is an awsome and action packed game great for anyone who is willing to relieve stress 
 out on the battlefield. Even though the battlefield series isnt popular for its overall single 
 player, the multiplayer is what always takes the cake. You run around the battlefield and there 
 is never a dull moment as your being sniped or run over or being gunned down by a tank, jeep, airplane, 
 helicopter ect or dodging artillery fire. To actualy win on the battlefield tho involves team work 
 and the new stat system in which you can get promoted is something i like very much. To actualy 
 open up the games real potention you have to have a top knotch machine to play its full capacity. 
 I dont so i have to play it at the lowest graphic settings but still its fun either way. It can 
 get a bit choppy if theirs too much going on but thats not really anything to complain about it 
 is a battlefield. Overall i loved this game and when i get a new computer i will love it even more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChocoboFire31
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 18, 2005 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 Could have easily been one of the best tactical shooters of the year. However, the 
 developers at EA decided to focus more on eye candy, than putting tactics into the game.
  
  Something that immediately catches attention is the very ambitious graphics engine of Battlefied 
 2. I admit, this aspect is superb. The best to date, and I commend EA for it. The rest is all downhill 
 from here.
  
  The second thing that popped out to me is the weapon system, which I will seperate into two categories: 
 The "regular" guns. Remember, these are 5.56 mm NATO, 7.62 mm, and 9 mm bullets -not little ABS 
 resin BB pellets. The guns feel like pea shooters; they are inaccurate, weak, and have surprisingly 
 low recoil. The second category is the sniper rifle. These are horrible. It is very obvious that 
 EA did not spend much time drawing the crosshairs since the lines are thick, and the mil dots are 
 not evenly spaced. As with the rifles, they are way too inaccurate and way too weak. A good shot 
 in the chest should be enough to down a soldier.
  
  Another thing I noticed was that soldiers seemed to be able to hold their weapons perfectly still. 
 If anyone knows the secret, please tell me.
  
  There is also a lack of tactical possibilities. Whenver two people meet in open terrain, the procedures 
 are always the same. Go prone, bring up sights, slowly squeeze off rounds until one person dies. 
 There are a few variations, as to how two people meet each other, but once they do, engagements 
 are always the same: stop, drop, and shoot.
  
  Although I would say that it is a little better than some other games, It is more a showcase for 
 EA's art development, and less of a good, worthwile game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeerLuver
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 18, 2005 8:06 am PT
Review:  I am thoroughly pleased with Battlefield 2 for the most part. While as expected with EVERY game 
 that comes out, the bugs can be tedious and frustrating at times. So far though, EA/DiCE have been 
 pretty decent with their patches. Overwelmed with complaints, whiners, and obsessive hardcore gaming 
 fanatics' b*tchfests about bugs and issues, I'm sure they take every one of them into consideration. 
 Patience is a virtue long lost to gamers, that's for sure.
  
  I can say this because I run this game well BELOW the minimum system requirements in the CPU, memory, 
 and videocard categories. Technically, this game shouldn't even run, let alone be playable, on 
 my oldass 733 mhz P3 with 896 mb of PC133 SDRAM and a ATi Radeon 9800 Pro 128mb vidcard (upgraded 
 from GeForce FX 5200 recently which ALSO ran this game at the time) . Of course I am working at 
 purchasing a new system to better run this game as well as others. It is still a surprise to me 
 that this hardware-heavy game even runs on my outdated old pc. 
  
  The multiplayer aspects of the game have been greatly improved with EA's latest 1.03 patch and 
 has made the game much more enjoyable to me as well as others I've noticed. Reducing the harsh, 
 overinflated requirements to advance in rank and obtain unlockable kits has done wonders for this 
 game IMO. It still holds a strong desire to play well to obtain statistical growth, badges, medals, 
 and ribbons too. 
  
  With the Battlefield 2: Special Forces expansion coming out soon, I can only imagine this game's 
 popularity growing even more. I do however strongfully suggest to EA/DiCE to strive to release 
 patches for bug fixes much more quickly for BOTH BF2 and the upcoming expansion. It is my guess 
 that if they have both development teams; current BF2 and the team working on BF2: SF, work together 
 to combat issues, bugs, etc. then once the expansion is released. Perfect; or at least as close 
 as possible, these two existing games before starting on any planned upcoming sequel or expansion. 
 They did that so well with the Battlefield 1942 series, we NEED that for this one now. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: orlandoech
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 18, 2005 7:14 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 
  The most realistic modern day combat game EVER and PERIOD! As a USMC myself, this game is amazing 
 to detail. Of course it has it's bad points. One bad point would have to be that you can't lean/peak; 
 but this is NOT AT ALL a set-back in the gameplay. Very realistic, revolutionary and EXTREMELY 
 evolved for a combat game, the game/trainer/simulation US ARMY has nothing on this game what-so-ever. 
 Must have for all combat fans or FPS fans. SP mode is rather boring, but if you're buying this 
 game for SP then you should be slapped!
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Well, they are just amazing and very detailed. But be aware to get full eye candy you must have 
 a very strong rig. I run the game on 1024*768 with ALL HIGH settings and average 70-75fps due to 
 my 7800GT! My roommate wants to build a new PC just to play this because it makes his XBOX and 
 PS2 graphics look inferior.
  
  SOUND:
  Someone help me, I feel like I'm really getting shot at and when plains/tanks/heli's drop they 
 bombs I feel like I'm LITERALLY in the BATTLEFIELD! 
  
  TILT:
  I will be playing this game for a very long time, I can't seem to get sick of it. It's that good! 
 
  
  My favorite thing about this game is you getting promotions/higher ranking with time and you unlock 
 better weapons with promotions. You also get recommendations for helping out your squad. MUST HAVE 
 GAME!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kooliod999
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 17, 2005 7:43 pm PT
Review:  There is nothing left to say but " (near) perfect."
  The gameplay is stunning, but too similar to the physics of Half-Life 2 (in the big picture) . The 
 planes, the cars, the helicopters - simply amazing.
  - I have to admit, HL2 doesn't allow you to fly helicopters or planes (with the exception of some 
 mods) . The commander mode is nice, but way overrated in that area. The VOIP systems are really 
 inspirational and creative.
  The graphics are simply perfect. Nothing else in that area - Honestly!
  The sound is nice, but 
 I've seen better (HL2 involves the environment more - i. e. birds chirping, kicking objects) .
  The value is good - the $49.99 you pay is a good buy.
  My tilt is only perfect because of the 
 hype from the advertisements. The trailers and videos are way to exaggerated. On a run-of-the-mill 
 computer (256MB RAM, 2Ghz, ATI 9200) there are major problems. Of course, that's why I suggest 
 to any expert, high-end gamer: 
  
  Go either Alienware ALX or DELL XPS
  Get PCI EXP - ATI x1800 I believe? or the nVidia 7800?
  You will need 1GIG+ or RAM (800Mhz or 
 higher, preferrably)
  Get a nice internet connection (1mbps and above - i. e. DSL/Cable)
  
  If you're willing to spend several grand on a high end system indicated above, this will be 
 the best game on that computer. Go buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warcraftguy321
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 17, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 doesnt stray far from its predacesors and yet has some new gameplay elements that 
 give it an all new feel and in my opinion make the game a whole lot more realistic and fun.
  The time period is no longer set during a historic war period, but in a near future battle between 
 the United States, China, and the fictional Middle Easter Coalition (MEC) . All the forces have 
 their own set of vehicles and weapons but all share the same unlockable weapons and squad/commander 
 functionality. The only thing that bugs me about this is politcal correctness. I don't like it 
 how they went out of their way to make the middle easter people a country with a regular army wearing 
 kevlar vests and with modern high tech weaponry and gear. In real life all of the middle easterners 
 we are fighting are armed with things such as AK-47s and RPGs. In Battlefield 2 the devolopers 
 decided to give them AK-101s and wire guided rocket launchers with scopes. They also gave them 
 jets (most middle eastern countries no longer have an air force or never had one) and tanks and 
 other more modern things which aren't as common anymore with middle eastern countries we are against. 
 Another thing that I think should not of been changed is the way the middle eastern soldiers are. 
 They gave them kevlar vests and helmets and other accesories that insurgents do not wear.
  The gameplay of Battlefield 2 is very similar to the conquest mode of the original Battlefield 
 games. You join one of two factions, pick your kit, then work to capture control points and lower 
 your oponents tickets to zero to win the game. The only thing really differen't besides the near 
 future setting is the addition of squads and a mission commander mode. These give some sort of 
 organization to a team and with the addition of voice over IP (which more people should start using 
 in my opinion) allow for a small organized team to be able to beat a large, scattered, unorganized 
 one. The commander also has many special abilities such as being able to see where enemy forces 
 using satelite scans and radar. The commander is also able to call down artillary which is very 
 effective at clearly out a bunkered down location. The commander is also able to call down supplies 
 and can send out orders to squad leaders.
  Battlefield 2 only have one gameplay mode, conquest, but I never even played any of the other modes 
 so it makes no difference for me. I believe that they will add on some more play modes because 
 when you go to create a game there is a game type option so you can always look forward to that 
 in future patches! Which brings me to my next point, additions added through patches. One of the 
 great things about PC Gaming is that it is very easy for a company to make new maps for them game 
 then just through them into the next patch. Sure some console games have had that like Halo 2 but 
 with PC Games its free! Patch 1.3 added in the popular Wake Island map with a modern twist sending 
 the U. S. and Chinese forces at each other. This map is very well done and seems to be a big hit 
 online. I am sure we will see at the least two or three new maps after this and if not more!
  One of the very cool features about online play in Battlefield 2 that is differen't from its predacesors 
 is the addition of an online account and ranking system. When playing in ranked games you now get 
 points for doing varies things such as two points for getting a kill and one point for healing 
 or reviving someone ect. These points add up to your account and allow you to advance through the 
 U. S. Marine Ranks from E1 (Private) up to E9 (Sergeant Major) . These ranks give you a higher chance 
 to be selected as commander when you apply and also every time you rank up starting at E3 (Lance 
 Corperal) you get to unlock 1 of 7 of the unlockable weapons. The unlockable weapons are not better 
 than the originals but handle differently so may be more to your style (exp. you like accuracy 
 over power or vice versa ect.) and will look like you have more experience if you are carrying 
 an unlockable.
  The only thing sometimes frustrating in Battlefield 2 is getting killed by people you can't see. 
 Most of the time that I am killed is from an explosion from some unknown area or a sniper halfway 
 across the map. This isn't really a problem just can get annoying when you wait the 15 seconds 
 to spawn just to get killed by an artillary shell three seconds later.
  The graphics in Battlefield 2 are very superb. On low settings in may not look much better than 
 previous Battlefields but when you get it cranked up to high on a good machine it looks beautiful. 
 The real time lighting is great and the textures and models look great. The first time I ever played 
 it on medium I spent half the time looking at everything and when I got to try it on high I couldn't 
 believe it in a 64 player game with square mile maps. Sure it isn't anything like Doom 3 or similar 
 high graphics games but it would be hard to get that to run on a internet game with huge maps and 
 lots of players.
  The sounds are really great in this too. You can hear the birds in the background in Chinese forest 
 areas and the sound of gunfire and explosions can be heard ominously
  Overall Battlefield 2 is a must have for fans of Military Shooters, Team Based Games, and First 
 Person Shooters in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripleXpacK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2005 7:40 am PT
Review:  Well there it is Battlefield2, this game is finally out and finish... humm.. out yes finish not 
 sure. I have never seen a game comming out with so many bugs and crashes that makes you go crazy!! 
 and the punishing system argggghhh!!
  
  Ok your parents send you in your room and your grounded for a week, how can i make the best of 
 this humm.. hey! let's play Battlefield2!! at least games don't punish you for no reasons!! oh... wait 
 it does.
  
  Yes in Battlefield 2 the AI in single player isnt very bright and they don't wait for you for the 
 gunner place in the choppers or planes and they run around not going for flags so you have to do 
 all the job. But wait!! let's play this online!! Yes in multiplayer Battlefield2 the real people 
 your playing with 
  don't wait for you for the gunner place in the choppers or planes and they run around not going 
 for flags so you have to do all the job humm.. at least i'm not getting punish for something i didn't 
 do! Oh wait... yes i am...
  
  Explain this to me, you shoot a missile to an ennemy plane you are locked on but it hits your teammates 
 plane (somehow) by mistakes and does teamdammage vehicule -1 point, you hit a ennemy doing ennemydamage 
 no points. You are in a tight situation were you are in a tank and ennemies are shooting rockets 
 at you, so you go foward and back trying to escape those rockets and an idiot teammmate passes 
 behind you and you run him over because you didn't saw him -2points because of course he punishes 
 you. You put mines on the ground were ennemy tanks and APCs passes to spawnkill you but an idiot 
 teammate goes trough your mines not watching where he's going -4points, because of course, he's 
 punishing you for his stupidity. An ennemy tank shooting your Hummer full of your C4 that you did'nt 
 detonate explodes and kills you and 2 teammates near the hummer you get -8 points you die and the 
 enemy tank still good to go. Everythings going wrong but it can only get better right?? Well of 
 corse not because your getting banned from your favorite server because of idiots. Thats Battlefiled2 
 . It's addictive to play cause you can have fun with it to gain ranks but so frustrating because 
 it's full of bugs and idiots. So AI singleplayer VS Multiplayer real people not much a differance.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Now i did write some other reviews and I gave'em all 10's because they were great games but you 
 MUST GET THIS GAME and i'll tell ya why. First of all this game has longer lasting appeal than 
 most FPS's for couple reasons:
  
  1.) This game has a rank system and an award system.
  2.) And although the single player is not good it's great for sharpening up your skills and accuracy.
 
  3.) Of course it's compatible with xfire (check out xfire. com)
  
  Now a little note for all gamer's out there this game DOES REQUIRE a rig to play you need a top 
 of the ling graphics card, I would recommend at least a 1GB RAM, and a sound card and speaker set 
 for the best quality for what your paying for.
  
  I did give it a shot trying to play the game on high end graphics it look AMAZING, DETAILED, and 
 yea you get XD. Gamers must get this game and be on the look out for Battlefield 2: Special Forces 
 Expansion Pack adding night time battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrNib
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2005 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the greatest war game to date with amazing graphics, realistic sound and 
 its awsome type of gameplay will get you hooked on this game and will make it hard to pull yourself 
 away from your computer. If you dont own it buy it right now, your missing out on all the fun! 
 Just because your comp isnt good enough doesnt me you can give it bad reviews. If you didnt play 
 it dont reveiw it. and if anyone wants to play me im MadClown5. hope you like the game, i did you 
 should its so pwnage 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth-revan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 16, 2005 6:17 pm PT
Review:  battlefield is the latest in the series and has a bit of bean there and done it, but really changes 
 the formula set down by its preddecessors by adding changes liek squads and the commander role, 
 while it was a little rough without the patches with things like you didnt get points for things 
 such as blowing up 3 tanks crouded with 6 people in them, even though it was cool i didnt get anything 
 for it even though the latest version changes that. the olny bad parts is that voice chat while 
 cool can also be annoying and the quick chat menu does just fineand also eveything else though 
 works fine, even though there could be more bots in single player. if you want a good singleplayer 
 experience run far away from this game, if you want a multiplayer experience hug it as though it 
 were your children or child. overall it improves on a formula that didnt need much change at all. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsnx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 16, 2005 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Well kind of hard for me to describe this game its good but kind 
  of not its really really good but i wish it were more like 007 but with gore
  and more violence 
 added to still learning about this game and 
  just might buy the new battlefield 2 specal forces coming in a while
  still look to buy it but 
 could someone like tell me more about it or something cause im still not convenced to get it well 
 i hope that the new battle field will bet slightly better the the one out right now thankyou
  for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nachliel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 8:36 am PT
Review:  The game is very good, The game is strongly recommended to everyone who have high connection speed, 
 and has strong computer.
  
  The game is very fun and adductive because the rank engine. all the time you want level up and 
 up and up. so the game is unlimited.
  
  there are lots of vehicles and tanks aircrafts and almost every thing that have to the army
  
 the game is not so much complex so every body can enjoy it ; )
  
  the game is not recommended to those who do not have internet or have slow connection speed; the 
 game has offline option with bots and such... but it; s not recommended at all!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slannmage
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 15, 2005 4:47 pm PT
Review:  What can i say? The game is really buggy and no suprize it's a DICE/Bf game!
  
  The graphics engine is poor and doesn't feel like it suits a FPS game, infact any game! The shadows 
 are weird and the water looks crap, i hate how it feels like swiming through water is scripted 
 :S
  
  The verifying server takes too long and by the time you get into a game the map changes soo fast 
 and you'll find yourself loading more than playing!
  
  The community is horrible and that goes along side the FF system where you get kicked for just 
 tk'ing 4 people withing the whole time your on the server! With stupid people suiciding into you 
 so you'll get kicked faster is annoying!
  
  They will run over your mines and vote against you so you get kicked or jump infront of your vehicle. 
 Even TK you so they get a plane b4 you!
  
  Please don't play this game, it's very bad! BF1942 is better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nazaric
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 15, 2005 2:56 pm PT
Review:  As I said it is a REALLY good game. Its mostly a multiplayer game, the single player is mostly 
 there just to get used to the game and to pratice if you are not so good. Another thing that makes 
 Battlefield 2 is that it not only for people who are sharp shooter but also for people who like 
 driving vehilces or for ppl who like air to ground/sea/air combat. Also tere is many different 
 kind of weapons for different people. Some people like the anti tank kit and some people like the 
 sniper kit. Also there is an option for player who are not good with direct combat; being the commader. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbiker16
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 15, 2005 11:50 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying, this was and OK game. I liked the first battlefield 1942 and the desert 
 combat mod that came out for it later on. There were some bugs and annoyances in the desert combat 
 mod that really made me mad and I was hoping they would fix in BF2. This is my opinion and my opinion 
 only.
  Let me start off with the thing that I like the most about the game; the graphics. This is where 
 they put a lot of effort into the game for the most part. The textures and visual quality of the 
 game is very good. The trees leaves blow in the wind and there is a very realistic feeling to 
 the game. Map and level editing is done very well. There is always enough room for vehicles and 
 planes dont have to worry as much that they will be flying out of the map in a few seconds as 
 was with the original. My only complaint is the game wasnt optimized well. You have to have a 
 top notch system with at least 2 GB of RAM to play this game well. 
  The next thing that was done very well was the gameplay. When you start playing this game, it will 
 get you hooked. Whether its riding in tanks or flying a plane, the fun never stops. Since there 
 is a lot of vehicles and different weapon classes, you will never get bored doing the same thing. 
 This is definitely one of the highlights of the game.
  Now I will talk about the things that should have been fixed. The first thing is the physics. In 
 recent games, physics have played a large role in how the game is played. This game falls short 
 in this category. The only physics you will get is the rag doll physics when someone is blown up 
 by artillery shells. If driving in a tank, a person cannot use its size to his/her advantage. Wooden 
 picket fences act like 5 inch thick concrete and a person cant even run over a sign. This adds 
 frustrating moments in the game where the tank is required to run over obstacles to get to the 
 objective. This adds a very generic feel to the game.
  Another thing that I was really hoping for that wasnt fixed was the sound. Sure, they sound realistic 
 and the artillery really does sound great but where this game falters is in length. Someone can 
 be shooting at you from 10 feet away and you would never hear it. The same thing goes with tanks 
 and explosions from long distances. This makes the game feel very unrealistic because it is quiet 
 most of the time.
  Like I said, this game is OK but nothing to save your money for. I would recommend getting something 
 like Counter-Strike Source with Half Life 2 and Day of Defeat or wait for Quake IV to come out. 
 If you are into a game that will give you some fun but not go the second step then Battlefield 
 2 is your game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayer666DSM
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 15, 2005 5:51 am PT
Review:  First off let me say this. This game rocks! Starting with the graphics on this. they are spectacular. 
 Hard to put into words exactly but they "belong" every detail seems to fit in perfectly with the 
 environment. Next the sound is also excellent, they really sound loud and ... great. Gameplay play 
 shooting is very slick also. The gun actually comes to face for real aiming not that baby crosshair 
 stuff. Its still though, Hahaha buts its funner that way. Now here's where it got kinda irritating 
 for me. I only bothered to play the single player missions and let me say im not that all impressed 
 with the AI work on this game. Its just ****ing awful. Sorry to put like that, but that's the perfect 
 word for it. The AI lacks any intelligence what so ever. What do mean you might ask? Well I'll 
 give you some scenarios that I was in. 1. Starting out for the first time I started I got ranover 
 by my own teammate from outta nowhere. Yea they apologize thats very nice but they really doesn't 
 help for the 15+ secs you have to wait to get back in there. May not seem like much but it will 
 if you try it. 2. The Bots don't even wait for a gunner in the choppers or in the planes, and they 
 only spawn once after they die. Next we got one here where these highly trained marines that are 
 acting like a bunch of idiots. They rarely if ever use cover in combat, when they atleast 30 meters 
 away from the enemy they whip out there knifes and go after them.....!!!! Oh and you'll get kick 
 outta this, When they get in the Blackhawk Chopper and want to insert their team of marines onto 
 the ground. Which they never really have to team to do this cause they never wait for them to get 
 in, But the whole teams just parachutes out, Yes YES even the Pilot and the gunner. and you can 
 watch it smash right into a hill. Very realistic, just toss a Million dollar chopper down the toilet 
 like what they are doing in Iraq right now. This really hurts the experience when you actually 
 notice this. Then you have this squad based stuff that mentioned before the game was coming out. 
 COMPLETELY USELESS. Not even close to what real squad would act like. NOT EVEN CLOSE. Well actually 
 theres way to much ridiculous crap to get into with that. Maybe the Multiplayer might be fun if 
 you can get to work. I've tried to make a online account but it just freezes when input the data 
 for sign up. If your wondering if there is background story to this or campaign you won't really 
 get much of anything there. Just the America is for some reason at war with China, oil? Who knows. 
 The other force you fight might make sense if they explain who your actually fighting they don't 
 seem like regular terrorists to me. There isn't campaign at all either, its exactly like Unreal 
 Tournament. Not that many single player levels either more 4 less than 8 if i remember correctly. 
 For lan same amount of levels just bigger sizes.... as your see so far EA games really wants to 
 punish people who like to play by themselves. If your still deciding if you want to get it or not, 
 the perfect description has come to mind. This is more like Battlefield 1942 except (better graphics) 
 (better sound) (same AI system to the exact no real changes what so ever from 1942) . They should 
 hire somebody for that job. Instead of just replicating the same old crap from 1942 - Vietnam - 
 This. I can't really say this game is worth buying or not. Depends if your interested in multi 
 internet play or not. Multi might be worth it. I'll never know, but you might if your into that. 
 For you into singleplayer stay away from this for little awhile until the price drops, I already 
 got bored with this game but I don't regret getting it for what I paid for. In case you don't know 
 there is demo out go and give that shot but nothing really changes after the demo, you just get 
 choppers and planes and 2 more Tanks, and the Chinese as a an ememy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavMange
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 14, 2005 9:22 pm PT
Review:  This will be a great game when they finally finish it. I would still consider it beta. And for 
 the following reasons... if you don't believe any of this.. just take a look at any Battlefield 
 2 forums lately. And don't start looking on EA's site for the forum.. they don't have one for BF2 
 most likely for PR reasons.
  
  Patch 1.03 "fixed" the bug where your teammates name would appear as the enemy's color. By fixing 
 this bug they made it more frequent.. good job EA. Sometimes they even appear with enemy clothing. 
 Besides the fact that you get a teamkill for killing them, you also get more negative points after 
 they punish you. After 3 patches later they can only make it worse as a solution.
  
  Patch 1.03 "fixed" the anti-air defense rockets to be more useful.. However, they didn't realize 
 that simply making the rockets fly faster doesn't help if you have a lock on the enemy and it veers 
 off and teamkills your team's jet whom you do not have a lock on... good job EA. Which your teammates 
 will gladly punish you for those tk's even though the game won't let you lock onto them. Besides.. 
 the flares from the jets reload just as fast as your rockets.. so if they are smart enough to use 
 flares you might as well not waste your time trying to shoot them down. They automatically know 
 you are in the anti-air turret because their mini map no longer shows the empty equipment on the 
 map.. they just drop some flares, turn around and then drop some bombs on your location.. it's 
 a death trap against skilled pilots.
  
  Patch 1.03 broke the ranking system. You can still gain points, but it was nice to see the progress 
 bar towards the next rank. In this new patch the progress bar is worthless.
  
  Patch 1.03 added a pop up message when you enter the game.. However, unlike games like Tribes 2 
 that actually display the message, you have to quit the game and load the web browser. This message 
 comes up every time, so it's really just pointless as it doesn't display anything about what the 
 message could be or whether it is a new message. This new feature of course broke other features. 
 You will now be unable to join a server using all seeing eye. And don't make the mistake of clicking 
 on the Play Now button.. that feature still needs to be improved to actually be useful. This sucks 
 because the in-game browser is still... broken. Be careful using those filters.. the list will 
 go blank and you will need to restart the game.. and those 15 seconds of their intro logos you 
 can't skip passed get really old after having to restart due to bugs.
  
  it's a good idea if you do not play this game with an Audigy 2.. they are still working on that.
 
  
  The minimum game specs are wrong.. it should say 512mb minimum to run and 2gb minimum if you want 
 to play the game without any stuttering issues. Even 1.5gb is not enough to completely get rid 
 of the stuttering. But I guess it's better than the huge memory leak from the first patch.
  
  The game has a built in time limiter so you don't play too long. It tends to crash to the desktop 
 for unknown reasons every few hours. But some get invalid cd key errors and invalid content errors 
 only after the 1.03 patch and can't even play.. so I guess I'm one of the lucky ones.
  
  If you haven't bought this game yet.. I would hold off until they release another patch.. then 
 read the forums to see if it actually fixed anything. Most of us who bought the game are holding 
 off.. yet again.. for another patch to fix this game. If you could play this game without any bugs 
 or issues.. it would definately be a 9.0 or even higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandstroker
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 14, 2005 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is soooooo dam AMAZING. i love the huge new battles with an highly extended player limit.
 
  
  GENRAL: if you have ever played a battlefield game then think you u know what to expect, but this 
 time around take that thought and kill it, then burn it, then back up on it. this is nothing like 
 1942 or vietnam. this thing is a beast! with the create a charachter on ea's online, amazing new 
 graphics, sound, and gameplay.
  
  GRAPHICS: one word for these HOLY S^%#. this game even blows away other games graphics by a mile, and 
 including the GIANT amount of players it can have running on one server, this is pure bliss. the 
 downside is it requires pretty high system specs and a lot of ghz. But if u upgraded for games like 
 HL@ and doom 3 you should be fine.
  
  SOUND: these sounds are really nice crisp and clean. with so many people playing and so many shots 
 flying past youre head and the sound of a bullet from a sniper hitting the corner right in front 
 of you is actually scary. new music is nice but nothing to write home about but mainly only being 
 on the menu's makes it very ignorable.
  
  GAMEPLAY: well if you like you and a squad of over 32 people charging into a raging battle with 
 gunshots and artillery hittng hard on the buildings, ground, walls right next to you and like the 
 fact that its all so very realistic. then this game is for you! almost never do you find youreself 
 alone in the better servers. and with all the new genral and squad leader features, this game provides 
 one immersive as hell experience, literally putting you RIGHT IN THE BATTLE!
  
  VALUE: I dont know if i will ever get bored of this game.... period... this game will fill me up 
 till the next BF game (or the new expansion pack coming soon enough)
  
  great game.. if u have the pc to run it GO OUT TO BUY IT NOW!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opuliski2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 14, 2005 12:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is WONERFUL i have been played this only in my friend but i love it it's just so cool 
 to play in net!!! Only bad think is single player that's boried.
  
  
  
  
  
  SO IF SOMEBODY WANT BUY THIS GAME BUY IT IF U LIKE PLAYING IN INTERNET! 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyrosFury
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2005 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - This game blew me away from the first second I took control. The controls are simple 
 and easy to pick up, my only complaint is the flight controls. If you don't have a joystick, then 
 don't bother trying to fly the high-speed jets and stick the the ground, water, or choppers.
  
  Graphics - Sweet buddha!! Some of the best graphics of any game on the market, if you've got 
 the hardware to run this system hog.
  
  Sound - Awesome sound effects, but the music is nothing to get your panties in a bunch over.
 
  
  Value - This game is well worth it's 50 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benitus
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2005 1:17 am PT
Review:  This game if simply awsome!!
  
  The new squad system gives alot to the team work n the voice over ip system is pretty usefull to 
 communicate quickly with your teamates.
  
  The vehicules are good n well balanced. The different classes makes the game cool for the aspect 
 that u need to be good in each of them to really become a god player.
  
  All of your stats on ranked server or store on the bfhq server n u can compare yourself to the 
 best player n see an amazing amount of stats. You can unlock one gun for each class n u unlock 
 them when u reach your next rank, bcz all the point u got on rank server r cumulate n u be promoted 
 when u reach the requirement. U can also be promote for medals, badge n ribbon that r each of them 
 a different requirement. A very Good Game!!
  
  Best of the bf series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharth00
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2005 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Tactics: Tactically, the game is sound, the quickchat commands are useful, and the game is relatively 
 easy to use. However, most players don't have or don't use a microphone, which detracts from gameplay. 
 Packaging this one with a headset would be brilliant.
  
  Unlockables: The unlockables are rarely, if ever, useable on any server, and are, although a badge 
 of pride, useless.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is great, save for a few weapon difficulties and a little too much health, 
 which was fixed in the last patch. Battlefield 2 is definately a great buy, gameplaywise.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are spectacular, but. . . You need a fast processor with Hyper Threading, 
 a lot of DDR RAM (about 1 GB) , and a GeForce6 series graphics card, in order to run the game on 
 full graphics settings without any issues.
  
  Overall: Battlefield 2 is a solid game, which focuses on gameplay and teamwork instead of blowing 
 eachother up and "painting the floor red," which is a welcome relief from the overly graphic violence 
 of F. E. A. R. and Half-Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehReinkarnate
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 12, 2005 8:07 pm PT
Review:  For gameplay, the infantry combat and movement, while much improved, is still simplistic and inferior 
 to games like Call Of Duty. The maps are large and much of the combat, therefore, is focused on 
 vehicles, which have pretty good gameplay, excluding planes, which are horrid and should never 
 have been put in the game. Not only are they the cause of many a teamkill, be it by bombing, or 
 by plane campers, but they are also just so unrealistic that they aren't fun. Tanks and helicopters 
 are nice, but the gunner seat in the attack chopper is overpowered. Infantry combat, as stated, 
 has been improved, but what irks me is how unrealistic it is. I'm not lying to you when I tell 
 you that it takes 6 shots with the M16 to kill somebody, in the stomach area, and 3 with the semi-automatic 
 sniper rifle. The snipers are shaky when it comes to accuracy as well, which is a blow considering 
 it takes 2-3 shots to kill unless it is a headshot. And the shellshock effect on explosions is 
 horribly implemented. Its realistic for it to last even minutes, but for a game's sake, just cut 
 it down to 5 seconds of dizziness, and don't make it feel exactly like lag, it should feel like 
 shellshock. The screen should blur and shake.
  
  The graphics are fantastic. On one condition. That you have them on high. But because of the requirements 
 on this game, high is not an option for many gamers, and the graphics look like dirt on low when 
 you compare the two. As they say, graphics are only as good as your video card, and that is certainly 
 the case with this game, but since low is so much worse than high, points have been deducted.
 
  
  The sound in this game is decent, average in all respects. The gunshots sound semi-realistic, making 
 a popping noise rather than a bang, but then you still get the pistols that sound like a spitball 
 rather that a bullet when you fire them. The vehicle sounds are decent, and the voices are ok. 
 The problem is that the sound does nothing to truely immerse you in the experience. The sounds 
 just seem very quiet, with the exception of explosions. Once again, look at Call of Duty. The sounds 
 in the single player and multiplayer are just so intense and so amazing that they just get you 
 into the experience and give you sweaty palms from excitement. Battlefield 2 should take a hint 
 from this.
  
  Some things that are missing:
  
  A proper single player - In single player I don't want multiplayer with braindead bots, I want 
 a story and immersive combat with objectives.
  
  Some key Multiplayer features - A friends list, for example.
  
  Maps - There are only 13 of 
 them and they do get old very quickly.
  
  The ability to lean - How hard can it be to implement? Its not a farfetched thing to ask for.
 
  
  A decent community - I have played this game for many hours, and one of the main reasons I stopped 
 playing was because of the sheer amount of smacktards and idiots playing it. I'm talkin bunnyhoppers, 
 grenade launcher noobs who can't use guns, people who only use rocket launchers, vehicle campers, 
 teamkillers, commanders who don't command unless they need a supply crate or if they want to artillery 
 somebody who killed them, people who camp when they are the last person left when all flags are 
 gone, prolonging the end while not trying to take a flag, the list goes on.
  
  Now, this is not to say that it is a terrible game, there is a lot of fun to be had if you get 
 a good squad going, but that happens so rarely that I can't say much for it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspadeaspade
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 8, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Like most EA games, BF2 shipped utterly bug ridden. The server browser barely worked. Setting up 
 the controls didn't work. The "Play Now" button not only didn't work, but would leave the game 
 unresponsive forever. Load times were (and still are) outright glacial.
  
  None of this matters once the game starts. 
  
  You and dozens of other players are placed in 
 a virtual warzone. The overriding objective amounts to capture the flag, which is nothing new. 
 The difference here is how many ways you can do it, and how seamlessly integrated they are. 
  
  Revive fallen soldiers in frantic firefights as a medic. Crawl along the ridge overlooking 
 the enemy airfield with a scoped .50 caliber rifle. Destroy enemy vehicles with a rocket launcher. 
 Man the door gun on a Black Hawk. Drive a tank through the streets of a middle eastern city. All 
 of these are well enough done that if only one was all there was to the game it'd already be pretty 
 good - but you can do all of them within the space of a few minutes and the transition from one 
 to another is as simple as grabbing a discarded weapon or jumping into a passing jeep.
  
  And the whole while, you're talking on a headset in real time with your squadmates around you.
 
  
  BF2 is a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGS3-SSV2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 12, 2005 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10
  
  The graphics in this game are just marvelous. The greatest quality graphics in videogames can be 
 seen in this game. Battlefield 2 is a resources hug, but it is totally worth it.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  The inmersive gameplay is innovative and addictive. Infinite possibilities 
 make this the best multiplayer and single player game on PC.
  
  Sound: 9
  
  Great sound effects, great weapon sounds and the incorporation of VoIP just goes on par with the 
 game.
  
  Value: 9
  
  The price is right!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 10
  
  You know, go upgrade your PC, buy this game and leave your girlfirend/wife forever. This game is 
 too addictive for its own good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no_pants_4_u
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 12, 2005 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2's immersion is excellent. From the moment you step on the battlefield the sounds, 
 explosions, and fast paced (but deep) gameplay will hook you. There is a built in stat tracking 
 system which monitors your progress in terms of what weapons you prefer to use to how many times 
 you've won in a match on a particular faction, so its fairly detailed for novice and stat monkey 
 alike. Additionally, as you progress through the game you move up the ranks accordingly, giving 
 you the ability to unlock new weapons as you go. But lets jump into the meat and potatoes of the 
 game: The moment you hit the dirt (or water) . The graphics in this game are incredible even on 
 lower end systems. The fact that there is a fairly steep learning curve to it (considering you 
 are playing against veteran human twitch bots to start) may turn off some, but otherwise it gives 
 even 'noob's' the chance to survive due to its versatility. You can play as one of several classes 
 that you can switch off during the battle should the need arise. Covering everything from medic 
 to an assault class, everyone will find a favorite (or several) to play as. Soundwise, its great-the 
 explosions are detailed and scaled very well pending on where you are in relativity to where it 
 goes off. Everything from the bullets hitting different textures to that oh so sickeningly sweet 
 sound of bullets hit clothing and then flesh (a dull thud) - you'll be amazed at the detail. 
  
  The control scheme is very friendly and forgiving, though there is much to learn its fairly 
 'intuitive' to the gameplay style and very easily picked up by those with no former experience. 
 Replayability is naturally endless (and will be more so once the expansion packs start rolling 
 in no doubt soon-as of this review, one is already in production and slated for release soon) as 
 is the value of the game: The fact that EVERY single battle pitched is different from the last 
 in terms of how varied the maps are, who you are playing against, what faction you are, and the 
 kit you are using to mow them down... its quite exhaustive to think of all the scenarios that take 
 place. Its really an excellent game, worthy of many hours of the cash you plunk down for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief0292
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2005 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Well this game was the reason i went out and bought a 2000 dollar pc. The long awaited sequal to 
 bf 1942, and was it worth the wait hell yeh, this game is one of the most fun and action packed 
 game's i have ever played. The feeling u get when ur on top of a building sniper and then a missle 
 comes flying by u. The game is a blast to play and to look at. Every ones complaining about load 
 times, first off there not really that bad and i rather wait 30 seconds, for a killer game than 
 15 seconds for a mediocre game. And all the vehichles are a blast to drive, 64 players online simply 
 the best pc fps since half life. By it or u will regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indoor76
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 12, 2005 2:32 am PT
Review:  I have to say that the bots in singel player are almost perfect.
  they will suplly you with ammo, medic, fix your vehicles
  and give you a ride.
  another good 
 thing is the option of swiching weapons by choosing them
  before with your mouse roll.
  the enemy is a little bit boaring and he just standing there while he waiting
  for you to shoot 
 him. 
  I think that this is the only thing thats not right in this game
  another thing is the distance between you to the other camp to his flag.
  most of the times theres 
 a vehicle for you to ride or a crew with a vehicle to picke you up, but when you don't have one 
 it can be very very boaring to
  walk (the walk is not to fast too) a long road.
  you can forget what I sayd... it's a realy good game! buy it!
  9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webserfer1980
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 11, 2005 11:28 pm PT
Review:  This is absolutly the best war game I have ever played. I get bored with games easily but with 
 all of the different kits and weapons I have been stuck to my computer for hours. I cant wait for 
 the expantion pack to come out so I can play more. I personally love to play support roles like 
 engineer medic or support. I think this game has something for everone. I am totally addicted. 
 This game has some of the best grafics around expecially considering the scale of the battlefield. 
 I just think it is awsome that it is bid enough to fly a jet around in but small enough that you 
 can always find an enemy. I feel that this is a definate buy for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenJaws219
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 11, 2005 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Those of you who are looking for some good old offline shooter, you better write Battlefield 2 
 off your list, Ea fails to add some meaningful campaign and storyline into what would be a masterpiece 
 of first-person shooter, instead they put all their effort into the online-play instead, and it 
 paid off tremedously.
  
  The online-play is the best yet in a FPS, there are a total of 7 classes ranging from special force, 
 assault, sniper, support, medic, anti-tank and engineer, each with a useful ability to change the 
 tide of battle and carry their own unique weapons. All the weapons are fairly equal in effectiveness, 
 it jsut depends on how you use them. The feeling of getting a hard-earned kill is satisfying. There 
 are squads with a squad leader that can issue commands and recieve commands from the commander. 
 The commander is possibly the best aspect of this game, allowing you to scan the map for enemies 
 and call in an artillery strike and drop supplies for your troops. A good commander foten decides 
 the outcome of the battle.
  
  This is one heck of a game, but when EA ignores the single-player section of the game, it didn't 
 quite get many perfect 10's from reviews but mostly 9's for its excellent online multiplayer, the 
 sound of the weapons and artillery is convincing and you can often pinpoint the location of your 
 enemies one they shoot you, which helps in a fast-pace game of who spots who first. There are ranks 
 and unlocks for weapons, but the weapons aren't that much of a boost, and you can really do fine 
 with the ones you begin with. This would be a masterpiece if EA puts some work into the single-player.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: osucoates29
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 11, 2005 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great follow up to battlefield 1942 and battlefield vietnam. This games graphics 
 are a true huge improvement. With all the sounds and good special effects, you litterally feel 
 like you are over seas fighting the war. I also loved how you were givin the chance be able to 
 bring players back from the dead, by being a medic. You can heal those who need it, and bring back 
 those knocked out. The other weapons you can choose are great too. This game is great, and if you 
 havent got it yet, get it. And remember, God bless our troops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _raven
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2005 11:48 am PT
Review:  I Bought Battlefield 2 about a month ago and havent reviewed it until now because i wanted to take 
 it through its paces and give an honest review that I hope people can really use.
  
  First lets talk about the game play in general. There is no story to Battlefield 2 {which from 
 here on I will call BF2} . This might be a let down for some people but you wont miss hearing about 
 how the Chinese decided to attack America or how the middle east decided to join forces its just 
 not that important. But before I go into how you play the game if you think you can enjoy this 
 game with just the single player stop right now and forget it. The single player stinks its just 
 fighting 16 retarted AI bots that constantly run over you with vehicles. Now about the core of 
 the game MULTIPLAYER. There is only one type of game mode conquest, in conquest you must capture 
 the opposing teams flag, which are also spawn points. The more flags your team has the faster the 
 opposing team lose tickets or how many times the opposing team players can spawn.
  
  Now lets talk about the vehicles. There are 10 vehicles that you can operate which equals 30 because 
 each country vehicles are somewhat different. The vehicles controls are pretty simple W goes forward 
 A and D turn and S goes backward. The mouse is free look for all vehicles except for planes and 
 helicopters, which act like a joystick. The only problem I had with the controls is flying planes 
 is too hard with the mouse so I changed it to my joystick. There are 4 classes of vehicle armor, 
 transport, helicopter, and plane. Armor has APC's, tanks, and AA vehicles. Transport has dune buggys, 
 humvees, and transport boats. Helicopter has transport choppers, and attack choppers. Plane has 
 fighters, and two seater bombers. All the vehicles are pretty balanced the armor is weak to planes 
 and helo's but strong to transport and other armor. Planes are weak to AA but strong against Helo's. 
 This is kind of the system for BF2 and it works there is no overpowering vehicle except the transport 
 chopper but the new 1.03 patch takes care of that
  
  BF2 is more than just vehicle VS vehicle there is the infantry that you spawn as. There are 7 classes 
 of infantry; Anti tank, medic, engineer, support, assault, sniper, and Special Forces. The ground 
 forces are really the main part of the game you will chose what class you want to be at the start 
 of every round and can change if necessary. Most people will chose a class based on their personality 
 and stick with that class personally I like the support class. Infantry to infantry fighting can 
 be quite fun the aiming system like most First Person Shooters is the cone of uncertainty which 
 means the tighter the cross hairs are the more accurate the weapon is. This system is good for 
 most guns but for the support and engineer classes the guns are very inaccurate but this systems 
 evens the classes because who wants to be mowed down by the worlds most accurate 50. Cal heavy 
 machine gun. There is no blood in BF2 so parents shouldnt be afraid of that. Another cool thing 
 you can do is form squads were some one is the squad leader and gives orders to team members. Another 
 cool thing the game does is keeps track of your score and when you have enough points you will 
 be promoted to a new rank in which you can unlock new weapons and awards. 
  
  Now for the technical stuff first the graphics. The graphics on this game are amazing the intro 
 movie when start is actual game play if you turn all effects and shaders on high but sadly most 
 wont be able to enjoy the full graphics. The reason for this is if don have the latest graphic 
 cards your computer wont be able to process the graphics, I have a brand knew dell and I still 
 cant put the graphics on high. Now the sound the sound on this game is pretty good but some of 
 the guns and hydraulics for vehicles dont sound right but the cool thing you can do is live chat 
 with a mic to your teammates. When you finally take a flag using the mic to coordinate an air strike 
 and ground assault the feeling you get is awesome. Now you must I mean MUST have a good internet 
 connection n order to enjoy BF2 I mean like DSL or broadband because you have to have a fast connection 
 to play multiplayer dial up modems wont be able to handle this big boy
  
  In conclusion I have given BF2 a score of 9.4 the balancing of infantry weapons was my only complaint 
 if you like infantry/vehicle combat or just want a fun multiplayer experience then I highly recommend 
 BF2. My screen name is Lt. dan_1972 I usually play on gamecenter servers so if you ever see give 
 me a shout out. LT. DAN OVER AND OUT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chregu
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 11, 2005 4:57 am PT
Review:  Forword: I never played Battlefield 1942, or any of its expansions. Buying this game was a quick 
 decision in my local software shop. But to my surprise this game. despite many bugs, has kept me 
 occopied ever since. 
  
  Interface: The interface is very straight forward. Making an account is as easy as 5 cklick. Be 
 sure though, that you're happy with your nick name. You won't be able to change it later on. With 
 the last pacht (1.03) you're at least able to add a prefix to it.
  
  Gameplay: Playing the game is quite repetetive. Don't get me wrong. It's fun. But there's only 
 one gamemode to be played (Conquest) . How much fun a game is depends heavily on your squad members. 
 If your team's working togehter, it's unstopable. If everyone works on their own, you might better 
 look out for another one. Teamplay is the key to success. 
  
  Graphics: The game looks gorgeous. The player models are very detailed and so are the vehicles. 
 The sourrounding is coverd with grass and trees, stones and beaches. It often find myself marveling 
 at the scenery. 
  
  System: It's well playable on a labtop. Just make sure you have pleanty of RAM. The more the better. 
 1024 MB RAM is barely enough. With 2 GB RAM loading times decrease dramaticly (from up to 2min 
 down to 30sec) .
  
  Conclusion: This game is a must have fr anyone who likes to play online once and again. The recently 
 lowered ranks (levels) add more to the dedication for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-BoY2005
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 11, 2005 2:26 am PT
Review:  CS and CS: CZ is my time of game. I play it very often and never ever had any other game distract 
 me from this. However, since I bought CS: Source and BF2 almost the same time, I spent nearly zero 
 time for CS but all for BF2. It's cool game. I've never played any prvious BF game and I think 
 BF2 is real cool. I even upgrade my PC hardware just becuz I want to have a good graphic and good 
 game play. In fact, high level of hardware requirement is the only downsize I reckon.
  
  I like to the way the game can provide such as riding a cool Hammer, firing from the tankz, flying 
 chopper and fighter plane. All are easily controlled except chopper and fighter, I found it very 
 difficult to manuoveur (I admit that it's my own ability to learn to control, I'm a slow learner 
 for gaming control) .
  
  All the soldier kits and weapons is well design, well thought. I can really choose one kit to be 
 a best one, all are equally important in the battlefield. So, when I play single player, I just 
 randomly choose any kits to play. It's fun to practice in single. Multiplayer even more fun and 
 cool. VoIP is real important to communicate in the field as typing msg is too slow for such a thrill 
 action FPS.
  
  I can't wait to gain more point to unlocked all the weapons (even though I'm real slow in gaining 
 point) . I give an overall 9.5/10 for this game ;) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: junk56
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 10, 2005 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Okay first things first, this game is totally awesome. The gameplay, the amount of weapons, the 
 intensity, the vehicles, the graphics, you name it. It's stuffing the best of CS and mixed in with 
 Battlefield 1942. The game is just very fun. There are many things that just ticked me off and 
 stopped me from playing this game over and over again.
  
  Firstly, the loading times are horrendous. I have to wait at least 2 minutes for it to load and 
 sometimes even longer. I want to just jump in and play the game but the loading times hold you 
 back. Even worse, some servers reject you right when you've waited 4 minutes for the loading bar 
 to fill. Loading times are very long especially if u have a mid-ranged computer like me.
  
  Secondly, once you die you get "instant" respawn right? Wrong, the respawns usually take 15 seconds. 
 15 seconds from a 10 minute round is a lot. Sometimes you just respawn, walk around for 2 seconds, 
 and you have to wait 15 seconds again. It's a nice idea putting in the "critical condition" method 
 in it and waiting for the medic but 99% of the time in multiplayer games, THERE IS NO MEDIC TO 
 SAVE YOU! When you're in critical condition and lying down, you just wait there for a full 15 seconds 
 while if you die you can at least watch different players instead of the sky.
  
  Finally, the game is great graphically wise but the binding of the buttons is just chaotic. So 
 is the optimization of shaders. I don't want crappy shaders, I want nice shadows but i don't have 
 a WOW video card. All the shadows turn into blocks now..... And the binding of the keys takes forever 
 and ever and ever. And i thought binding keys were hard on other games.....
  
  The good: Amazing Gameplay, Very cool, feels like you're in the game, amazing graphics, amazing 
 sound,.
  
  The Bad: Almost no recoil at all, shotgun is useless, can't choose weapon & pack, long load times, 
 long dead times, too easy to tk, no storyline, repetitive after a few months. Machine hog ( so 
 i can't play with my friends cuz they dont have nice computers) , and no big mods or anything like 
 Counter striker Modders. 
  
  Bottom Line: If you liked Call of Duty, You'll love this game. If you want something fast paced 
 and exciting, take a look at this but move over the F. E. A. R. Great game, gotta be patient. (if 
 you're used to CS recoil, you can spray all you want in this game for you will never miss) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWalrusKing
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I originally wrote a good review on how terrible this game performed. I installed a total of 1 
 gig ddr ram and now it runs flawlessly, that patch prob helped too. It should play better i feel 
 the accuracy on the guns isnt always perfect, imo. Also some of the maps are awesome some are so-so. 
 But I hope they keep improving it and it just might get alot better. The graphics are good for 
 this type of game and the sound, especially the jets is sweet.
  
  However I still have a bitter taste in my mouth on the quality of the game at launch and wont be 
 buying the expansion, atleast until they fix it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minaeitea
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 10, 2005 8:51 pm PT
Review:  It is a good game! But it's very hard do understand wich is multiplayer or singleplayer . I just 
 buy it and play few days, it's cool but necessary is the blood. The graphics is WOW even my computer 
 can't hold it any more (it makes restarts because the videocard overburn it: ( )
  
  At the end i say we should make these cool games again:=) !! And more battlefields sould be make 
 like Battlefield 3 or 4. I haven't played all batllefields but only the battlefield 2 . The difficult 
 is JUST RIGHT. Time Spent Playing, to Date is 10 to 20 Hours. Learning Curve 30 to 60 minutes because 
 to me is very hard game. Classification is Amazing because the graphics are very super good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WintryFrenchie
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 10, 2005 8:17 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Pretty much everything about this game earns an A+. The gameplay is astounding. The fact that it 
 is online gives plenty of replay value to last you for years and the ability to increase in rank 
 keeps you playing it until the wee hours of the morning.
  
  The ability to become commander is particularily fun as well. There is nothing as satisfying as 
 sitting behind some long-forgotten cover while hailing down artillery on your enemies. Be careful 
 though, other team members don't really appreciate being blown to smitheriens by their commander.
 
  
  The Bad:
  
  The only negative side to this game that I found was a) it hogged a computer's resources with its 
 massive system requirements and b) it was maybe too addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyjoebob_jr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 10, 2005 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Graphics on low quality looks excellent, you can choose to how you fight (anywhere from being a 
 sniper, using stealth, in a tank, or flying in a jet)
  
  Main problem I can find is that you can't listen to music while you drive
  
  It's fairly hard 
 to figure out how to effectively use a jet, but once you learn there's a feeling of freedom while 
 you fly
  
  The Squad thing seems like it would be very useful... but no one acually wants to be in a squad, 
 plus not many people follow the leader's commands
  
  The new Commander system is acually quite hard to use properly; you have to earn people's trust, 
 direct where the squads go, plan artillery strikes so that you can hit alot of the other team's 
 men without your taking a chunk out of your own men, while fighting yourself!
  
  Pretty much, I'd suggest this game to people who like to choose how they fight, and are fine with 
 the fact that you don't hear music while you fight 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheshireEnigma
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 10, 2005 6:27 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't played Battlefield 1942, any of the expansions, or Battlefront (an inferior game 
 to the former, but has the same formula) , the game play of Battlefield 2 will come as a refreshing 
 surprise; otherwise, you will find a game that builds on the strong foundation of Battlefield 1942 
 with varying success.
  
  Like its predecessor, two opponents fight it out on the battlefield. Tickets keep track of how 
 many respawns a side has and can be drained at an accelerated rate if one team controls more respawn 
 points than the other. You can choose from five different classes to wage war upon your opponents, 
 though you'll find that many of them are similar. Also at your disposal are a large variety of 
 land, sea, and air vehicles.
  
  Different in Battlefield 2 is the Commander position and the integration of squads into the tactical 
 part of the game, though it often comes down to an individual player's willingness to give up the 
 Rambo-like glory to follow a given order. The Commander is given several unique abilities which 
 aid his effectiveness in guiding the battle. Sensor drones unveil an area of the tactical map (which 
 he will get a full sized version of, showing positions of his troops as well as enemies in their 
 sight range) and supply drops can aid your troops in a drawn-out firefight. Squads stand to make 
 the Commander's life easier by grouping several soldiers together so he may give groups general 
 orders, such as attack a point or defend an area.
  
  The additions to Battlefield 2 are well thought-out and planned. No one is forced into a squad, 
 meaning if your goal is to go it alone, you may do so, but if you're goal is to participate in 
 a squad, then you are fully able to do that as well. Commanders are in much the same position, 
 but equally beneficial. With every tool to be a strong team-based game, Battlefield 2 offers just 
 that.
  
  Unfortunately, it requires some patience. Online play, the intended setting for this game, can 
 be technically challenging. Only recently was the server browser improved (version 1.03) to the 
 point of competence, and still it leaves something to be desired. If you're planning on playing 
 the game over a LAN, you'll find that you can only play maps at the 16 players size unless you 
 download a user-made mod. Long and confusing loading times (what takes so long?) can make entering 
 a game an obnoxious experience as many times by the time you finally enter, the server has rotated 
 maps. Several points in the game also feel sloppy. Guns are inaccurate and weak when compared to 
 the crosshairs and sounds. And since the guns are bound to the classes, many classes become less 
 useful due to their weak and inaccurate weapons.
  
  Overall, Battlefield 2 offers the same fun game play that Battlefield 1942 offered, only with more 
 emphasis on team play. With a little work on behalf of the developers and patience from the gamers, 
 this game can become something even better than its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bullet_Song
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 10, 2005 6:22 pm PT
Review:  First off I must get this out, artillery is truly a nightmare come true to grunt in the field. 
 This game hits all the targets and then knocks you out afterwards. The single player is lacking 
 with it's 16 player map size so it is not an advisable purchase if you do not have a decent high 
 speed connection.
  The multiplayer is where its at. If you are looking for 64 player mayhem with battlefield franchise 
 goodness get your fill here. I still have nightmares of F-15s strafing my team's armoured colomns. 
 The addition of squads is the cream of this wonderful MP experience. The addition of Voice over 
 IP (VOIP) is another welcomed feature. If you are looking for a great SP game look elsewhere. The 
 commander mode was another welcomed feature. It gives the ability of one player per team to have 
 a RTS style overview and the ability to launch UAVs and call in arty and supply drops (which replace 
 ammo crates) .
  The graphics are not what they should be on medium to lower end systems as the game is a terrible 
 system hog. Advisable to have at least one gig of RAM and a newer GPU if you want anywhere near 
 playable framrates. those were my only beef with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acurev
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2005 5:40 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks! flat out! 
  Gameplay 10/10: The gameplay is just amazing. Running around huge and awesome looking environments 
 shooting and getting shot at. Bullets wizzing past you. Your yelling for your teammates, Making 
 stratigies, just an awesome feeling. Even if your playing single player the game is awesome!
  
  Graphics 10/10: The graphics in my opinion are just stunning. Any videos or screens you see 
 on this site or others just dont do the game justice. I run the game with everything on high accept 
 for the textures which are on medium, otherwise their would be lots of stuttering, the games run 
 awesome and looks awesome. I dont have some top of the line super computer either. I have an AMD 
 64 3000+ skt 939 @2.15ghz 1gb PC3200 Ram Dual Channel, AGP8x 6600GT oced to 540/1.14ghz and the 
 game flys! As far as people having problems I havent expirienced any but if there were to be some 
 I would assumed they were taking care of in the latest patch.
  
  Sound 10/10: I run the sound on high with EAX enabled. I only have a Sound Blaster Live 5.1 and 
 it still sounds AWESOME. the sounds are so crisp and clear and you become very immersed in the 
 game.
  
  Overall 10/10: I dont see any flaws in this game. just like CS you can play a level over and over 
 and over and it doesnt get boring! I love it! which also adds to the replay value... there is no 
 single player campaign but you can play solo with AI and the AI is pretty good and fun to play 
 with if you dont feel like playing online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvnwnd1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 10, 2005 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok, i know many COD fans say you die too quickly, and that it is not hard at all, but this game 
 deserves some dues. The designers were very good at creating fast and fun gameplay, true to the 
 series. The weapons are very accurate, and the teams are built equally aswell. I really enjoy the 
 way you can easily slide into the squad gameplay, and it is nice to know that someone is looking 
 out for you. I find the game to be the best of the series, the climax of the battlefield series. 
 It will be interesting to see where it goes form here, but i do recomend it to anyone who is interested 
 in the fps game world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cesiao
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 10, 2005 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a first-person shooter in the middle of a fictional conflict between the nations: USA, China, 
 and a middle-eastern coallision. Battlefield 2 is the follow-up to the top-selling games: Battlefield 
 1942 & Battlefield Vietnam. So as a follow-up the game gotta reach some high standards to be aknowledged. 
 But that is something Battlefield 2 succeds greatly in, both graphicly & gameplay-wise. Lean back 
 and listen to the awesome explosions, and gun sounds.
  
  BF2's gameplay is much like Vietnam, you run around trying to steal the flag from enemy bases, and 
 move on. Of course, you gotta expect to take down some enemies on your way too. There are several 
 new classes in BF2, if I am correct there is the Special Forces, the Support, and the medic. Special 
 Forces have the ability to plant C4, and they are basically this stealth infiltration group. While 
 support can kill a huge amount of enemies with few shots, and has the ability to replenish ammo 
 for people. The medic can revive and heal members, and has a weapon on par with the Special Forces 
 equipment. A few new features are also added, among them the Squads, and the commanding position
 
  
  You now have the ability to form a squad, this opens up to whole new means of tactics, not only can 
 you talk to your squad directly using a microphone set, you can also issue simple commands. These 
 commands will draw a line to the area of command, with the order to attack, defend etc.
  You can also request artillery or supplies. And this is where the commander comes in...
  
  The 
 commander is in charge of the aquads, he get's the requests for artillery or supplies. The commander 
 can perform a scan for all enemies (except Special Forces) Release a huge artillery upon the enemy, and 
 his own unites if they don't get out of the way. He can drop supplies if needed, even put up a radar 
 so that people can see where a huge pack of the enemies are gathering.
  
  The last big new feature on Battlefield 2 is the rank system, where you gain points from kills, flag 
 captures, heals, and commanding. By gaining this you can unlock new weapons, and medals. This also 
 affects your chance of getting applied as commander, since the user with most points usually get's 
 the job.
  
  Furthermore, the game doesn't have all those fancy songs you had in Vietnam, rather the game has 
 gone over in a more realistic fashion. With actual real-life gun & airplane noise. The specter 
 of sounds is just great, though I do miss those catchy tunes from Vietnam.
  
  When you're close to a tank who fires it's payload your screen get's kinda fuzzy and the sound 
 turns over in a summing noise, due to the high volum of sound, and the impact upon your character. 
 This is just awesome, and feeling that with a surround you really get blown away.
  
  The graphics of the game is great, some of the best I've seen, though it requires a pretty strong 
 computer to drive. Not worring to much about that, I must say this is one of the more spectacular 
 graphics I have seen. 
  
  The Battlefield 2 developers do not disappoint, again they have brought us one of the most thrilling 
 FPS to this date. With it's awesome graphics, wicked sounds, and mindblowing gameplay they've created 
 a game that will be remembered for a long time... or 'till it's sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannon3231
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 10, 2005 11:27 am PT
Review:  Overall the graphics, design, and gameplay of this game are everything you'd expect from another 
 version of Battlefield. What's really missing in this version is the ability to play by yourself 
 or a small group of friends. Sure, you can play small singleplayer maps with the bots, or do a 
 LAN map with a few friends, but 1) There is no campaign (as there was in 1942) and 2) there is 
 no way to play with bots AND humans at the same time. That means that if you and five buddies want 
 to play, and use jets or choppers... be ready to spend ten minutes finding anyone on a huge map. 
 This game works beautifully for large groups or for play online, but if you're only intending to 
 keep this game on a small scale... steer clear of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2005 1:07 am PT
Review:  I've never really enjoyed the Battlefield games all that much. I've probably only put in 6 hours 
 of multiplayer in BF 1942, and probably only 2 hours at the most in BF Vietnam. I've got around 
 15 hours in BF 2 and I'm enjoying every second of it.
  
  Gameplay: If you have played the other Battlefield games then you know what to expect from this 
 game. You have to capture control points on a map that causes your opponents tickets to drop, first 
 one to 0 loses. You can select from seven different solder classes, assult, medic, support, special 
 forces, anti-tank, sniper, and engineer. They all have different abilities, for example assult, 
 support, and anti-tank get armor but they can't sprint as long as the other classes. Medics can 
 hand out health pack or revive dead solders. The support class can hand out ammo packs, the special 
 forces class has C4 that will stick to just about anything, and the engineer can repair vehicles, 
 artillary, radar stations, and UAV stations. You can drive a handfull of modern military vehicles 
 like the humvee, APC, Abrams and T-72 tank, helos (attack and transport) , and fighter jets. All 
 this stuff is common to other BF games, but what really sets this game apart is that ability to 
 creat squads and to have a commander overseeing the battle. 
  This is what makes BF 2 so much greater then the past BF games. Teamwork in the past BF games was 
 almost never present unless you were apart of a clan. Teamwork isn't always present in BF 2, but 
 when you do have a squad that sticks together and follows orders the game is amazing. Having a 
 commander that knows what he or she is doing helps, and the voice chat works great. Being a "lone 
 wolf" in this game does little good unless your a sniper, because when you run into a squad of 
 5 guys your going to get your ass handed to you. Playing the role of commander is also alot of 
 fun if your guys follow orders and act as squads. You watch over the battle on a special commander 
 screen that has a map of the entire battlefield. You can do radar scans to check for enemys, request 
 a UAV over flight to show your troops where enemys are, tell your troops where to go and what to 
 do, drop supplies and artillary. Also new to BF 2 is the ability to gain ranks. You acquire points 
 for each game you play, at a certian amount of points you will gain rank and can unlock more powerful 
 weapons. When applying for the position of commander players with higher rank will get the position. 
 The only major complaint I have with the game is sometimes the load times are a little long. And 
 you can now punish people for team killing. Sometimes when you or your commander drops artillary 
 you can take out your own troops. Somepeople don't run out of the area and then get pissed and 
 punish you which takes points away from you. Most understand stuff happens and some servers will 
 kick/ban you for punishing a player for team killing when it is from artillary or steping on a 
 mine you layed.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great, even if you don't have a high end machine they don't look all 
 that bad. But if you do have a high end machine the game looks very good.
  
  Sound: The sound is good, explosions sound great, support weapons sound powerful, and when you 
 hear that artillary comming in run like hell!
  
  Value: This game has great value, seeing as how I already have more time into this game then the 
 past two BF games combined shows that. And the fact that some players have over 100-150 hours of 
 playing. It will take me forever to get over 100 hours of playing time.
  
  Tilt: This game is fanastic, if you like BF games or enjoyed the Desert Combat mod for BF 1942 
 you will like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcahill92129
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 24, 2005 2:16 pm PT
Review:  i'd never played the BF series, i tried BF V and BF42, but my comp couldnt handle it. but now, 
 my comp can. overall, this is a pretty good game. the multiplayer is awsome, but its better if 
 you play with friends. the squad based scheme is great, unless you have a moron squad leader or 
 moron squad members. graphics are good, so is the sound. another downside is that you can get so 
 into the game, that you play yourself into monotony. its a lot like CS, just join a game n do it 
 over n over, and it can get a little boring after a while. but all in all, its a great game, and 
 definitly worht checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sCaReCr0W
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 24, 2005 5:12 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 Review- 
  
  The pounding of a nearby base being struck by a deadly artillery shower floods your ears; gun fire 
 is growing louder, and your squad leader orders you to take out an enemy sniper camped atop the 
 adjacent building. You turn the corner only to be met with a lethal volley of bulletsyoure down 
 for now, but not out. The rest of your squad comes to the rescue, rounding the corner and taking 
 out the three enemy soldiers watching your motionless body. The medic patches you up and once again 
 you join in the onslaught. Using your assault rifle and grenade launcher to their highest potential, 
 and accompanying your squad throughout the narrow streets of Karkand City you drive back the enemy, 
 and win the day. If this sounds like anything youd enjoy experiencing in a video-game, youve 
 come to the right placeyouve found Battlefield 2. 
  
  The thrills, spills and unforgettably whacked-out moments you can only find on the Internet are 
 all wrapped up into one violent package with each entry into the Battlefield seriesthis sequel 
 refines the visceral blitz of action, frustration and glee to a fine point. The new focus this 
 time being Teamwork, and when Battlefield 2 works as it was meant to, theres simply no other game 
 on the market that gives you the same experience, nor the same satisfaction. And yet unfortunately 
 the game is down-trodden by some technical issues that can single-handedly derail the ride. Battlefield 
 2 has a nasty habit of disconnecting during matches (depending on your connection) , or freezing 
 up at the most inopportune times. No doubt theres a massive amount of action going on around the 
 huge landscapesoften with jets and helicopters flying overhead, tanks and apcs roaming the ground, 
 and troops sprinting from the frequently bombarded bases, the game has plenty to keep up with. 
 But what good is it if youre never quite sure how long its going to last? 
  
  Nevertheless, as stated before, after looking past some of the negative variables such as long-load 
 times, irritating disconnects, and of course the super-computer youll need to run the game on 
 high-settings; you have a brilliant game otherwise. Newly introduced into the Battlefield series 
 comes the much welcome addition of Squads. Either create your own, or join an already existing 
 one of up to 6 people and youll find yourself much more connected and powerful on the battlefield. 
 Strength in numbers is the key here. To even imagine going back to the days of 1942 or Vietnam, 
 roaming the vast maps usually alone and with no direction, is hard to picture. The squad-mechanic 
 changes the way you play Battlefield, changes the way in which you see multiplayer games in general. 
 The Counter-Strike loan-wolf mentality inside all of us is almost eradicated. Almost. Theres still, 
 as always, the chance of uncooperative players, yet another variable, this time in common with 
 online-gaming as a whole. Sometimes, you just have to do things yourself. No doubt though, Battlefield 
 2 has brought new hope in achieving more fluid teamwork with this feature, new hope that will hopefully 
 spread to other games as well. 
  
  If you remember, 1942 left much to be desired in the infantry combat portion of the gameand yet 
 for the massive scale of the battles at the time of release, and the brilliant balance and use 
 of vehicles the game was irresistible. Vietnam corrected the infantry combat (after a few patches) 
 and created something very worth-while in that way of thingssadly the vehicles, such as the helicopters, 
 dominated battles like never before. Battlefield 2, oddly the third iteration into the series, 
 finally gets things right. The ground-combat feels great, plays well, and is intense when coupled 
 with the graphics and sound. The vehicles can be taken out easier, and the jets and helis mostly 
 fight their own battle. In fact, the entire game seems to have a near perfect balance. But in the 
 spirit of competition there are two elements a team needs to utilize in order to achieve victory -- squads 
 being the first, and an at least decent Commander in charge. 
  
  Commander mode brings an almost Real-Time-Strategy feel to the series, with an above-head view 
 on the battlefield. At your disposal as Commander you have a number or useful abilities you can 
 flaunt to help your team or cripple the enemy. The artillery strikes can be devastating if used 
 properly and carefully, but can also demolish your own men if youre not wary of their positions. 
 Coupled with the ability to periodically scan the map and reveal each enemy location for a short 
 time, you should have a fair idea of where to strike. At first this power may seem too potent, 
 but in having to wait for both the scan and artillery to recharge after use, possibly having to 
 repair your equipment from attack, and the fact that smart teams dont move in large packs, its 
 not exactly a godly power. Using your UAV you can reveal to your entire team the locations of enemies 
 within a certain area; allowing squads specifically to plan ambushes. Lastly, you can drop supplies 
 wherever needed; if some of your troops are having difficulty in capturing a base, dropping supplies 
 for repair of their vehicles or patching of wounds may be exactly what they need. 
  
  The Commander is in direct communication to all Squad-Leaders, and when issuing an order those 
 leaders have the ability to accept or deny; if they choose to accept all squad members will automatically 
 be informed and the target will be shown on the mini-map. This structure is setup flawlessly, but 
 that doesnt mean the people in charge are perfect. Luckily, when applying for Commander the highest 
 ranked player will be given the position, which is some cases, makes all the difference. As Squad 
 leader you also have responsibility of some useful abilities, first and foremost being that all 
 your squad members can spawn in at your location as long as youre alive. If a couple of your squad 
 members are currently waiting to spawn in, and you call for reinforcements while trying to capture 
 an enemy base it may be just the boost you need. This is the primary function of being squad leader, 
 getting into position where your members can help you cripple the enemy most. One man sneaking 
 into the opposing teams air-base should go unnoticed even by the Commander most of the timethats 
 when your entire squad joins you and you attack from within. 
  
  In addition to that vital strategic mechanic, as Squad leader you will also have the chance to 
 ask the Commander directly for support. Such as asking for a UAV to see the enemy locations; and 
 you can also pinpoint spots you want your squad paying attention to. These abilities alone dont 
 make a good squadyou must use the different kits to their fullest potential, and to do that you 
 must use a variety. Having an Engineer, Medic, and Assault in conjunction with each other is going 
 to do a lot more good than having three Assault soldiers. The Assault attacks with its more accurate 
 and powerful weapons, the Medic revives or heals him when needed, and the Engineer plants mines 
 in key positions and repairs vehicles. Youre likely to survive as a team much longer this way. 
 
  
  The point system is drastically changed in Battlefield 2, and its all for the better. Points are 
 no longer only awarded for killing enemy troops and capturing enemy bases, but also in assisting 
 teammates in those activities, helping teammates by healing them, reviving them, re-supplying them 
 with ammo, and repairing their vehicles. In other words, if you hurt an opponent, that opponent 
 hops around the corner and gets shot by one of your team mates, youll still obtain one point. 
 Being a medic or Support class allows you an unlimited supply of med kits and ammo packs, respectively, 
 that you can dropand when picked up by a friendly youll be awarded one point. Naturally youll 
 see people spamming med kits and ammo packs all over the map, and for good reason. Luckily, it 
 doesnt really hurt the game. All this does is encourages people to be multiple classes each mapyoull 
 want to be a medic so you can heal people and heal yourself, but youll also want to be an Assault 
 so you can use the Grenade Launcher, the Spec Ops kit for the C4 packs you can use to destroy just 
 about anything, the sniper for his claymore mines, and the list goes on. Unlike the previous Battlefield 
 games in BF2 youll want to be almost every class. 
  
  But what is a Battlefield game without vehicles? Well, you have nothing to worry about. Yes, there 
 are attack helicopters, transport copters, multiple jets, tanks, apcs, buggies, trucks, anti-air, 
 and jeeps. And each is good for its designated task, and fun to use. Once again the balance seems 
 spot-on. The anti-air is excellent for -- you guessed it -- taking down air units. But when you match 
 it up against a tank the results are going to be different. At the same time the tank is no match 
 against a helicopter (with a good pilot) . And a copter is taken out with ease by an F-15 fighter 
 plane. It sounds good in theory, and when it does work, all is well. Unfortunately youre going 
 to have some extremely frustrating moments when trying to use lock-on missiles; missiles that seem 
 to like missing their target and hitting teammates instead. Which now brings me to the new team-killing-punishment 
 system that has been implemented into the gamea system that was included with good intentions, 
 but is easily abused. 
  
  Team damage is now a punishable action, and will lose you points. Who isnt hateful towards to 
 people in online games that shoot their teammates but dont kill them, only making it easier for 
 the other team to succeed, and not ever getting punished for it? Well thats gone, but theres 
 a new form of annoyance nowpeople purposely getting themselves team-killed making perfectly innocent 
 players lose points and sometimes even get kicked off the server. Most of the vehicles hit-boxes 
 are extremely sensitive. Most of the time even if a teammate runs into the side of your vehicle 
 they are instantly killed. Making matters even better on the majority of servers you can then choose 
 to punish the team-killer making them lose even more. Sometimes you can take a quick 8 point loss 
 because of some idiotsidiocy. Nonetheless when crap like this isnt happening, and you are truthfully 
 getting team-killed on purpose you can punish and then start a kick-vote towards that player. Whether 
 that vote works or not is up to a large majority of the server playersor an admin. You have to 
 pray for admins. 
  
  The visuals in Battlefield 2 can be somewhat mixed. On the whole you can tell the game is superbly 
 crafted and scrupulously detailed in its environments. At the same time youre going to need a 
 massively high-end computer to run this baby at full settings and still hope for a playable framerate. 
 Played on medium setting the game still looks great when running smoothly. The gun models are all 
 extremely well done and detailed, the characters models animate better than the previous Battlefield 
 games and are far more detailed and realistic looking, and the vehicles leave little left to be 
 desired. You can simply tell that this time around the presentation is extraordinarily more important 
 to the developers. The particle-effects are infinitely improved over previous installments; with 
 dust kicking up as you skid around corners in your jeep and dodge incoming artillery shells. The 
 explosions are also much enhanced as instead of the said vehicle simply turning black and becoming 
 motionless it will shatter into multiple pieces that are sent every which way. Theyve also created 
 some truly beautiful environments, large and small, capturing the atmosphere of each local they 
 re-create. From the streets of urban-based maps such as Strike at Karkand, and Mashtuur City; to 
 the rolling hills of China inspired Dragon Valley, Battlefield 2 gives the series a completely 
 next-generation update. But of course thats only when you have the computer to run it. 
  
  As if the game wasnt intense enough already the sound does a magnificent job at creating a powerful 
 warfare setting as well. Turn the sound up because youre going to want to hear the enemy helicopters 
 closing in, the opposing teams jets bombing nearby bases, and the artillery strikes of magnificent 
 glory leaving you shell-shocked. The many voice-commands that can issue (which is far easier and 
 more streamlined than it was previously) ranges from requesting a pick-up, to calling for a medic; 
 and each army, the Chinese, MEC, and US all have their own voice acting done in their language. 
 Luckily there are far less whiney sounding commands than there were in Vietnam and 1942 so even 
 though youll be hearing these same commands countless times over and over it doesnt bother. Now 
 instead of searching through the F-Keys on your keyboard to see which button means youve just 
 spotted an enemy boat, you can now just hold down Q while pointing at the enemy and it will automatically 
 register and tell what type of enemy youve just spotted. This is extremely useful because as you 
 spot someone this will make any near-by teammates aware of that enemies position for a short time 
 on the mini-map in the top right corner of the screen. You spot a jet, Weve got company overhead! 
 Youre teammate in the anti-air sees it on his map and acts accordingly. Theres really not much 
 to complain about with the sound for BF2, the guns, speech, available built-in VOIP (Voice-Over 
 IP) all do a fine job. 
  
  The statistical tracking of Battlefield 2 may just be the most comprehensive for any online shooter 
 available. As long as youre playing on any ranked server youll have each and every moment recorded 
 in the form of stats. Your combat score consists of how many kills, and kill assists you have. 
 Your teamwork score consists of the number of captures, capture assists, revives, heals, and repairs 
 you tallied up. But theres much more than thatthe time spent in each army, time spent using each 
 weapon, and vehicle is also registered and tracked. The amount of kills youve gained using the 
 M4 rifle or how many youve gained by landing on someone with your helicopterits all tracked. 
 It all depends on your preference of stat-tracking; Halo 2, for example, is yet another stat-tracking 
 mammoth, but in another way all together. Youre not going to find how long youve ridden around 
 in your Warthog, but you will see detailed representations and accounts retelling each kill, flag-capture, 
 bomb plant, and death of each and every match youve ever played. These are two different ways 
 of looking at any given match you play, and in their own ways both extremely entertaining to look 
 over, whether for serious improvement purposes, or simply to see if you have more kills than 
 your friend. 
  
  In addition to the core numbers youll most likely want to frequently scan through, there are medals 
 that are awarded for performing certain tasks in any given match, some depending solely on your 
 performance, others on your total time played. First and foremost you have your standard Gold, 
 Silver, and Bronze medalsbut now you can see just how many times youve placed first, second, 
 and third as it keeps track. But there are also a substantial number of other medals, badges, and 
 ribbons you can gain over time and excellent skillful play. This simply adds even more incentive 
 to continue playing the game for just one more matchthen Ill go to bed! giving the game a set 
 of goals that players are naturally going to want to achieve. Why? Anything not mentioned yet? 
 Ohtheres also the fact that each time you rank up you have the chance to unlock a new weapon. 
 After 1000 points youll gain your first choice, the next after 10,000 points, 25,000, 50,000, 
 etc. They dont take ranking up lightly. Its going to take well over 100 hours to get that second 
 weapon, and yet, if this game performs the way its meant to youre going to find that time slip 
 away faster than you may have believed possible. 
  
  Battlefield 2 can be an extraordinary experience in almost every aspect of what makes a game worthwhile, 
 hundreds of hours of your life will glide away into this game, and youre going to vastly enjoy 
 the majority of that time. If that sounds like a bit much for you, step back and take a deep breath. 
 The game is addictive, intense, and funbut not in the same way any given MMO isthis game can 
 be played in short bursts as well. Battlefield 2 isnt the perfect game, it isnt the perfect online 
 shooter; BF2 is an excellent game held back only by some of the variables that so often come with 
 a game of such ambition, and online play. The graphics, sound, and amazing balance all show just 
 how much time went into this game during developmentdoes it have faults that need repair? Unquestionably. 
 But putting this game is perspective you have to recognize it for what it truly isone of the best 
 online shooters youll find. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redo3302
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2005 12:44 pm PT
Review:  It's a great game. You'll get hooked right away. It's a different game every time you play. If 
 you've played first person shooters alot then you'll catch on real fast. The bad part is that your 
 system has to really rock for the game play to be good. Otherwise you'll be cursing your monitor 
 for the lag.... definately worth buying though. Just go buy alot of added memory. I just wish they'd 
 hurry with the new patch though, i've been watching for it for a month now. The new patch will 
 hopefully change alot of the game, and it'll be a lot better. Dude, why do you have to have 100 
 words for this stupid review... man come on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narutofan97
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 18, 2005 9:40 pm PT
Review:  battlefield was one of the most popular multiplayer shooter seiries aside counterstrike. that has 
 changed with battlefield 2! lets start with gameplay. it is the best part of the game. theirs 3 
 new kits called support, special forces, and engineer. weapons are easier to use and with alot 
 of people in one round, things get extremely intense! of course this wouldn't be true without the 
 graphics and sound. each is very high quality. though most people will be with the lower quality 
 graphics because the high quality graphics is pretty demanding. the loading times anytime are extremely 
 painfull no matter how fast your computer is and the autobalance feature sometimes makes very bad 
 decisions. the biggest addition is squads and commander. before a match, you can apply to be the 
 commander, the player with the highest rank will be selected. each team can have up to 9 squads 
 and 5 players per squad. the commander gives orders to the squadleaders who also have the choice 
 to give their own oreders to their squadmates. the commander can deploy supplies, bomb a certain 
 area anywhere on the map, scan the map for a brief overview on all the enemy soliders and call 
 in UAV which scans all the enemies in a certain radius for a longer time. the commander can use 
 these four fetures to make certain strategies. the maps are huge. but the urban ones prove to be 
 more fun. there are over 30 vehicles in the entire game to get around the map. though you can easilly 
 end up stranded in the middle of nowhere without a ride. a new sprint feture is included to help 
 this problem but doesn't entirely solve it. there are also only twelve maps. the single player 
 mode only throws you into a battlefield with only 16 players on the map and you cant change the 
 size either. though the bots are way more advanced than the first 2 games. overall battlefield 
 2 is the best multiplayer shooter yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatality4u
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 18, 2005 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a modern first person shooter with a massive multi-player online component. Although 
 the game does have a single-player component with it, the multi-player is really where the game 
 shines. This game takes place in the modern era with three sides to play: USA, MEC, and China. 
 Although each of the sides has the basic same classes, there are subtle differences within each 
 that make it wiser to choose a different class with each different side. Each side has the exact 
 same type of vehicles but like with the classes the vehicles do vary enough that it can make a 
 little bit of a difference when fighting. Small things such as missile placement and speed will 
 be noticeable between the three different sides. One of the improvements to this series is a set 
 of awards. Badges, Ribbons, and Medals are all awards you can get for doing certain things in the 
 game. They range from the easy and mundane to the ridiculous and hardcore. For the player who wants 
 to strive for the awards it can be a blessing in disguise, because some awards can be very hard 
 to get and time consuming.
  
  Like mentioned before Battlefield 2 does have a single-player component to it, but this single-player 
 is different from those who have come before it. No longer will the AI just stand in front of you 
 as you fill them full of lead. Instead on the most basic level the AI will provide somewhat of 
 a challenge and will know exactly how to take you and from where. Now we are not talking about 
 the most advanced AI in the world but for the most part it does make it harder than most other 
 shooters.
  
  The gameplay is by far the most impressive thing about the game. Online is where it really shines, 
 where you can wage war against other opponents and have up to 64 players one server. It can be 
 fun to have that many on a server but it can make the game go much faster even with the higher 
 amount of tickets. Each side has seven different classes with each having strengths and weaknesses. 
 If you are going to play online it is best to be able to test them all out so when you are waging 
 war you can decide the best one for you or your situation. For the most part the basic combat between 
 players will be fair but when it comes down to vehicles, the game can get quite brutal. If there 
 is someone on the other team that is destroying your side with a certain vehicle it can be quite 
 hard to kill them before your team has taken the brunt of the damage. In this version of the Battlefield 
 genre, vehicles rule. If you can exploit the strength of a certain vehicle and practice with it 
 you can begin to make people on the other side not even come near you or run away if they can. 
 Online you can use a headset to communicate with others but for the most part you will be the only 
 one in the game with a headset to communicate, so you can help others but they cant help you in 
 the same manner.
  
  The graphics in the game are very good but not outstanding. They do have some nice explosion effects 
 that make it seem really cool. When vehicles are destroyed they do leave behind skeletons of their 
 formers selves that can kill you if you are not careful. These are certainly not the best graphics 
 that are out there, because they seem to be about the same as Halo 2 and that game out almost nine 
 months before Battlefield 2, but some things can be very hard to improve upon. The graphics in 
 the game are certainly not mediocre also; they are just not the best of the best, but certainly 
 not something to not buy the game about. 
  
  The sound in the game is actually quite neat and helpful at times. If there are bullets buzzing 
 nearby you can definitely hear them and it is really nice that when there is a missile lock on 
 you that the game gives not only a visual signal but an audio signal. It may not seem like much 
 but having that little bit of audio to break up the rest of the sounds does make you think. The 
 basic music that plays while loading is rather nice, but does repeat itself quite frequently. Each 
 side, by default, is set to speak in their native language. It is a really nice touch but can be 
 very detrimental especially if you have to look every time at the text and not hear it. You can 
 set it up to have English, no matter what which is what a lot of people are doing. All in all the 
 sound of the game makes it one of the best out there.
  
  The value of the game can be something that is to be argued. For 40-50 dollars you can get a really 
 good game that you can play upwards of 600 hours that some people have played online, but for the 
 casual gamer this game can be very frustrating and you can give up after 20-50 hours depending 
 on your desire and patience. For the online gamer this game is a steal even for 40-50 dollars because 
 the time you can play it, but for the casual gamer it can be a hard decision to make. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluwave
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2005 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is a excellent example of the first next generation of first person shooters. The graphics 
 are very good, as long as you have a machine that supports them... But even with a mediocre system, 
 you can still enjoy the games graphics quite well. The game has implemented many new features since 
 the days of Battlefield 1942. Here is a short summary.
  
  1. Points are recorded: There is a ranking system, the higher your points the higher your rank 
 will be... Each time you rank up, you get access to a new weapon.
  
  2. Team Damage, Team Kill: Now when you shoot someone or run into them, it takes points off your 
 score. You can also be punished (takes additional points from your score) for killing teammates.
 
  
  3. Chain of Command: There are three positions you can play as. Commander; the commander has access 
 to battlefield map, where he will relay orders and command artillery attacks. Squad leaders; these 
 guys take orders from commanders and tell their squad member where and what to do. They also can 
 request things from their commander. Squad members; the grunts, they can spawn off their squad 
 leaders.
  
  4. Voice communication: Commanders can communication with squad leaders and squad leaders communicate 
 with their squad members.
  
  Those are some of the new key features in the game... The game is overall very good... Thats why 
 I am still playing it after nearly two months... But the game still has some issues. Mainly, having 
 to wait up to 10 minutes to login at times. Dieing from being nudged by a vehicle that is moving 
 at less than 5 mph. Getting team damage or teamkill points from teammates that run in front of 
 your vehicle or jumping out while it is moving.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adfaadfa2003
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 10, 2005 11:50 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I remember playing the demo and thinking that this was so well made. I once played 
 BF1942, and i loved it, but BF2 has so much more which made me actually buy it. The teams are balanced, 
 but that doesnt mean its easy, iot means both teams need to use tactics. The squads are a good 
 idea, which allow you to spawn at your squad leader, and tactics come so much more in to the game 
 with them. 
  So, whats bad about the game? Well, very little. The game can be frustrating at times, especially 
 when you have to wait to spawn, but overall, the game is rewarding as long as your not too careless. 
 The game can be a bit slow at times, but most computers should handle it. ANd lastly, the sound 
 can sometimes be oddly annoying, but maybe thats just me. 
  Other additions include, a commander, who can do airstrikes, scans and place radars. The badges 
 and awardss also allow those who become bored to set targets for themselve.
  The game is amazing, and simply a must have... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwollenFridge
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Pro: Exciting, awesome Battlefield gameplay; numerous innovations, especially with squads; VOIP 
 is awesome; extremely intense; gorgeous graphics and great sound; balanced relatively well; persistent 
 identity; tons of variety with classes and roles; just totally insane.
  
  Cons: High system requirements; monstrous loading times; bugs; patches take forever and often introduce 
 more problems than they fix; airpower sometimes a little imbalanced; EA customer support is totally 
 useless, and that's not an understatement.
  
  There's little fundamentally wrong with the gameplay in Battlefield 2. It has intense and varied 
 shooter action. I just wish that there weren't so many problems wrong with the technology of the 
 game...
  
  Battlefield 2 is the sequel to the trailblazing, extremely popular Battlefield 1942, which essentially 
 opened up the scale of the modern first-person shooter game and introduced wild and crazy vehicles 
 and action to the mix. Battlefield 2 is actually the third game in the series, after Battlefield: 
 Vietnam, which was popular enough but had a rather lukewarm reception. It's clear that DICE, the 
 makers of Battlefield, did not want to disappoint twice, as Battlefield 2 is loaded with amazing 
 multiplayer action and is probably still the best multiplayer game available, as of now.
  
  What makes Battlefield 2 so great, you ask? Well, first off, Battlefield 2 tries to introduce some 
 semblance of order to the action. Teams can be organized into squads of up to six, and the squads 
 are ordered around by a commander who has a top-down view of the battlefield and who can airlift 
 supplies, do UAV scans, drop artillery, and in the latest patch, drop vehicles to squads and bases. 
 Each squad has a squad leader, who can talk to the commander and his squad with BF2's excellent 
 built-in VOIP, the commander can talk to squad leaders, and squads can talk to each other and their 
 squad leader. Squads can spawn on their squad leader, eliminating, for the most part, the famous 
 series problem of wandering over vast tracts of land to reach the battle, and then getting killed 
 by a random person, then having to repeat the trip again...
  
  All this order may sound like a disadvantage to Battlefield 2, but it only serves to intensify 
 and focus the action more. The signature of the Battlefield series is probably it's incredible 
 series of awesome, totally unpredictable and unscripted moments. This holds true for Battlefield 
 2. Squads of six will desperately battle against each other on foot as the fight their way up to 
 a control point. A squad medic will revive his teammates in an effort to keep the battle going. 
 Special forces will be covered by their teammates as they plant C4 on the enemy's artillery. And 
 so it goes on, and on, and on, until Battlefield 2 just becomes a blur of insane fun, and then 
 you look up, and it's hours from when you started.
  
  There's no fundamental problem with BF2's system of squads and commanders: the only real problem 
 is getting people to join it. While almost all servers will have some kind of squad system set 
 up, and there will always be a commander, it's tough to find a squad that coordinates, and it's 
 even tougher to find squads that use their mics, an experience that absolutely elevates BF2 above 
 any other game of the year, in my opinion. Nevertheless, even without mics, BF2 is still way better 
 than its predecessors, as squads will often stick together even if they're not really coordinating 
 particularly well, as this offers the best chances of staying alive and racking up points.
  
  In BF2, you can play as seven different classes, which are pretty much identical on either 
 side: anti-tank, assault, sniper, medic, engineer, support, and special forces. The classes are 
 balanced better than pretty much any other game, unlike any other multiplayer shooter game. The 
 assault is the most multipurpose class, as it has a useful grenade launcher, a powerful default 
 rifle, and a smoke grenade on hand, as well as the standard knife and pistol equipments. Snipers, 
 usually the bane of balance in an online game, have finally been balanced correctly in a game, 
 their rifles are powerful but not one-hit one-kill, and so matches never just turn into sniper 
 matches, but there will always be at least a few around. The anti-tank class has an obvious purpose, 
 as they have a useful way to guide rockets into tanks (although that won't kill the tanks in one 
 hit) and can also do so into cars and jeeps for devastating effect. For once, the antitank class 
 can actually hold some of its own in infantry combat, a major probem in previous games, as they 
 get a good a submachine gun, although their guns are not quite as powerful. The special forces 
 has a good automatic gun with a nice zoomed laser sight, but most importantly, it has C4 for blowing 
 up enemy artillery and UAV, and in some daring occasions, enemy tanks.
  
  The other classes have been the real problems for most online games. Battlefield 2 fixes all this, 
 though. Medics get a nice, accurate gun as well as the ability to heal and revive teammates (and 
 heal themselves) . Engineers get a shotgun that's useless at long range but very powerful up close, 
 as well as explosive mines and the all-purpose repair wrench for damaged vehicles. The support 
 class (arguably the most underplayed) is last, which has an extremely powerful machine gun with 
 a lot of recoil when you're standing up and virtually no accuracy at long range, but that can be 
 devastating close-up, and they also have the ability to supply teammates with ammo. To cap it off, 
 when any of these three classes are in a vehicle, they automatically create a circle around the 
 vehicle that will automatically supply any vehicles or infantry with their ability, so basically, 
 a jeep with a medic in it becomes an automatic ambulance, or one with an engineer will automatically 
 repair tanks next to it, and so on... These classes are finally made much more popular because they 
 actually gain points for performing support actions. Essentially, you get a point for a support 
 action (as well as for assisting in a kill, so you'll never feel as if your kill was stolen) and 
 two points for a kill, so there's something there for everybody, and it's a fairly well-balanced 
 system.
  
  This is one of the biggest strengths of Battlefield 2: it has a totally ridiculous amount of variety. 
 Just in the classes alone, one can play as an up-close machine gunner that dishes out ammo to teammates, 
 or perhaps a healer that stays at the back lines, or maybe an aggressive gunner that leads the 
 charge into an enemy base... the variety is only compounded further by the excellent vehicles, which 
 are the trademark of the Battlefield series. Tanks roll along as they try to shake off anti-tanks 
 guided missiles and take over a base. APC's are filled (theoretically, though not always) with 
 gunners as they destroy the opposition. Jeeps motor along with a gunner on the back to assist some 
 allies at a hot spot. Jets and helicopters fly above and rain death down upon the infantry. In 
 fact, that's arguably the biggest balance problem in BF2, the airpower. There's no doubt that the 
 payoff is proportional to actually learning how to fly the stupid things - the controls for the 
 air vehicles are pretty tough, though not impossible, and many people prefer to play the game exclusively 
 in the air. However, now some of the pilots have gotten simply too good at efficiently getting 
 in, killing someone, and getting out, and the jets and helicopters can sometimes be just too powerful. 
 The real problem is there's only one real thing that people on the ground can do, and that is to 
 get in an anti-air installment if one HAPPENS to be nearby, which also places them in a vulnerable 
 position, plus they have ways of throwing off the heatseeking missiles from the anti-air installments. 
 Guns don't even inflict a little damage when full clips are unloaded, they seem more useful to 
 attract a plane's attention so it can kill you. Theoretically, the only other counter is your own 
 airpower - but your airpower should just battle theirs, right? Wrong, because yours is too busy 
 annoying the other teams. Sometimes the whole battlefield just seems like a playground for the 
 pilots, and it's unfair and needs to be fixed. That said, it's not as big a problem as it could 
 be, and the game is still insanely fun.
  
  Perhaps one of the most addictive qualities to Battlefield 2 is it's persistent identity system. 
 Essentially, you keep one profile for the game, and it tracks pretty much everything you do - your 
 kills, your kills with a certain gun, time playing as a squad leader, time playing with a kit, 
 most played vehicle, etcetera etcetera. What's really addictive is that the game awards you for 
 impressive achievements in battle, though - be first place of the entire game for a round and you 
 grab a gold star, be a very good medic for a long time and you'll get a first aid achievement, 
 go on a killing spree as a special forces and you'll get a special forces combat achievement, and 
 so on - and these can all be viewed in your profile! Additionally, the points you gain each round 
 are added up, and as you reach enough points, you'll get promotions to upper ranks. The ranks aren't 
 entirely superficial - for example, the person with the highest rank that applies for commander 
 will take precedence over someone who applies with a lower rank. But the other thing is that on 
 certain ranks, you'll be able to unlock a gun for a class that you can use in ranked matches. These 
 guns don't unbalance the game - they're not really exceptionally powerful - but it's still really 
 cool to be able to do this.
  
  So after all this gushing, why am I just not giving BF2 something like a 9.7 or 9.8? Well, it's 
 mostly because of problems with the tech. The graphics are gorgeous. Insanely pretty and detailed, 
 although the environments not interactive. Of course, this comes at the price of high system requirements, 
 but that's the price you pay. Additionally, the sound is really impressive as well, and never fails 
 to draw you in.
  
  More problems exist, though. The importance of short loading times is something that, after playing 
 BF2, nobody will understate, and BF2 fails this test - horrendously. The loading times are horrific, 
 and can go skyrocketing up to five minutes. Get familiar with that rather bland song you hear as 
 it plays, because you'll be hearing it a lot. Bring a book, or a magazine, or your iPod. Something. 
 Another fundamental problem with the game is the server browser. It's clumsy, it's slow, it's a 
 pain, and it's not particularly effective, nor does it ever really read the pings correctly. Also, 
 when you first enter the game, expect a few moments of lag to hit before it fully kicks in and 
 runs smoothly, and you can engage in online shooter bliss.
  
  All this would have been more than enough crap, but no... First off, there're the patches. I'm not 
 sure if it's JUST me or if it's everybody, but for some reason, patches seem to take ungodly amounts 
 of time. I've never seen one finished, even after I left one on - during a movie - and came back. 
 I usually patch BF2 overnight. It's ridiculous, and it's dumb. Second off, the bugs. There are 
 various, rather small bugs that don't show up all that often, but they're worth mentioning. It's 
 not as bad as BF2's detractors would tell you, though. Worst of all, the crashes. Personally speaking, 
 I've never usually had a problem with BF2 crashing UNTIL THE LATEST PATCH, and then I had to search 
 for some complicated solution online. It's ridiculous that BF2's patches seem to introduce more 
 problems than they solve, not to mention that they're painfully infrequent. EA's customer support 
 is, bar none, the worst I've ever seen. Unless you're so stupid that you couldn't figure out that 
 if you have a system that can't run the game, then it is probably not going to run, then you can't 
 look for help there. Good luck, and godspeed if your game is crashing.
  
  You might notice that of all these faults, I haven't listed one that lies in the actual game. This 
 speaks to Battlefield 2's core quality and the bliss that one achieves when they actually get to 
 play it. But the technical experience can be so frustrating, so incredibly irritating, that I can't 
 justify giving it a higher score than I have. Overall, I would say that this is still a must-play 
 for anyone who likes any shooters at all and has the PC to run it. It's amazing. I just wish, so 
 very much, that they could fix it once and for all. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 5, 2005 6:46 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in Battlefield 2 are great. The animations looks awesome, and I especially like seing 
 the character animations when someone gets killed. The environments are huge, so together with 
 some very nice graphics this meens you ought to have a state of art computer to really see those 
 nice graphics.
  
  The overall sounds in BF2 is top notch realistic. The game doesn't feature a lot of music except 
 on the menu and during the loading. The music during the loading is a recreation of the very cool 
 soundtrack from Battlefield 1942. The music is very cool, and surprisingly enough not as partiotic 
 as you might expect. The sound effects are extremely good, and comes in huge numbers during the 
 fire fights.
  
  Battlefield 1942 had a fantastic gameplay, and gamers has been enjoying it for several years now. 
 Battlefield 2 has much the same charm as the first game, but there are a couple of new features 
 here that really shines. The fact that the game is set into present time is very cool, cause we've 
 all played all of those WW2 games now and we're getting pretty tired of those dated weapons. Like 
 in BF1942 you get to choose different teams of course, though this time you get to choose from 
 USA, China and Iraq/Iran. Some all new things in BF2 are the squads and commander. You now get 
 to join squads as either a member or leader. As a member you get orders to for example attack a 
 position or defend a position. As a leader you give these orders. This squad thing works very well 
 cause the leader has voice communication with the boss (commander) who sees the whole battlefield 
 in strategy view, so he knows a lot more than the ordinary members do. The commander is in the 
 battlefield too, but he can always look in strategy view to spot enemy vehicles or troops. The 
 commander can drop artillary strikes, supply boxes and so on. These new features makes the whole 
 game more based on team work, which is great, cause that's what it's all about. The whole game 
 is so much fun I was in near shock the first time playing it. When you take control over a helicopter 
 or air-plane for the first time, it's really hard to control them, but after playing for a couple 
 of hours you seem to be getting the hang of it. I've been airborn for several hours and I don't 
 even care if I don't hit a single enemy, cause I'm having a jolly good time. One other thing that's 
 very cool is the new profile. Your profile records a lot of stats, but most important of all makes 
 you able to earn awards. The award system is actually one of the best new features in the game, 
 cause now you really wan't to play alot just to earn new medals, badges and ribbons. You also get 
 new ranks after playing some time. You start out as a Private, and later on you get promoted to 
 Private First Class and so on. The ones with higher ranks has an advantage when applying as commander 
 and so on. And because dice loves us so much, they've even included unlockable weapons. When you've 
 earned enough points you get to choose between several new weapons (one for each different kit) 
 and unlock one. The new weapons are more accurate and has more fire power than the ordinary ones, 
 so it's really worth unlocking them. Battlefield 2 is amazing, and I'm not even a fan of online 
 gaming, but I've been playing this game all the time. This game is so much fun, you should really 
 buy it!
  
  +
  The graphics are great. The environments are so huge and well designed you never get tired of them 
 even though there are only 10 maps. The different kits are very well balanced and you'll certainly 
 find yourself a favorite. The new squads are awesome, and being commander is ace. The sounds are 
 very realistic, and the music is cool. The game is super duper entertaining!
  
  -
  I don't know!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptHawkeye
Rating: 6.1
Date: Sep 3, 2005 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is one of the most anticipated PC games ever. And you'd think that because of this 
 EA and DICE would try their hardest to make it a mindblowing game like the Battlefield 1942. While 
 EA and DICe did try to make a good game, they failed in a few aspects. 
  
  Graphics- The game is a graphical powerhouse. For loading maps that size, with vehicles and players 
 the game manages to retian a beautiful game world. Many details are apparent. My only complaint 
 is that I don't have a machine that could run this game to its full potential. But even on mid 
 settings, this game's grpahics are excellent. 
  
  Sound- Weapon effects, voices, and vehicles all sound great. Although the new soundtrack is very 
 dissapointing. Rather than the great "War Theme" that played at the beggining, the menu, and during 
 the loading screens, BF2's soundtrack is utterly awful. But this does not detract from the overall 
 game much.
  
  Gameplay- Normally BF's strongpoint, has sadly failed. While the game itself plays very nicely, 
 and the weapons and vehicles are balanced, its the player community and the god awful TK system 
 that help ruin the game. The player community wouldn't be so bad if server admins are on all the 
 time, but this is rare. 
  
  -Many players are babies. They wine and complain and moan that you got a vehicle, then they try 
 to hve you TK them so they can get you banned from the server. And despite the TK system, TKers 
 are everywhere and still cause mayhem. Many clan owned servers are used by those clans for nothing 
 more than point farming. 
  
  TK system- I can see what EA hoped to obtain with this system. But it fell flat on its face. What's 
 worse, the system was working fine is both previous games. Yet they insisted on changing it anyway. 
 "If it aint broken don't fix it". But EA did, and instead just demolished it. The TK system counts 
 any action against a friendly as a negative. If you blow up a chopper and the hulk lands on a team 
 mate you lose points. At which point the TKed teammate is given te option to punish you or not. 
 Since most BF players have the mental age of 5, most will hit punish without ever thinking about 
 it. Costing you more points and after 3-5 punish, you get kicked from the server. 
  
  Stability- Again the game itself is reliable but once again the lack of testing every area has 
 cost EA and DICE. The server menu is prone to random slowdown, showing hundreds of 1000 ping servers 
 and not giving accurate information on many servers. EA has issued two patches to attempt to correct 
 this problem, and both did nopthing to remedy the situation. One patch even being recalled as it 
 made more problems. 
  
  Overall, BF2 is in awful condition for now. It should have spent mch more time in development, 
 but i'm certain EA and DICE didn't play test the game before they sent it out. An extremely foolish 
 move on their part. The game could have been great. Because a few critical spots have been missed, 
 it fails. 
  
  Value- At this point the game isn't worth a cent from your pocket. So spend that money on a game 
 like Joint Ops if you want something now. Although I am confident the game will be fixed as time 
 goes on. For now, don't waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benthepoet
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 1, 2005 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is the latest in DICE's popular multiplayer game franchise. Although, this time around 
 it focuses on the aspects of modern combat. The graphics in this game are one of its major highlights, 
 however, you'll need to have a pretty powerful system to see it in all its glory. But nevertheless, 
 don't be scared away by the system requirements because I run this game on a system that is below 
 the specifications. Aside from that it's a visual treat. The environments, characters, vehicles, 
 and weapons are all very detailed and help to make you feel like you're in a real conflict. The 
 sound and music in Battlefield 2 is also very well done. It gets so intense when you've got artillery 
 firing, grenades exploding, and bullets whizzing past your head. And on top of that the loading 
 music is awesome as well. Gameplay wise, this game is designed to be played online with your friends. 
 You can select a person to command your team and then you can setup squads and give orders and 
 call for supplies or artillery strikes. Teamwork is a must in this game and with seven different 
 character classes to choose from everybody will find what they're best suited for. However, the 
 most rewarding part of Battlefield 2 is it's superb online stats system. When you play on ranked 
 servers you earn points for teamwork, kills, and commanding. The great thing is that you can earn 
 medals and ribbons as well as go up in rank, which allows you seniority over others when applying 
 for the position of commander. Even better than that is that you get to unlock new weapons as you 
 go up in rank too. Once you start playing this game you'll never want to leave the battlefield. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjmagno1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 28, 2005 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield titles have always been part of PC gaming. Luckily the people at DICE aim to please 
 as they release this instant classic. The first thing that struck me was the amount of polish shown. 
 Each player class is balanced ever so finely and makes this a fun game. Though I felt that some 
 of the tanks made game play abit overbalanced I was quickly reminded that it can be a very large 
 target to any anti-tank player. The game plays smoothly even at high settings. Overall this game 
 was a pleasure to play and will be played for years to come like it's predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEATH775
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2005 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be the greatest war game ever made. They are very detailed about the environment 
 and even the character. The part about the character is that when a soldier use his rifle or sniper 
 to aim at someone you can notice that, his left or right eye will be closed. It really look like 
 its real. Well for me it did. The graphic is the best thing that happened to this game. It is just 
 amazing at what everything turns out to be. The sounds are just good as the graphic. Oh yeah the 
 game play is absolutely intense it is really challenging. The only thing that bugs me is that they 
 didn't make it for the X-BOX. I'm sorry but my friend does n't have a PC and I really want him 
 to play this game. So I hope one day they will make one for the X-BOX. Overall I would really recommend 
 you to buy this game. So don't you ever rent it, unless you a little short on cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jagr3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 24, 2005 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a very simple multiplayer first person shooter. There is only one game mode, with 
 a few variations. The point of the game is to capture and hold as many flags, kill as many enemies 
 as you can. For that, your opponent loses points. The first one to reach 0 is the looser.
  
  Your soldier can be either special forces, sniper, assault (basic class without any special 
 tricks) , support, medic or an engineer and anti-tank. 
  Special forces carry an assault rifle with low level zoom and C4 satchel charges. 
  The sniper 
 logically a sniper rifle and also land mines.
  Assault class has more armor, an assault rifle and grenades. 
  Support class can resupply allies 
 with ammo, and has a totally useless heavy machine gun. The medic can heal and revive team mates. 
 He also has the most amusing way to kill someone. The shock paddles. If you use them on an enemy, 
 you kill him. 
  The engineer also has a useless weapon. The shotgun. You can't hit anything with it. You can repair 
 vehicles and support units like artillery, radar and command center.
  The anti tank is possibly the most used class. Its specialty is an anti-tank rocket. it takes a 
 few shots to destroy a tank with it, but it is useful.
  
  Once you get in the game, you'll probably go for the multiplayer right away. Which is a good idea, 
 since single player has the same maps and options only with bots. I tried it once for half an hour. 
 No fun at all. A suggest you choose a ranked server to connect to. These servers keep track of 
 your game score, so after a while you get promoted, you get new weapons and cool medals. These 
 things are not necessary but help with motivation. And they're cool.
  
  Inside the game you can drive any vehicle, a there are quite a few to choose from. A boat, buggy, 
 jeep, anti-air and land armored vehicles, tanks, transport and combat helicopters and fighter planes. 
 The game has three opposing sides, the Americans, the Chinese and the Arabs. All sides have slightly 
 different weapons and vehicles, but are still very well balanced.
  
  One more thing. You can use a microphone for battle communication. This is a great way for a few 
 friends to really enjoy the game. Shouting orders in the midst of battle is realllly fun.
  
  OK, after all this dull stuff about the game let's go to the core. The fun stuff. Gameplay. 
 The game creates a great atmosphere, which makes you feel like part of the team, engaged in battle 
 to the death. The gameplay is exciting, engaging and full of great action. But like any multiplayer 
 game it's quality is greatly based on the quality of the players. So take some time and find a 
 battlefield you are comfortable in. If both teams are well balanced, without any stupid bastards 
 to screw up the game, Battlefield 2 can be an amazing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2005 12:18 pm PT
Review:  The gulf of oman is the best map in demo and in released game.
  The single player portion of the game has been improved greatly..... The bots have now a better 
 AI and they do master all different types of weapons. They also fashion teamwork over going solo 
 and getting killed in an ambush, however the singleplayer isn't as enjoyable as the online multiplayer 
 portion.
  
  What makes this game stand out, is its amazing multiplayer online portion and its graphics. You 
 can jon servers with upto 64 players which is very enjoyable... and all maps have been reduced in 
 size so that gameplay isn't as slow paced as it was in previous Battlefield games. Also vehicles 
 are now abundant in maps for those poor players who get shot from their planes, so they parachute 
 down and find themselves stranded away from the action. These people can hop into one of the many 
 awesome new vehicles in BF2. The vehicles are also a strong aspect in the game; There's a massive 
 variety of lethal, fast and strong armored vehicles. The kits are balanced now rather than in BFV 
 when one side got an RPG and a pistol and the other side gets an RPG and a semi automatic. Concerning 
 the graphics, they can't be any better... vast detailed environments and highly detailed models. 
 Also the ragdoll physics make this game oh so much enjoyable; Now when you fire a tank projectile 
 towards a player, he wil be blown away in a very realistic manner. 
  
  The ranking system and being a commander are also two of the new nice additions.... The ranking 
 system is what makes this game worthwhile! After each game, depending on your kill to death ratio 
 and your rank in the server you're playing in, you get promoted in rank.... from a private to a 
 private first class and so on. Now you have an option of being a commander, which sounded like 
 a good idea at first but its actually not as cool as it seems unless you're playing with people 
 who you know and you know that they will follow your orders. The biggest problem with this game 
 is finding a good server where people are going to do the common childish things they do like team 
 killing and spawn camping so you had better find a good clan if you don't want to find yourself 
 in aserver full of people who do such childish things. Also the load times are pretty long. It 
 takes about 2 minutes to join the server and load the map.
  
  Overall, this game is very enjoyable and doesn't disappoint, but make sure that your machine meets 
 the system requirements because this game is very demanding and needs high end hardware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  This is my first review so I'm going to make this simple to read:
  
  Gameplay - It's fun, controls are good, intense battles, riding in vehicles, helicopters, boats 
 and aircrafts are enjoyable. A decent single player to practise your skills. Walking and travelling 
 in huge maps. And has awesome multiplayer. The gameplay is too enjoyable. 
  
  Graphics - They are extremely well done. It will be jaw dropping once you start the game. The soldiers 
 in the game have good detail and well done on the backgrounds
  
  Sound - This game sounds like real-life fighting and you can hear the voice commands loud and clear 
 (although I don't use voice commands a lot) . The explosions in the game are extreme.
  
  Value - You won't stop playing multiplayer it's just too fun with other people. But if you can't 
 play online then I feel sorry for you. I wish everbody did have high speed internet so people can 
 play online with battlefield 2. Although single player is decent but not much fun as online.
  
  Tilt- Everthing is superb, that's all I can say.
  
  Battlefield 2 is one of the best war 
 games and maybe pc games I ever played. It totally deserves a superb rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRingMaster13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 24, 2005 3:26 am PT
Review:  Battlefield has been a great series, taking us from WWII to the veitnam war but now we enter modern 
 combat that we see today an in the near future. This game has it all that would be needed in a 
 war FPS, theres tanks and other rolling armor and helicopters and jets. In this version there is 
 a great ranking system where you go from private to private first class and so on and so forth. Also 
 including badges such as sniper weapons proficiancy and medical just to name two of the many. There 
 are medals aswell and ribbons for accomplishing things over time. This game is mostly multiplayer 
 but does have a single player game. In the single player game the AI is a bit smarter in this game. 
 The game has a max online play of 64 players and you will never have a hard time trying to find 
 a room to get in. Now incorporating microphone usage in squads which can be very useful when needed. 
 There are three armies to play as including the United States Marine Corp, Middle Eastern Coalition, 
 and the Peoples army (basically the Chinese) . This game is very addictive and can provide lots 
 of fun. This would be recommended as a must buy in my books 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokkuman09
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 23, 2005 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  The graphics are absolutly amazing when set to high quality and even on low they look great! But 
 there are a few rough spots such as the odd way vehicles explode after they blow up already..
 
  
  Gameplay: 
  Nothing not to like about the gameplay in this game especially the multiplayer which is the focus 
 of the game so don't buy it you have slow internet. 
  there are also some great new features in this game such as the system where you can improve your 
 rank and unlock new weapons for your character to use in battle.
  
  Sound:
  Makes you feel your actually in the battle! 
  
  Value: 
  this game wont get boring because 
 theres always somthing new to see and a new medal to get.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kshysioo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 23, 2005 9:07 am PT
Review:  Not only is this the best multiplayer shooter ever created. I've played Counter Strike and Counter 
 Strike: Source, both Half Life and Half Life 2, Enemy Territory, Far Cry, Doom 3 and many, many 
 more and I must say that BATTLEFIELD 2 IS BETTER THAN A_N_Y OF THEM! The gameplay is simply amazing. 
 If you start playing it, you won't be able to stop, you'll simply forget about everything else. 
 
  
  The graphics is FANTASTIC and it doesn't require really good computer to run smoothly (I'm playing 
 on P4 3.2 gHz, G-Force 6600, 1028 RAM-DDR, best settings, it's all right even when there are 64 
 [!!!] players on the map) . That's another advantage - you can play with up to 64 players! I also 
 really liked the idea of the rank and badges - you can get promoted, receive a badge or unlock 
 a new weapon for each of the game's classes. There are: Special Force Soldier, Anti-Tank, Medic, 
 Engineer, Sniper, Support and Assault. You can also play as a commander and give orders to your 
 men. 
  
  I must say that this game's sound and voice effects are ONE OF THE BEST I'VE EVER HEARD IN A COMPUTER 
 GAME! Music (soundtrack in main menu, while loading a map - fantastic) , shots, bursts, launching 
 rockets or destroying big part of the ground with an artillery sound simply A_M_A_Z_I_N_G.
  
  As far as played it I've found only one big disadvantage of this masterpiece - there is no 
 shield after a respawn. Sometimes when you spawn after fifteen sec. and you got killed in a second 
 by some lame campers, dropped granade or, most frustraing, your own artillery, you can simply go 
 mad.
  
  The final score: 9.4. Guys, stop playing those World of Warcraft and Guild Wars, get yourself a 
 copy of Battlefield 2 and START ENJOYING THE REAL FUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinreallybad
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2005 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Im not going to start describing what this game is all about, I'm just going to give my views on 
 the games strengths and weaknesses. 
  Before Battlefield 2 came out I thought this is going to be a totally superb game, the graphics 
 looked stunning, the squad based gameplay, commander mode, VOIP and leaderboards/stats also sounded 
 brilliant. From what EA was saying and showing I thought this was going to be the best game ever. 
 But I am a bit disppointed now that I have played the game considerably. 
  First of all, the graphics they showed in all those screenshots looked unbeleivable-and so it is, 
 they must have asked NASA to borrow one of their comps for the day so they could make the game 
 look that good. The fact is the graphics as almost evrybody will experience them are not much better 
 than battlefield 1942 and thats not great. 
  The squad based system is good but its far from perfect, although its a good idea very few players 
 actually use it fully. Only about have the players (in a 64 player server) will ever be in a squad 
 at any one time and those that are in squads very often dont attempt to play as a squad. i think 
 most people join the squads just to have another availabale spawnpoint on the map. (squadmembers 
 being able to spawn beside the leaders) But the squads are sometimes used fully and when that happens 
 the game can be really great.
  
  Commander mode is a very good idea, it is the single biggest improvement that there is in battlefield 
 2 compared to the previous games. It is good because it gives the game a far greater team focus 
 than before, you now feel that you must try and win the battle, its us against them. 
  The new identification system is aso a big improvement, it allows much more of a team kind of atmosphere 
 than before because its so much easier to inform your teamates about enemy threats. Being able 
 to thank teamates and say sorry very quickly is also a nice touch. 
  I hear a lot talk about VOIP but I dont hear a lot of talk through VOIP when I'm playing BF2, its 
 quite ironic really. I dont know why everybody seems to think VOIP is so great because the simple 
 fact is very few use it, at least in the public servers. Maybe Voip would be useful for clan matches 
 or whatever but on the public servers its use is practically zero, even when I do hear the ocassional 
 chatter its just far to garbled to make out. 
  The stats and leaderboards and the idea of a consistant character is a very nice addition to BF2. 
 It allows you to see how good or bad you are with weapons and kits and how far up the leaderboard 
 you are. There are also badges medals and ribbons you can win which is a really good idea. Altough 
 a word of caution on this, it does encourage "stat whoring" where a player will set out to get 
 as many kills or revives or whatever in order to get medals or to move up in rank. I saw once where 
 a player had something like 140 points overall (the highest Ive ever seen) but had got not one kill. 
 The medals and badges do seem to be rather difficult to come by though, although the first "basic" 
 badges are easy enough to get after that it seems pretty hard. I once got 40 kills in a tank and 
 got a "basic" armoured combat badge, I was really pleased with myself until i read in the "battle 
 commendation" that my conduct had been "satisfactory".
  The maps in BF2 are a big improvement over BF Vietnam and 1942 although there are some stinkers 
 in there like "operation clean sweep" which dont give enough cover for infantry and allow the vehicles 
 absolute supperiority, which can make gameplay pretty frustrating or even downright awful. There 
 is still the problem of having to cross wide open spaces just to get near the combat, it may take 
 you 2-3 mins just to get near a combat zone when you get struck down by a tank or APC, in some 
 maps this can happen constantly because they are just too open and there is too little transport 
 around. (I often thought some sort of chopper controlled by AI which will ferry troops to the location 
 that the commander selects would be a good idea.)
  
  Overall BF2 is very enjoyable (most of the time) at least as enjoyable as the previous BF games 
 but mostly much more so. Im sure dice will find solutions for many of the problems mentioned with 
 upcoming patches so when they do it should be a lot more fun and hopefully as longlasting as BF1942. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhlkiller
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 22, 2005 3:15 pm PT
Review:  The people who made this game must have spent all there time on the online part because the online 
 is simply amazing. You can play up to 64 players which make for some intense battles. The action 
 is very fast paced if you stand around like a idiot in this game you'll get shot around 5 times 
 before you hit the ground. You always must be moving and keeping a lookout behind and infront of 
 you because your never sure when enemies can strike you. The vechiles are great there fun to drive 
 around in and get easy points. Some of the great times are found in 64 player games where you see 
 bullets going right by you and helicopter battles in the air while your running from artilery. 
 The online is what every person will be spending there time in. The single player is ok the A. I 
 is a great opponent but the single player is not really worth it since you don't earn anything. 
 On online you earn points and when you get a certain amount of points you can unlock new weapons 
 and get higher ranks. This game is simply worth the price and worth the wait. If you like FPS this 
 is one for any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolksWagen
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2005 3:49 am PT
Review:  Who would have thought, decades ago, that one day, people, even young ones, would interact with 
 man-made conflicts, would be part of pseudo-realistic, exaggerated simulation of the worst thing 
 humanity managed to create by a natural rule of the strongest. By a natural selection.
  
  War, is part of our existence. Part of ourselves. And, now days, is even part of a virtual world. 
 Another member of a combination of video and audio entertainment.
  
  "War games are fun !"
  
  I wouldn't have said that out loud in a WWI trench, or a WW2 city 
 siege. My team mates would have probably considered me crazy, strange, out of my mind ... or even 
 part of the Third Reich.
  
  I just can't help myself but think about all this.
  
  Why ? Why do I find war video games actually fun ?
  
  I guess the answer is simple. It's because 
 of good video games developers ! Because they figured out how to make it so at least a few players 
 will feel involved with what's going on-screen. Of course. And not really because I'm a mindless 
 soul craving for war-torn environments helping me to fulfill my desires for world domination.
 
  
  I think Kane or Yuri would have practiced a bit with this Electronic Arts third installment in 
 their Battlefield franchise.
  
  Yes. I like Battlefield 2.
  
  The visuals are not disappointing. The audio quality and variety is well made and thought out. 
 The game's engine, providing good simulation of basic physics, is certainly following solid coding 
 already applied in previous, and still recent 3-D games.
  
  It's a nice mixture of video game development skills, and actual appreciation of the genre / type 
 of game play by the creators. Giving this result. 
  
  As I am typing this, the version of the game is the vanilla, default (1.0+) one. And quite frankly, 
 I expected less stability then it is already offering. I prepared myself for system crashes, windows 
 errors, graphics drivers issues and audio problems. And honestly, so far, I have yet to experience 
 such things.
  
  The game could use a minimum number of patches though. Most of the games, if not all, actually, 
 always needed patches just a few days after their release anyway. That's not new. But I believe 
 Battlefield 2 could use such technical improvements right away. Still, I think it's not that urgent. 
 And is well enough playable as it is for the moment.
  
  The size of the maps adjust themselves according to the number of players on the field. A small, 
 medium and large size, usually (or should I say, by default, without any sort of modifications 
 involved) for up to 16, 32 and 64 players, respectively. That's a neat feature in itself. I think 
 even Battlefield 1942 could benefit from that.
  
  Communication. What's more important in war ? Certainly not many other elements. And Battlefield 
 2, thanks to whoever or God, is finally using the definitive form of it. Via microphones. And even 
 its built-in communication commands received an interface re-do for the best. Plus, the new default 
 soldier voices are clear, in a good enough amount of variety, and aren't static and emotion-less, 
 which is also good news.
  
  Something specific I like about this game, is its atmosphere. Much, much more involving than any 
 other war games on the market. And this in itself is especially caused by its un-scripted, un-predictable 
 nature (when playing On-Line, of course, which is the main goal here) .
  
  Such detailed vehicle, weapon and character models do help the players feel the game. The particles 
 / debris system is well done, with nothing jaw-dropping actually, but certainly above average, 
 and much less exaggerated than Battlefield 1942's (which decrease the element of an arcade-ish 
 feel) . The sounds, are deep and with good, even great quality, and this means everything that emits 
 sound, not just weapons. The draw-distance, much better and actually more "in the distance" than 
 previous installments, again. Especially noticeable in large maps filled with 50 players and more. 
 The water, although a little similar than Battlefield 1942's (in a way I cannot technically explain) , 
 is definitely better this time, and pack a deal of simulated reality in higher resolutions and 
 high video settings.
  
  Ah ... I could talk, I could write much more than this about this game. It's really well made. 
 
  
  But there is just a few things here and there I would have appreciated if it was present, or a 
 bit more balanced. I am not a developer, and I do not know the current bugs. And, just like in 
 any vanilla versions of pretty much any games to date, there most likely is a good number to fix. 
 I'm mentioning this because I tend to notice the game, or, should I say, its engine, can be a system's 
 resources hog at times. Especially for system's memory. Having 1024 MB of DDR, perhaps in Dual-Channel 
 mode, will surely help the game run smoother.
  
  All I think the game lacks of, is a more interactive environment. Because, as of now, it is quite 
 in a static, neutral form. A few barrels here, a few electric generators there to blow up. Nothing 
 much to destroy, or damage, is my point. You know, I would have really liked to see more of "hidden" 
 passages, perhaps within buildings. An already damaged wooden door, covering a tunnel, that passes 
 under, or between buildings, as an example. Or, in other words, hidden shortcuts. Interactive stuff. 
 Not just for simple destruction goals, but actual strategic means. Also, maybe a few types of birds 
 here and there, just to add some "life" to a field where death rules. Not a necessity to make it 
 so it's possible to actually kill them. But ... just present. Flying from places to places. Just 
 a little thought. But I think these last elements are more of my humble opinions. I concur.
  
  And the A. I ! Oh ! The A. I. Yes, finally, finally they did it. They did it right. Well, mostly. 
 Because it is not without mistakes here and there I personally noticed. But, overall, it is a technical 
 fact that Battlefield 2's A. I is more complete, more accurate and faster than even (perhaps, since 
 I haven't played all of them) any EA products where A. I exists. Bots can be a welcome addition 
 especially when you cannot access On-Line play for any reasons, but still want to get your dose 
 of action. Thanks to EA / DICE for this.
  
  Overall, good job Electronic Arts, and good job DICE. You both surprised me with this one. As I 
 was disappointed by Vietnam, I was expecting something better. And my hype didn't betray me this 
 time. Battlefield 2 delivers on all the line.
  
  In terms of pure game-play fun, I can easily say that this third Battlefield game is far better 
 than both previous versions, namely Battlefield 1942, and Battlefield Vietnam, including all expansions 
 and even community modifications. Those who don't agree on this may meet me on the field in Battlefield 
 2 for a live ... discussion.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripleOnline
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2005 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I had huge expetions to this game.. when i played my expetions were true.. the game was great, 
 amzing gamplay, great graphics and sound!
  The great ting is the rank and the medal system, this is the best battlefield in the series.
 
  Everey one who likes a war game should get this! You can drive everything in this game, all from 
 Tanks to jet fighters.. In my opinion this is the best battlefield in the series.
  If you thoght Joiny operations was great you should try this.. but if you are one of those counter-strike 
 nerds you are not going to like yhis game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: truevar
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2005 11:48 am PT
Review:  A very good game for what it is... A huge improvement over the original BF 1942. I personally like 
 this game more than Unreal Tournament and Quake and all of the other arcade FPS games out there. 
 The only other game that I love more in FPS games is Ubisofts RavenShield but thats not on a massive 
 scale like Battlefield so they r a tad bit different. BF really makes you feel like you are in 
 the middle of a war especially in the 64player maps. The game is pretty stable as far as lag goes 
 but there is always room for improvement. One bad thing about the game is the system requirements 
 but hey... I like progression and this is how they make us go out and upgrade =) I am runnning 
 this on an ancient system. P4 2.53ghz socket 478 with 1gigram 4xagp and a xfx nvidia6800 OC card.
 
  With this rig I have the setting at almost the highest as they can go except for two on medium 
 and only 2x aa.. I seem to be running smooth for the most part with a few spikes here and there. 
 I should be upgrading to SLI soon. BFG7800GTX = () 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -l-Vicious-l-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2005 9:58 am PT
Review:  UPDATE: I had to give this game a higher score due to the fact that acouple of things that i mentioned 
 that were wrong with the game are not generally. But here is a updated version of my review for 
 Battlefield 2
  
  
  Welp, for one this game is not bad at all. But it seems like getting the publishers money before 
 the fisco years ends is more important then releasing a game that still has bugs and limited options 
 in it that should of been corrected during alpha and beta testing.
  
  The Bad: Lets start with the Configurations for the game, these are probably one of the worst Keyboard 
 Config Setups i have ever seen in any FPS game. Hopfully DICE will supply this game with a patch 
 that fixes up this games Keyboard Binding Setups. Becuase im tell you right now, binding your keys 
 for this game is no walk in the park, in fact, the first time you play this game it might take 
 you or some people up to an hour to set up your keys to the point where you are able to play on 
 the land and atleast 2 vehicles. The Keyboard Config is set up for everything in the game. For 
 Exp: Common Controls (For when you are on the Ground) , Vehicle Controls, Aircraft, Helicopter, 
 Boat. Now one thing about this games Config for keys is that it wont let you bind keys that are 
 being used in other options. For Exp: lets say you you have Right Shift set up as Crouch (now the 
 only time you get to use crouch to actually crouch again is when you are on a tank or truck turret) , 
 and you wanna use the Right Shift key to Accelerate your Aircraft, isnt gonna happen. For some 
 reason the game doesnt let you bind those keys that are being used already, so you either need 
 to use another key across the keyboard or not use the key at all (and not using the keys is not 
 an option when you need to pick up dead soldiers kits) . Another thing is there are things you can 
 do in the game that there is no option to bind your key for in the keyboard config. For Exp: In 
 the game you can switch your rate of fire on submachine guns and assault rifles, in the keyboard 
 config..... that option isnt listed or there. This happens when you switch your weapon with your 
 mouse scroll, then pick the same weapon with the mouse scroll again. Now i found this out by mistake, 
 and i did not read the manual for the game if it is listed there. This isnt a major issue, but 
 my point is that it is not listed at all in the keyboard config. Some people still may have not 
 found this out yet.
  
  The Second most noticeable thing is there is no Single Player Campaign. Its not much of a disapointment 
 but when you only get around 10 maps to play on in bot skirmishes offline, but it gets old real 
 fast. Now i havnt played the passed battlefields, so i dont know if that just is the game or the 
 dev team just left it out figuring that most people that will buy this game go to play online anyways. 
 But like myself i have no broadband connection and im forced to play offline due to having a crappy 
 modem. So fine, no campaign, i'll just play skirmishes with the bots and see whats doing with this 
 game. Now i noticed there are hidden weapons and items in the game that you can unlock.......... only 
 if you get your rank and scores online. Which once again is bad for me becuase its just not gonna 
 happen due to my crappy modem. Wished the devs gave people like me a break with atleast the hidden 
 weapons by unlocking them offline only for offline play. To add on to that is that the maps that 
 are available can also be unlocked to be even bigger, with more checkpoint and more geographical 
 land to voyage on. Its not cool when you cant play online.
  
  The Third most noticeable bad thing is the bots hit detection. For some reason curtian weapons 
 are not effective enough to kill your opponent. For instance the Sniper Rifles, some Sniper Rifles 
 are actually useless. Head shots will randomly grant you the kill of your opponent if you are lucky 
 enough. And some Assault Rifles and Submachines Guns either are to accurate or not accurate enough. 
 For the shotguns, its seems its most effective range is around 3 yards, which isnt realistic. The 
 effective range is usually out to around 68-73 yards for a shotgun (I should know, i used a Benelli 
 M1 90 in real life. Which isnt in the game) . I understand Balancing the game too, but lets be serious, 
 shotguns in this game are useless unless your right next to your target soldier. Handguns are actually 
 more accurate then some SMGs and Assault Rifles. So playing with the bots offline will be something 
 to get use to since it rarly corisponds with what is realistic. Now i havnt played online, so it 
 might be different for the player you use online.
  
  The Fourth most noticable bad thing with this game is unbalancement with classes. In this game 
 you can pick whatever class you want without there being a limit on them. Now i dont know if having 
 crappy weapons balances with having classes not being limited, or its just that playing online 
 makes it was more accurate for your weapons, and that the unbalancement is actually a problem. 
 But unlike some games (mods) i have played. Classes should be balanced in the game to level is 
 evenly according to what map you are playing and what situations you may encounter in order to 
 win. This can be an issue for instance that anybody can pick Sniper class, and you may end up having 
 the whole team as one class which is just rediculous. Again, i have not played online so it might 
 actually be limited, but as far as i can see it offline, even the bots swtich classes whenever 
 they want. Another thing that falls under unbalancement is that you can drive any vehicle as many 
 times as you want with any class, which once again is a horror when you have not only unbalancement 
 based on classes but unbalancement based on everybody being eligible to use any vehicle in the 
 game. The game should be that only curtian classes should be able to use the Aircrafts or the Helicopters. 
 So that leads to extra spamming of overuse of vehicles that are difficult to destroy when you are 
 on the ground.
  
  The Fifth bad thing is spawn camping. Now its understandable when you need the units to spawn right 
 next to the checkpoints in order to win....... Wrong. The way it should be done is that you need 
 to travel in order to get to the checkpoint, not spawn on them. Elimination of this will have less 
 then half of the spawn camping that happens in the game, especially when you have a Chinese helicopter 
 hovering over your spawn points in order for you to lose as U. S. Another thing is you can choose 
 were you want spawn at. So lets say you have 3 checkpoint around primary spawn point and the enemy 
 has capped all of them. O Boy, get ready for the spawn camping, a combination of having classes 
 unlimited and not having eligibilities to vehicles will crash right on you last standing checkpoint......... you 
 lose. Its rediculous, there should be curtian building where your teams comes out of and that the 
 enemy cant enter, and vehicles that the enemy cant use unless they were used already by someone 
 eligible to use on your team. And also having teams spawn at just 1 checkpoint (which should always 
 be the primary checkpoint) unless it is really nessacery to have them spawn in a diffirent area 
 of the map, which should be a forwarded spawn (which again they only spawn at 1 checkpoint) . But 
 i guess the dev team just threw everything in without strategizing.
  
  Now over these bad things, there are mutiple bugs, having the over use to regaining ammo and health 
 to not having quick ingame keys that tell my team mates that I have spotted an enemy and a crap 
 load of other issues of unbalancement and just things being plain wrong. But over the bad stuff, 
 lets see whats good with the game...
  
  The primary source to buy this game for is the Multiplayer. I have 3 other friends that have actually 
 played online with this game and say that it is the Core of what makes Online Tactical and Strategical 
 FPS games being great. Not only does this game revolve around its online play by making everything 
 matter by playing online, but beyond having a good time playing online, you need to play online 
 in order to unlock alot of the things in the games. For instance unlockable weapons, items, and 
 extended maps that lead to more vehicles and intensness that you just wont get by playing offline. 
 The games can handle all the way up to 64 players on a server which must be by far the sickest 
 point of the game that is worth the play. If you are thinking about buying this game and have a 
 computer that can handle it and a modem that doesnt suck for online play, then you should already 
 have this game running thats why you can get your Seargent First Class rank and unlock some of 
 the items and weapons that will make kicking your opponents &*% even more fun. There is no doubt 
 that once you experience what 64 playes online feels like with the mayhem of having vehicles all 
 over the Fn place while you scramble with your fire team to kill off enemies in order to cap a 
 check point feels like, that this game is worth buying. And with the announced release of the Special 
 Forces Expansion Pack, this is a must get.
  
  The Second thing to appretiate about this game is the implimintation of making it addictive, since 
 the only thing you need to do is play online in order to get what you need and rank up, there is 
 no question that this game is going to be a huge clan friendly game once it gets real serious with 
 having over 200 clans in it. If you are big with clans, then this is definitly the game for you. 
 Having these things over factors the bad facts with the game until DICE comes up with somekind 
 of patch that actually fixes the obvious.
  
  Over all this game still has what it takes to be fair online, the full potential is spoted right 
 when you set foot in a map for the first time, and its huge. But due to the problems and issues 
 with a veriaty of things in this game, it degrades the fun that you can get off of it. Alot of 
 people may not see it my way, but thats my opinion and i doubt im the only person that sees it 
 that way. This game can be easily patched up and be probably one of the best mordern tactical online 
 FPS games out to date. But until that day comes, you are better off wasting your money on something 
 more promising. Like an upcoming game thats name starts with and F and ends with a R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rudyfan04
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 18, 2005 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I believe the single factor that separates BF2 from other online FPS games are the vehicles. You 
 can control a number of different tanks, helicopters, jets, APCs, jeeps, and many more vehicles. 
 Most of the ground vehicles are two seaters or more. This is where teamwork plays a big part. Some 
 tanks allow you to only drive and not fire; youll need another team member to control the turret. 
 The APCs have windows with machine guns mounted on them. Jets and helicopters are a bit more difficult 
 to maneuver. Jets move very fast and some come with afterburners. In a jets view, the map is tiny 
 and you will always go out of bounds. Luckily, the game gives a much better chance to get back 
 to battle when you are in a jet than when you are on foot. Another welcomed innovation to the second 
 installment in the Battlefield series is the Persistent Character Scoring System; players will 
 now have reason to band together and utilize teamwork to achieve victory while playing on ranked 
 servers. At the end of each round, the statistics of each individual player on the server are uploaded 
 to the EA master servers, which keep track of every little detail. Fighting like hell on the battlefield 
 will unlock medals, badges and awards, among other things, that can be admired in the BFHQ section 
 of the main menu. (i have only gotten 3) BFHQ features all of the information one would want to 
 know about his or her skills. Playtime, favorite weapon, map, vehicle and accuracy can all be found 
 there. One of the most notable characteristics in the new BFHQ menu is the ranking system. Every 
 player begins at the lowly level of Private and can move up through the ranks by means of combat 
 and teamwork. Each promotion comes with a new badge, which other players on servers can see alongside 
 your nickname, and allows a bigger precedent over lower ranked comrades when applying for Commander 
 Mode. After being promoted to Private First Class, the next promotion will take more experience 
 points before being achieved, but the time put into unlocking it is worth it. With all of this 
 stuff that makes BF2 replayable you can enjoy this forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bldalyncsu
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 18, 2005 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a game of opposites. For every good thing, there's a bad thing to offset it. This 
 applies not only to the gameplay but to the technical aspects as well. This is not to say that 
 BF2 is a bad game, it's actually a very good game, it's just not great. Here are some examples 
 of my logic. First, BF2 is a beautiful game; especially the character and vehicle models. Unfortunately 
 though, the steep system requirements (relative to other games like HL2 and DOOM 3) forces you 
 to play a watered down version in order to maintain a good framerate. It would also have been nice 
 to see better particle/special effects. The explosions in the game look weak and the vehicle death 
 animations haven't changed much since BF 1942. The new stat tracking and award system in the game 
 is a very nice addition; but the loading times for the game maps is terrible. It's also worth mentioning 
 that some of the time requirements for many of the medals is stupendous. Communicating in the game 
 is much easier now with the VOIP and the q button function. Who can hold your q button down to 
 call out enemy forces which shows up on your teams' radar. This is a very nice upgrade to the game 
 and is incredibly precise. What bewilders me though is how the game can have such a well implemented 
 and precise feature but at the same time drop the ball on enemy versus friendly indentification. 
 When you look at an enemy, his or her name shows up red, and a friendly will show up blue; most 
 of the time. There have been many times when I shot the enemy with a red name and was punished 
 with a teamkill. This is simply unexcusable..... which leads me to my next major gripe. The inclusion 
 of the new commander and squad elements into the game definetly enables more teamwork oriented 
 gameplay; but the whole teamkilling punishment system has to be the worst feature I've ever seen 
 in a game. The truth is......... most teamkills are accidental, and while many could be avoidable, 
 having a punisment system just adds salt to the wound. Most people are going to punish you 95% 
 of the time. You already lose 4 points regardless, why should you lose two more???? What they should 
 have done is have a 4 point deduction (twice as much as killing an enemy) for a teamkill and dump 
 the punishment system. On most servers, habitual teamkillers will get kicked after 3 teamkills. 
 The three strikes your out rule is sufficient. Another indirect problem with the punishment system 
 is that it causes people to start flaming each other. This causes the whole team to suffer because 
 these people are not concentrating on the game. 
  Another thing that irrates me is the vehicle accessibilty. I love flying the F15, but in most cases 
 you will have to wait for the plane to spawn. What's truly frustrating is when you have been wating 
 for several minutes and somebody comes up and tries to take it from you. The courteous thing to 
 do is wait your turn, but some people actually believe that they own the plane so that doesn't 
 work. EA should have placed in some system to fix this problem. 
  Finally, why add in additional teamplay features but exclude an objective-based gameplay mode. 
 Conquest is fun, but outdated. Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault had a really nice objective-based 
 multiplayer gameplay mode, so why not BF2?
  I know it seems like I don't like BF2, but nothing could be further from the truth. I really enjoy 
 BF2, and there are those infamous battlefield moments that keep me coming back for more and more. 
 Flying an F15E on a bombing run and racking up 10 kills on one bombing is truly exhilirating. Taking 
 out an enemy APC with some C4 with six people inside is awesome. I just see a very good game that 
 could have been great if giving a little more love. BF2 is still an enjoyable and addictive experience.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuclearbomb2000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 18, 2005 4:15 am PT
Review:  its a fantastic game and this should be game of the year if you ask me for these reasons
  
  firstly the gameplay:
  its an unbelivable experience its like im really there the explosions 
 are realisticly made from the sounds to the blurring of your sight from the force, and the vehicles 
 have been improved greatly over vietnam with the helicopters being easier to control and more realistic 
 but it lacks the rope that used to carry vehicles in vietnam but its normally fine for some people 
 and the weapons accuracy is slightly better but could have been improved overall its a great exprience.
 
  
  
  secondly the graphics:
  the graphics are amazing nearly half life 2 potiential but missing some things the water is great 
 but when up close it looks like overlarge pixels :P and there are smoke physics if nobody has noticed 
 throw a grenade at some ongoing smoke and it moves away like it does in reality :O the textures 
 are great even when put on medium but the fog has long line on the ground you can see that while 
 flying : / overall i its a nice addition to the battlefield series.
  
  the sound:
  the sound is the best thing here its so realistic to here faraway explosions from the nearby ememy 
 artilery and thinking whether its gonna land on your base or not ; (
  and thew weapons sound like the real things , the vechiles sound good too the buggy being my favorite 
 because it sounds like an upgraded hummer :D the ambience should be admired because it gives you 
 the exprience that you are really there.
  
  
  
  overall:
  this game is a must buy if you ask me its great and should be played through out the years if youre 
 not a fan of the battlefield series this might change your mind :D.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 17, 2005 3:55 am PT
Review:  I love it, I really do. Teamplay, action, graphix, vehicals, unlockables, where to start. I know, 
 with a simple pros cons.
  
  Pros:
  -Same battlefield flavor, messed around with for the better.
  -Squads and comander mix up gameplay 
 and force a welcome amount of teamwork into the game.
  -All kits have theirs ups and downs and no 1 feels under of over powered.
  -Lots of modern vehicals 
 and weapons.
  -Full on stat tracking, so your progress in a game is not forgoten and disposed of.
  
  Cons
 
  -Big system specs means the lower end of computers wont get the best of graphix.
  -Requires lots of plays to get your stats up and chances are, unless you're cheating the system 
 or playing 24/7, You'll never make it onto the top list of the stats.
  
  Basic gameplay:
  You're a soldier, one of up to 32 on a team duking it out for map control and reinforcments. each 
 team starts with a set reinforcment limit, when it reaches 0, that team automatically loses. You 
 lose a reinforcment point by dieing and every so often, both teams will lose a set amount of reinforcments, 
 depending on how much of the map you control. The map control is done by staying at a flag long 
 enough to bring it down and replace it with your contery's flag. Once you own that land, you can 
 spawn at it and get an advantage, as you then have that areas vehicals close by for your disposal. 
 
  
  Additions/changes:
  The game adds a great deal. All kits now, across contries, feel the same. No more american engenier 
 kicking the ass of another engenier and no more super kits. Also, there is a stratigic comander. 
 His job is to stay out of combat and help the team out with his satalite control, commands, and 
 artilary strikes. He can so a scan of the entire field, esclusive to him, so he can see where all 
 enemies are. He can also set a scanner, that will reveal a small area on the other players maps. 
 This is good for reaveling a large gathering or an oncoming vehical, or just usful to help people 
 know where to search for reamining people after capturing an area. You can also send artillary 
 strikes, this will deal basically, blow up an area of your choice in a matter of a few seconds. 
 This makes you feel more like your playing a real time stratagy game, accept with the satisfaction 
 that your units are living players.
  
  Another welcome role is the squads, which over all, make you work as a team. The rewards of working 
 in a squad? Your leader will act as a walking spawn point, meaning if hte leader is good, you'll 
 get back into the action fast without the hassle of going back to a far away spawn point you control. 
 Also, individual squads get individual comands, meaning hte comander or your squad leader can tell 
 you where to go. If you disobey, then to bad your team noob, always listen to a squad leader!
 
  
  All together, they form to make this the most stratigic fps out on hte market, and non of these 
 additions hinder the already awsome gameplay of battlefield, on the contrary, it helps it!
  
  Technical:
  The graphix are amazing, for all you super computers out there. But I'm an average 
 joe, don't hate me. I bought this game, begging for it to work fine dispite my out of date graphix 
 card. TADA! It worked on low! But it didnt look like a next gen game, it looked like something 
 inbetween battlefield vietnam and 1942. But I must admit, it ran virtually laglessly with minimal 
 bugs, and from way up in the sky, those textures that are normally low res from up close look astounding. 
 The sound is awsome in effects but I saddly found no love for a mp3 playlist or and music for that 
 matter. But still, the radio voice ins sound like a battlefield, and something just satisfying 
 about blowing up a tank and hearing it explode. (I use an anti tank kit)
  
  Lasting appeal:
  What can I say, its battlefield with full stat tracking and unlockables. Play 
 long enough and do well enough, and you could find yourself with an upgraded weapon. These weapons 
 are a real beiuty to unlock. I havnt gotten 1 but I hear they're really fun and give you an edge 
 in combat, but not an unfair one. There are also tons of awards and ribbons to unlock. They dont 
 effect you but they're fun to get.
  
  Final comment:
  What can I say. I love this game. It's stratigic, but not an unwelcome thing. It's fast, but not 
 to an insayn degree. It gives you an edge to be talented but wont make you superman and it keeps 
 all the action intact while adding new kinds of action. This is the kinda game that will be cloned 
 by people time and time again, like a growing trend. My only hope is that they have something up 
 their sleeve for the next game to grow a new trend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gennaroc
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2005 11:26 am PT
Review:  Typically I play more tactical / simulation combat games (i. e. Americas Army and Raven Shield) . 
 I bought this game to mix it up a bit this summer and I was not disappointed... IT IS A BLAST. 
 Fast Action, Non-Stop Action, Team Action, Action, Action, Action. This game delivers fun from 
 the time you first start until somwone rips you away from the PC. 
  
  There is pretty good variety of maps (although you will tend to play only your favorites) but along 
 with that is wach map has 3 sizes (# of players) , this gives each map a diffrent approach and therefore 
 you can play the size you fell like. There are several classes and armies aslso adding to the variety. 
 You can gain medals, ribbons and other awards that ake it fun to try to attain while in battle 
 (has a "secret mission" feel to it) . BFHQ tracks all your stats and ribbons and has a leaderboard 
 where you can see your rank... this is where the addiction comes in. Seeing yourself advance is 
 a trip and you try to squeeze every point out of a map.
  
  Simply put.. This game rocks!
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who enjoys good fun combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumpy3
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2005 11:44 pm PT
Review:  At first, when I was downloading the demo to this game, I thought "this game will probably be good, 
 but I bet it wont be that different than other shooters", boy was I wrong! 
  This game is set in the middle east, and you can play as U. S. Marines, China, and Iraq folk. Each 
 group has thier own weapons and vehicles. The single player is all "instant action", which is when 
 you set up a game to play against bots. The whole piont of the game is to take over your outpoststs 
 or "tickets" once it's yours, you can spawn from it. By the end of the game, whoever has control 
 of more tickets wins. Before you join a game, you select a "job". You can be a medic, assult, engineer, 
 anti-tank, special forces, sniper, etc. With each job, you get specific abilitys like... a medic 
 can use defibrilator pads to revive a recently killed teamate, an anti-tank dude is strapped with 
 a rocket launcher. That ads veriety and strategy to the game. The vehicles in this game are great. 
 You can drive all sorts of humvees, buggys, tanks, boats, helicopters and even harriers!
  Although the single player is great, the multiplayer takes the game to a new level. Its so fun 
 to get online and hop in a huge helicopter, load it up with gunners (who have mounted mini-guns!) , 
 fly over to the enemies base, and give them hell! The online play is harder than the single player, 
 but beginers shouldnt have a problem with the multiplayer. It's the same style of gameplay of the 
 single player, with the ticket system. There is also a really cool "rainbow six" style verbal comand 
 menu, which can be toggled by simply pressing Q. It includes all sorts of commands, such as "I 
 need a medic!", "I need backup!", "fallow me!", "I need a ride!", etc. It is really neat to have 
 it so eazy to use, and if you play as any other country, its all in thier crazy languages! Having 
 real people fighting along your side in this game feels really great!
  The graphics in this game require its own paragraph! They look incredible. When I was downloading 
 the demo of this game, I was woried that it wouldnt run on my pc (because i dont exactly have the 
 best computer) , but I was plesently suprised when it did run. This WILL run on your computer, but 
 you might have to sacrifice quality of the graphics (shame on you!) . When played on a quality pc, 
 this game's graphics are breath-taking. 
  Passing this game up would be a crime!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4Goten
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 9, 2005 12:35 am PT
Review:  After playing Vietnam I was looking forward to this, got it threw the door to find that it didnt 
 work on my pc, all things being I bought a new one for college and it played fine. Start with the 
 good, the game is so immense that you feel like your in the middle of a war. The contontrols are 
 your normal for FPS but the vehicles are not any different from 1942 or Vietnam which is dissapointing 
 considering. I always feel very aggravated when playing this when I get booted for connection problems 
 that dont exsist, Counter Strike and Unreal work perfectly but this game seems obsessed with kicking 
 me every chance it gets. The servers are buggy and its hard to find a decent one were you can get 
 playing for any length of time to have fun. If you do find one then your in for a treat. THis game 
 has loads to offer and if they get round top fixing the bugs that shouldnt even exsist in the first 
 place then we will all be happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renez
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 8, 2005 6:08 pm PT
Review:  hi guys i played bf2 and i still play the game.
  
  the graphics are very high .
  the sounds is very clear and good.
  the gameplay is very good.
  
  the 1 min point is 
  
 
  to come in a server in online takes very long time : (
  
  the story mode .
  you play 1 of the 3 sides you want Moc . or china or Usa 
  you fight along with 16 people on 
 your side and enemy side.
  you can go in more than 12 vechicels 
  with tanks ,f16, boats and more stuff like that Even helicopters..
  more than 14 guns with unlock 
 guns from online.
  
  
  the online version you can play with 64 people.
  you still can go in cars and other stuff like that thats great !
  
  i play the game still even 
 my account had a bug -_- my luck......
  i played new more than 50 hours and everything you do you can see it on internet ore in BFHQ there 
 stand everything your rank what you did how long you played as sniper or other stuff like that 
 its a great game and i love it i just cant wait for bf2 special forces :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 8, 2005 4:32 pm PT
Review:  DICE didn't take the lackluster reviews of Battlefield Vietnam sitting down, and it is definitely 
 evident in the fun and exciting sequal that is Battlefield 2.
  
  An appropriate name too, as this is truly a sequal that has completely overhauled many of the games 
 already fun features.
  
  Graphically BF2 is top-knotch, everything has wonderful lifelike detail. The engine itself runs 
 surprisingly well considering how high tech the graphics are at some of the higher tweaked levels. 
 Everything looks authentic, and will only help immerse you into the realm of chaotic, mass FPS 
 combat. All vehicles are great representations of their present day counterparts, from the pontoon 
 boats, to the Harrier Fighter, its all here and looks like you could climb through your screen, 
 jump in and take off.
  
  The sound does decent as well, going to painstaking detail to match many of the weapons sounds 
 with their real life bretheren, so an AK-47 sounds just like a real AK being fired, which I thought 
 was a rather pleasant surprise. Explosions will rock you to attention as the screams of incoming 
 mortar shells fill you with panic and have you running for cover, only to hear the whoosh of a 
 Harrier's ducted fan engines flying overhead, carpeting the surrounding area with an array of bombs. 
 The sound suffers a little bit during the loading screens, which in BF: Vietnam consisted of a fantastic 
 60s-esque soundtrack with the likes of CCR and Jefferson Airplane. BF2 has no licensed tracks whatsoever, 
 and the music that is there is... ok, nothing great. Some decent music would have been great to 
 pass the time during the long loading screens.
  
  The gameplay has always been battlefield's high point, and BF2 does not disappoint in the least. 
 If you're looking for a single player shooter, this game is not going to be to your liking, as 
 its primary purpose in design from the ground up has been to cater to a multiplayer simulated war 
 environment. BF2 takes everything that made its predecessor great, and only does it better. BF2 
 goes far enough that it does not just feel like a BF:1942 mod, there are plenty of new odds and 
 ends, from vehicles, squad-based gameplay (with built-in teamspeak-esqe features) , to the Commander 
 interface, where a player who is voted as the commander for the entire team can issue orders to 
 squads, call in mortor strikes to areas, and send in spy drones to get a beat on enemy movement. 
 There is so much here that it will be keeping everyone busy long after the Special Forces expansion 
 hits shelves. There is literally too much to describe here in the terms of great gameplay, that 
 you need to just buy and see for yourself, especially if you even remotely liked BF:1942.
  
  The one negative to gameplay, and it has plagued the BF series since it came about, are the 
 load times between games. As of writing this review, the system that tested it was a 2.6ghz P4, 
 with 1 gig of ddr ram, and a geforce 6800 GT 256 mb vid card. Again, it still takes a good 30-35 
 seconds to load up the entire map. This was something many players were hoping to see reduced in 
 some form, but alas, you can't have everything.
  
  With all these great features, you'd be hard pressed to pass this game up. If you only buy one 
 PC game this year, make if BF2, as it is probably going to be the best value choice for quite some 
 time to come. Many maps and player classes (kits) give this game a ton of replay value. With the 
 mod community already getting to work, and an expansion already getting a lot of press attention, 
 BF2 will be a long-lasting edition into what is already an amazing gaming franchise to date. As 
 a reviewer, I recommend this highly, there is so much here that can't be put in a review without 
 taking many more pages than already have been written. If you're into FPS's, especially slightly 
 more realistic ones (where you can't take a rocket to the head and come back swinging) , you really 
 need to give this a look. If you've never played a Battlefield game, pick this one up. You will 
 not be disappointed.
  
  That's my take, take it or leave it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JRBottom
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 5, 2005 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Review is done on v1.02
  
  Gameplay:
  When the only thing bad about the gameplay of a game is the people who play it, it must be good. 
 Everything just feels perfect.
  
  Infantry - The aiming in this game is perfect. That's right, you probably here all of the moaning 
 about the aiming in this game. People complain because it is realistic. The guns don't fire a set 
 pattern, bullets vary in direction, and each gun has its own feel. The sprint feature is perfectly 
 done, with certain kits gaining a boost or decline in sprint time depending on what they are carrying. 
 The health is just right, not too quick of a death, but not too long of one. Infantry actually 
 works in this game, and is balanced vs. vehicles.
  
  Vehicles - I absolutely love the driving physics in this game. The jeeps drive great and are a 
 great transport tool. The tanks pack a good punch, but a few well placed anti-tank missiles will 
 easily take them out.
  Helicopters - Better than Vietnam, and little less n00b friendly, but still take practice to master. 
 The Blackhawk and some balance issues expected to be addressed in the 1.03 patch.
  
  Planes - Dogfights = Awesome! You can get in some pretty heated 2-4 aircraft dogfights. A little 
 issue with the power a bomber can have and it can very well dominate a map like Clean Sweep where 
 USMC always has the bomber, and the MEC need to cap flags for it.
  
  The Bad - Some weird bugs, like making teammates show up as enemies can get a little annoying. 
 The only reason I gave a 9 however, is because of other players. The TK system can be flawed at 
 times, and perfect at others. Vehicles are touchy and 1 mph tap will kill a friendly, most likely 
 resulting in a punish due to his 12 year old attitude (expect a lot of that) .
  
  Graphics:
  Wow, wow, wow. Did I motion wow? Best graphics in a game I've ever seen of this scale. 
 Everything from far off buildings to close up tanks is detailed. Don't expect to take advantage 
 of this however with out a high end PC and whole lot of RAM, which the game eats. Got a top of 
 the line PC? Then you're in for a wonderful treat. A perfect 10 for graphics.
  
  Sound:
  I am not blown away by the sound, but it is still solid. Can sound amazing at parts when you are 
 lying on the ground and bullets are whizzing by your head, and then it will get bugged and you 
 won't hear the grenade launch out of a GP30, or see it for that matter. Explosions sound good, 
 and gun fire is done well.
  
  Value:
  You will play this game for a while, if it's your kind of game. The ranking system and gun unlocks 
 isn't an eye-popping feature, but it adds some enjoyment and satisfaction. The points for ranks 
 are done to a point where not everyone will be a top rank, unfortunately, this means the casual 
 gamer. The hardcore gamer should be able to get through the first few ranks in under a month.
 
  
  What I left out:
  -There are a lot of morons playing this game, beware
  -I've heard issues with the server browser even with the patch, haven't had any myself
  -Some 
 random CTDs, but if you are having fun, you'll pass over them
  -Auto-balance is not done right. Keeps teams balanced but won't move a lone wolf player before 
 a squad leader, member, or even the commander
  -The commander feature is great, but once again, there are idiots the run into your artillery strikes 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asmackey
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 4, 2005 11:54 pm PT
Review:  It's a really fantastic game, but much more difficult to learn. The ret on weapons is much harder 
 to drop down on targets, and aerial vehicles are much harder to operate. The previous versions 
 of BF were easier to play/learn, but the overall gameplay of BF2 is much better withthe ability 
 to unlock weapons and gain rank. It is overall a fantastic game and is well worth the value that 
 you pay for it. It is offered in both CD and DVD format which makes it even easier to use depending 
 on your setup, however you must have a graphics card that can handle it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JHON_DOE
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 3, 2005 5:59 am PT
Review:  This game is REALLLLY but REALLLY addictive and if you're a fan of fps you should get it right 
 away. Now i will make a detailed review:
  
  Gameplay: like before, very addictive and with all the vehicules and the commands you can give 
 or receive, it will glue you to your pc chair
  
  Graphics: good graphics, but, to run the game at super-speed and with super-quality you need a 
 new-gen video card, i recommend nvidia's 6000 y 7000 series and ATI's X series.
  
  Sound: all the gunshots and footsteps sounded realistic, but after awhile you get bored of the 
 people saying "yes, sir" or "sorry pal"
  
  Value: will let you want to not have to sleep for weeks
  
  RT: i've been playing this game 
 since it came out every day. So if you're a sicko maniac for pc games like me you should get it 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mies_VanderKill
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2005 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Just buy it (after you spend $3k on a a decent rig first) . I haven't tried the voip feature yet, 
 but I will have to get a decent headset as you simply do not have the command options of BF1942. 
 I also would have preferred the Fkey voice control versus the Q button/mouse interface, but again, 
 voip will negate all of those issues. The maps are incredible.... real city landscapes... buildings 
 to hide in... snoipe from. The map with the damn is so realistic it is scary... the heights you can 
 go on construction cranes.... the complete realism of the environments is so awesome I have been 
 killed multiple times while I was "sightseeing". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawgsfan1447
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 30, 2005 12:24 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to a new ame coming along in the battlefield series, that new game has a lot to live 
 up to, and when Battlefield Vietnam rolled along, many people didn't feel it did. I was not one 
 of those people however. The hype surrounding Battlefield 2 was more for any game than I have ever 
 seen, when the demo came out, the excitement was record breaking. I was one of the first to click 
 the link, maybe in the first 50 but that is a total guess. Anyway, I was in the first wave to click 
 the link before the server was full. I had to go run a few errands and when I got back, my download 
 had been messed up. While I was pretty mad, I discovered my graphics cad would not run it, so it 
 didn't matter. A graphics card update and a couple weeks later I finally had my copy.
  
  When I got to my computer I immediately popped the DVD in and was ready to play that game. It installed 
 quick enough and after a few minutes, I was playing. My first thought was, eh this seems kind of 
 bland, but after a few minutes of playing I realized I was wrong on my first impression. This game 
 was amazing. The action it put you in, the graphics, it was all amazing.
  
  The graphics we have here are some of the best in any game. The detail on the buildings, the realism 
 you feel while standing in the streets of a village somewhere in the middle east. This addition 
 to a great series is the best of that series, and one of the best games of all time. Great for 
 many hours of fun and great moments in battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darcius
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 26, 2005 10:50 pm PT
Review:  BF2 is a great fun game but there are still alot of corrections EA has to put in to, on top of 
 that the servers are total garbage. 
  
  they should have used the old BF nam server set up instead of the garbaged Fileplanet ones (gamespy)
 
  
  also i think they needed to make diffrent nationality ranked gear instead of 5 weapons for all 
 teams like my gun crazyed m8 always says "why in the Heck would the US use a pkm?" 
  
  but all in all its still a fun game :) gaining ranks is a hard painstaking way to unlock stuff 
 though. and i think they should have put something about it in the manual instead of the little 
 3 line blerb about it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skippyj9
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 26, 2005 1:00 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a great FPS for the harrdcore realistic FPS fans. But for other people it's not 
 too great.
  
  It takes a while to learn to play the game decently and even when you do you feel like everyone 
 is a pro and you are an amature. Although in the end you realize only the pros are better than 
 you. You die a lot. I mean a lot. It is impossible to go through a round without dying at least 
 once. There are also many bugs. These are small bugs that are nothing if you know how to drive 
 around them.
  
  The graphics in this game are top-knotch that is if you have a super-computer. The game is made 
 so that in order to get great graphics you need to have a really really really good computer. My 
 computer runs Half-Life 2 on high smoother than Battlefield 2 and near bottom. My HL2 graphics 
 look better than my BF2 graphics too.
  
  The sound is great but I can't give it great because of the disadvantage of playing Middle Eastern 
 or Chineese. If you're on the US team the voice overs are in english and it is easier to get support 
 or help from a medic. Because here the game suffers from ultra-realism again. The Chineese speak 
 Chineese and the Middle-Eastern speak Arabic (or whatever they speak. So they have a huge disadvantage. 
 All of the other sounds like bullets, planes, copters, and explosions sound great.
  
  This has a good lasting appeal because of the stats but that's assuming you like the game.
  
 
  Overall this is an average FPS. Try the Demo first because it's free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PTYG
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 25, 2005 12:41 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is hands down the best PC game of 2005. The battlefield franchise has delivered another 
 fantastic game.
  
  Gameplay - In BF2 you can do what you want when you want. BF2 has 3 armies, US Marine Corps (USMC) , 
 Peoples Liberation Army (PLA) or China, and the Middle Eastern Coalition (MEC) . The armies are 
 pretty much identical to each other but you probably wont notice it. BF2 has 7 classes for each 
 faction with unique weapons. With a bunch of sea/land/air vehicles you won't be disappointed with 
 the variety. Also all the maps are extremely well done. If you start an online profile you have 
 the chance to level up, which in turn allows you to unlock weapons for each class. However what 
 makes this game hard is that after you reach the rank Lance Corporal it becomes extremely hard 
 to level up. Also some of the awards are very very very VERY hard to obtain. I have also noticed 
 a few major gameplay problems. Sometimes the enemies' names appear blue, or your teammates' names 
 appear red. Which creates massive confusion for the player. Another one is that you sometimes get 
 kicked for teamkilling when you haven't teamkilled at all. But I find these errors very rare. Another 
 thing is that all the people you find saying that this game is laggy/slow probably dont have a 
 very good PC or a terrible internet connection. (Yes, I dont like those people too)
  
  Graphics - What can i say, they're good. But it most of the time pretends on your PC (I recommend 
 a nVidia 6800 video card (It allows nVidia special effects and all setting turned on high) )
  
  Sound - Every sound that was done is great except for some of the weapon sounds that sound 
 weak, there are also some little things they could've added too.
  
  Value - You probably will not get tired of this title soon will all it's variety and great moments 
 in the gameplay.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - This is now my favorite game of all time. (Yes, surpassing Halo 2, and GTA)
 
  
  In closing, get this damn game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DDX2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 23, 2005 3:32 pm PT
Review:  The Battlefield series has been highly succesful ever since its first game Battlefield 1942. Now 
 its a few years later and the succesor to the legendary game is finally out. I realize that Battlefield 
 Vietnam came out between the two games, but in my opinion wasn't as great. Battlefield 2 delivers 
 on all levels. First off is it's singleplayer, while not as fun as it's multiplayer, is drastically 
 improved. The AI, while still not revoulutionary gave me some surprises. They have a basic knowledge 
 of tactics, and i found some times when one would distract me while another came from my side. 
 The only problem i have is that singleplayer came only have 16 player games, instead of 32 or 64; 
 Those kind of matches are reserved for the multiplayer portion of the game.
  
  Multiplayer has always been the Battlefield games strong point, and it's only improved with BF2. 
 One of the big features added to multiplayer is the online ranking system. With this players can 
 advance in rank starting with private. Also for doing certain in-game things you can earn medals, 
 awards, ribbons, and unlock class-specific weapons. Multiplayer games revolves around taking and 
 holding points on the map. Matches can have anywhere from 16, 32, and 64 player matches. Maps even 
 adjust to the amount of players from small maps with only four points, to massive battlefields 
 with around 10 points to capture. Maps become intense battles with planes and helicopters flying 
 over head, tanks driving every where and infantry slugging it on foot. Multiplayer is perfect and 
 probaly the best experiance you'll have with multiplayer all year. The only problem i have with 
 it is that you have to play ALOT to level up in rank and unlock weapons. Also sometimes the menu 
 freezes up when selecting a server which increases anxiety to get back into the battle. This freeze 
 only lasts a few seconds and doesnt affect load times, which are drastically decreased from the 
 last two games.
  
  Battlefield 2 is one of the best games this year. If you meet the system requirements go out and 
 buy BF2 its a blast.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blojib
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 23, 2005 9:02 am PT
Review:  The original Battlefield came out slightly buggy but it became on of the most entertaining and 
 satisfying games of recent times. The same can be said of Battlefield 2 albeit the annoyances are 
 slightly more annoying; yet the entertainment has been upped even further. 
  
  Graphically, BF2 is in tune with today's high end visuals: explosions create an immersive "shell 
 shock" effect that blurs your vision and simultaneously deafens you; character models are smoothly 
 animated and look great up close; smoke, fog and missile trails all look great and I swear I can 
 almost smell the burning oil from that charred wreckage. The over-the-top feeling only increases 
 the already action-packed joy to be had with this game. 
  
  The single player AI is decent enough that it wouldn't be too bad to play it every once in a while 
 but there are still some hang ups where your team doesn't listen to your commands or, occasionally, 
 they get stuck trying to go up a steep, unclimbable hill. However, you really shouldn't buy BF2 
 for its single player. I see the single player portion as a bonus for whenever you can't get online 
 or you simply want to test a new map out without getting owned. 
  
  The main reason to get BF2 is for multiplayer. Like any other online FPS, the public community 
 is filled with idiots and jerks but in general, multiplayer BF2 is the most fun you can have in 
 an online FPS. The built-in voice chat, much like in Counter-Strike Source, immerses you in the 
 game while also giving you a tactical advantage over your opponents. The designated commander position 
 is not something I've tried yet but it promises to be an experience unlike any other. 
  
  My main gripes with the game are basically stability (it crashes a few times) and the server browser. 
 However, these annoyances remind me of the original BF and I have faith that they will be patched 
 effectively especially with the community uproar over the problems. Overall, I will probably be 
 spending many sleepless nights fragging people with my Cobra. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 481989
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 22, 2005 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a game with plenty of ambition that suffers from poor execution. Fortunately, 
 the gameplay in itself is largely unaffected. But outside of the gameplay there are so many frustrating 
 aspects that many players will just give up and play something else.
  
  One of the most immediately recognizable flaws is the UI. It's almost like the people who designed 
 it strove to make it mediocre, but they failed even in that. It doesn't really matter how good 
 your computer is, the UI will lag intolerably. There are also a few bugs in it, for example I encountered 
 a bug while configuring my joystick that wouldn't let me assign functions to unassigned buttons 
 (I was using an Attack3 by Logitech) . Many of the server filters in the lobby don't work, either. 
 The loading times for multiplayer games are literally at the very least 3 minutes, although I've 
 had some loading times which ran upwards of 10 minutes. I reccomend you keep a bowl of tostitos 
 by your computer, or even better, a TV and a console to keep you busy during wait times.
  
  Once you actually start playing online, however, things start to run a little more smoothly. The 
 gameplay is excellent, and genuine fun. Lag is not really a problem except on 64 player servers 
 depending on the circumstances, and on mediocre servers that lag for everyone anyway. The squad 
 system opens up a new facet of gameplay, and while many people choose to ignore orders and do their 
 own thing, cohesive squads still exist, and when you join one you'll have a lot more fun.
  
  Single player, on the other hand, leaves a lot to be desired. It's still functional, but it's 
 replay value is very limited because you can't adjust the settings for anything except the difficulty 
 of the bots. Still, it's useful for practicing before playing in multiplayer, especially with aircraft.
 
  
  The sound in game is good, there's no music but it's not really nescessary. However, music outside 
 of the game leaves a lot to be desired. There are only 3 different tunes: 1 that plays in the menus, 
 1 that plays during loading screens for maps with the MEC, and 1 that plays during loading screens 
 for maps with the Chinese, and they all get old fast. It wouldn't even be much of a problem if 
 you could replace their music files for your own, but the music is in some obscure format you probably 
 have never heard of before.
  
  Overall the game itself is good. But there are many, many things outside of the actual gameplay 
 that are sure to frustrate less patient players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAPD911
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 22, 2005 10:33 am PT
Review:  Battlefield to how to describe............... Highly addictive, Great, Best Multiplayer, AAA, or 
 best FPS around.
  
  Battlefield 2 is a real multiplayer game the singleplayer part of the game isn't the best around 
 but Halo 2 got the same problem both games are made mostly for online gaming.
  before i played Battlefield 2 or even before BF1942 i played a lot of counterstrike now days i 
 play mostly Battlefield.
  its hard to get everything in your mind from that is how i'm gonna do it, because anything can 
 happen you need to stay on your toes to survive the multiplayer game the best thing its that you 
 can also use planes, tanks and cars. Battlefield doesn't have a large assortment of weapons, but 
 it makes up for it in the gameplay.
  The game have got better sinds the first battlefield wen the planes were to hard to fly in BF2 
 the planes handle great and even the helicopters are easy to fly.
  
  BF2 is a real shoot first ask cuestions later, shoot or be shot. if you like games like that BF2 
 is a great game for you.
  
  the weapons in BF2 all have strong points and weak points like the tank its strong to destroy a 
 big building full of enemy's but if you use a RPG at the back of the tank you can destroy it. same 
 goes for all the weapons strong and weak points that makes the game very fun to play especially 
 for online play.
  
  overall BF2 is the one of the best FPS for the PC.
  it just misses a great singleplayer game for people that got modem.
  8.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeffis
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2005 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Ladies and gentlemen, here it is at last, the highly anticipated sequel of the Battlefield franchise. 
 I must say there are are some big changes in this game compared to its older brothers, as this 
 game take you through modern combat instead of World War 2 stuff. 
  
  The gameplay was never erroneous, defective, or deficient, and you know what they say to do to 
 things that are not broken. Scalable maps make action run unrelieved and charismatic, something 
 not obtainable on BF1942. You possess twelve maps total, each being qualified to be ran in 16, 
 32, or 64 player modes. Each manner contains a disparate encountering, by virtue of in the 16-player 
 mode, you get a miniature rendition of the map, while on the 64-player fashion of the identical 
 map, you procure a tremendous translation. From this cause, scalable. Nearly all of the maps are 
 in breathtaking backdrops like Gulf of Oman and FuShe Pass, which are two of my favored. When entertaining 
 the 16-player version on implicitly any map, I recognized each one bequeathed their own paradoxical 
 provocations. It is not an unconstrained, continuous shot to the flag, so you should be at liberty 
 to want to fire up the single player form to acquire use to the maps preceding devising confrontations 
 with camarilla. However, utterly, you only get in single player the 16-contender version of the 
 map. 32 and 64 competitor modes necessitate online play. Numerous maps advocate altered generalships 
 or using diversified vehicles to pulverize your adversary. There are an exceptional few which unmistakably 
 structure consequential manipulation of air supremacy. I would not pronounce that every map is 
 commendably in equilibrium, on account of from time to time, BF2 suggests as though the opposite 
 contingent may have the leverage. Manifold maps contain one foundation where you commence and the 
 remnant of it must be vanquished in order to triumph.
  
  The squad system is one of the must under-rated features of this game. It is just... indescribable 
 to go in with a squad in a helicopter to take over a base perfectly. If you are unfamiliar with 
 the Battlefield series, the most popular game mode (and in Battlefield 2, the only mode) consists 
 of your team vs. their team capturing several points on a map and hopefully holding them long enough 
 to win the game. These points you can respawn in after you die. Easy enough? No. In fact, it can 
 be a challenging, yet engaging experience to fight for this small, symbol of ownership for this 
 area. However, something that helps with this is the new squad system. The squad system lets you 
 join up with 5 buddies or 5 strangers in hopes to capture bases. Your squad can also use a voice 
 communication system, something I've taken a liking to. Also, your squad has a squad leader, who 
 can give orders to the rest of the squad or request orders from the commander. The commander is 
 someone who basically orders everybody on your team around. He can also call for radar scans, supply 
 drops or even call for some deadly artillery. Being the commander is like playing an extremely 
 simple RTS, while at the same time playing a mindgame with his teammates to trust him. This trust 
 is often critical in the game.
  
  Two additional classes are contained in BF2. Special Forces is one, with agreeable control and 
 handling, eminently by swarming behind antagonist dominion and decimating them. The gun they possess 
 is likewise a pleasure, nevertheless, you have to contend with the class in order to discern the 
 sufficient philosophy of it. I correspondingly preferred the C4 explosives that could be affixed 
 to somewhat anything, markedly tanks. Detonate the tank with a remote and osculate that tank guiltless 
 cheerio. Special Forces further occupy the competency to sprint, which is pleasant to have at the 
 interchanging duration as fast-paced, assiduous predicaments of engagement.
  
  The Support class permits you to disburse ammo to impoverished units. This is not the greatest 
 class to subsist in if you desiderate to be a constituent of the sortie. However, being capable 
 to issue your sniper a reload practically anywhere on the map instead of at chosen ammo crateswhich 
 are prevalently at no time anyplace proximal to the unfeigned combatis lucrative in its own unequaled 
 practice. Anew, this is heightened when in a vehicle. Benevolent units need just journey by and 
 immediate outfitted-to-the-saber-tooth standing is reinvigorated.
  
  A further, admirable preference is the commander position, which entitles you to accrue ranks and 
 develop on ranked game servers. Following matches, the victorious team's commander earns points, 
 in which they would embrace the responsibility of acquiring supplies, issuing injunctions, or request 
 for artillery to triturate the premise. If you are not intended to inhere as a commander, other 
 participants will be more than predisposed to let you cognize that, implementing an insurrection 
 and render you with a zealous, eager kick in the posterior out of that standing. Yet, this characteristic, 
 and innumerable others, wholly work satisfactory if you are in a clan, and can sport the game on 
 a routine foundation. Otherwise, fortuitous rendezvous positively do not make this property, or 
 modish ones, work exceedingly well.
  
  The sound in Battlefield 2 is quite good. The individual weapons all have distinctive sounds and 
 many players will find that the sound of an enemy weapon will give away their position and they 
 will find that theyll want keep their own ears open and be selective when they choose to open 
 fire when on offense. Some interesting effects such as a distinct jet engine sound heard over the 
 radio when a pilot reports, and a ringing ears effect that takes place when a large explosion takes 
 place round out a good auditory experience.
  
  The vehicles in Battlefield 2 are much the same as in past games. Youll have the slower heavy 
 vehicles such as tanks and APCs, and lighter faster vehicles such as a Humvee. Each has their own 
 strengths and weaknesses, and like the past games vehicles are an important part of the game, but 
 they do not dominate the game. Driving directly into an enemy base might seem like a good way to 
 capture it but if youre alone you wont last long.
  
  The air units in Battlefield 2 also havent changed a whole lot. Jets and helicopters certainly 
 can inflict some serious damage on the ground but they wont win the battle alone. Also many bases 
 are now equipped with their own fixed surface to air missiles positions meaning that any solider 
 can potentially take down air units. While not defenseless (equipped with flares) a few SAM missiles 
 can do a good job of dispersing or destroying an enemy air attack.
  
  The graphics in Battlefield 2 are stellar, especially considering the size of the maps you play 
 on. The lighting provides for interesting opportunities for cover and look great, and the textures 
 provide a great sense of the natural surfaces. Each building and piece of cover looks sufficiently 
 unique so that its not hard to figure where you are. These graphics do come with the price of 
 some fairly high system requirements. Provided you have a relatively new video card you should 
 be in good shape, but beyond that you may want to consider an upgrade.
  
  I must say that thsi game is a must buy and it is definitely worth upgrading your computer for. 
 Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: equuleus102
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 21, 2005 4:33 am PT
Review:  For several years I have been a devoted Counter-Strike fan, but to be honest, I am having much 
 more fun playing Battlefield 2 at the moment. Battlefield 2 features an acceptable amount of weapons 
 to choose from and is an excellent choice if you are in to FPS games.
  
  Pros:
  -Amazing sound effects make you feel like you are really in combat.
  -Great graphics, almost 
 on par with Counter-Strike: Source
  -Excellent multiplayer, up to 64 players
  -Familiar FPS control setup
  -Pilot jets and helicopters
  -Drive tanks and armoured cars
 
  -3 armies to choose from: U. S., Chinese, or Middle Eastern Coalition
  -Great variety of soldier classes
  
  Cons:
  -Small assortment of weapons 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markdzebissov
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 19, 2005 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is one of the greatest games of the 21st century. It has nearly perfect graphics, 
 sound, gameplay, and realism. I like this game a lot becuase of the teamwork involved. This is 
 a very social game. If you have an Alienware and you don't buy this game, then you are an idiot. 
 Most people who negatively review this game are poor and anti-social people who cant afford a good 
 computer. They just don't get this game. I must personally say, this game would make Eric Cartman 
 want to say "Kickass!" If I said kickass when I first got this game, I am very sure Cartman would 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  
  1) Graphics: The graphics are very good but not spectacular. They don't reach the level of beauty 
 that you see in FarCry or even Half-Life 2. But don't take that as an insult as this game is no 
 slouch visually just not the powerhouse that many of the early reviews indicated. They obviously 
 haven't played that many games other than BF 1942.
  
  2) Sound: Sound in this game is very good. Nothing spectacular jumps out at you as being innovative 
 but they did a fine job on the audio.
  
  3) Gameplay: The game plays great when it's not bugging out (see The ugly:) . You have many classes 
 of soldier to choose from which makes this a great choice for those who like to play a lot of different 
 roles. The addition of the "Special Forces" class is incredible. Commander mode allows the user 
 to take the reigns of the force, drop artillery, supplies, and UAV support (radar) . BF2 retains 
 its capture the flags strategy which is very fun. Also enjoyable is the RPG like growth of your 
 character. The more points you earn from kills, assists, flag related achievements, and other various 
 forms of point earnings your character gains rank and eventually gets the ability to unlock weapons. 
 Your rank also serves to help or hurt you when applying for the Commander role. If you liked BF1942 
 you will also like BF2. If you hated BF1942 you will also enjoy BF2 (as I hated 1942) . This game 
 is very fun.
  
  4) Performance: On a Radeon x800 series or nVidia 6800 series with a supporting cast of at least 
 2ghz and a gig of memory you will be able to experience this game on it's highest settings. Lesser 
 systems will still be able to play the game very well which makes BF2 appealing. Actually, the 
 medium settings do not vary that much from high so you won't lose that much in visual quality. 
 You also get the choice to buy the game on CD rom or DVD this is how games should be sold and most 
 are catching on.
  
  5) Choppers: Very nice aspect to the game. They can unleash a great deal of punishment onto a target 
 but they become a very big target themselves and can not evade AA as easily as a jet.
  
  The bad: 
  
  1) Maps: There are too few map choices. This is not a big problem as there are 
 just enough to find ones you like and dislike but in todays gaming world I expect more.
  
  2) Jets: Jets are not a positive in this game. The maps in general are too small for any serious 
 air combat. They also add an element of whatever to the game as you dont see too often one fighter 
 jet making its way onto a battlefield. Theres not enough sufficient AA to counter jet pilots since 
 they can elude the AA easily. Choppers on the other hand bring a very realistic feature to the 
 game.
  
  3) Character progression: This is a positive and a negative in BF2. The only negative being that 
 the character progression makes playing on public servers a poor experience as everyone is about 
 getting stats instead of winning the map. This can be a big downer if you like to be a commander.
 
  
  The ugly:
  
  1) Logging in: Pre-patch this game took forever to log into. BF2 keeps track of your characters 
 stats and creates a gamespy account to aid in this. So when you load up and "log in" you have to 
 pass through their login server. This should take but a few seconds however before EA patched this 
 game BF2 would try to automatically load their server list, locate a server for you based on no 
 criteria you establish, and connect you. This would cause users to spend possibly 5-10 minutes 
 before they even get to the server screen and often times you'd be sent to an empty server. This 
 was fixed with the patch.
  
  2) CTD: Crashing to desktop was common, again pre-patch. EA has since fixed a lot of these issues 
 but you can still find some lurking around.
  
  Overall: This game now runs well. Public servers will cause you headaches as you have to put up 
 with sub-par connections, hippidy hopping noobs who think BF2 is CS, and no team play. The graphics 
 are smooth, done well, and pleasant to look at. The modern day environments really make BF2 standout 
 against the 100 WW2 FPSs out there. Youll love the game play once you get a hang of it and the 
 learning curve is not long. Youll have a blast working with the different classes.
  
  BF2 is a must play for serious FPS gamers. Even if you dont end up keeping it as your primary 
 play you will not regret the experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcarey
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 18, 2005 4:26 am PT
Review:  OK to begin they have TWO patches out already 1.01 and 1.02 the later is to fix a HUGE memory Leak 
 that causes servers to crash and get Laggy in the 1.01 patch problem is now you still have ALOT 
 OF LAG plus you get connection problems and disconnected from server insted of fixing things with 
 the patched they keep adding more problems to it.
  
  Next the weapons are inaccurate you can be standing behind a guy at two feet pump 30 rounds at 
 him and he does not die he turns around puts one round into you you die I don't know how often 
 that happens I lost count. It takes 3 to 4 rounds with anti tank to take out a tank by that time 
 he knows where you are and your dead. I hit a chopper with 5 rounds from a tank keeps flying. Oh 
 the best is you can just tap someone ever so slightly with any vehicle and they die and you get 
 a team kill that subtracts 5 points from your score whether or not they forgive you WHy ask to 
 forgive them if they get a deduction anyway. 
  
  THIS GAME NEED ALOT OF WORK I AM GOING BACK TO BATTLEFIELD DC till they fix there problems. 
 
  
  +BDS+ MERLIN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callmepsycho
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2005 12:28 am PT
Review:  To cut through all the hype, froth and bubble; in short Battlefield 2 is a worthy successor to 
 the previous Battlefield titles. Whilst there are many naysayers that claim this or that is broken 
 / horrible, on the whole BF2 provides a highly addictive and immersive FP experience.
  
  On high end machines the visuals are nothing short of stunning for a high action MP on such large 
 maps. The choice of factions in the US, Middle Eastern and China are well chosen to engender interest.. albeit 
 at the sacrifice of that all too often annoying PC censorship. Adding the faction specific textures 
 and languages only adds to the feel.
  
  The feel of the maps are vast and detailed. The extra functions like sprint and squad / team / 
 command work also add to games appeal.
  
  Much has been said about infantry combat and I would tend to agree that bullet spray has been a 
 touch over done. Standing or running directly in front of an enemy unit and emptying a magazine 
 should score one at least some hits. On the whole though, infantry combat still works well at medium 
 to long range. The snipers are quite entertaining but require some precision shooting. 
  
  The jets miss the addition of a radar, which is peculiar considering the pretext of a future war 
 setting. Without radar, even for other aircraft, the player must resort to WWI tactics of continually 
 circling to look for prey and ensure one hasnt themselves attracted undesired attention. It is 
 all too easy to become anothers BBQ.
  
  The Helicopters are a little under responsive to the throttle, ie one cant attain a rapid rate 
 of accent or decent without having to apply heavy pitch. They also suffer from considerable drift 
 that is hard to correct when one tries to circle a target in close orbit.
  
  Other than that, the game is great. It ran surprisingly well on a 3 year old P4 3G Raedon 9800 
 Pro with all options at max.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenHoot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 14, 2005 3:11 pm PT
Review:  If you played Joint Operations made by Novalogic and wondered how the game would be if Novalogic 
 actually listened to its community's great ideas and implemented them into the game then you need 
 to play Battlefield 2. BF2 is everything you could hope for in a FPS. It's realistic enough so 
 that tactics and teamwork work better than run-and-gun and going Rambo but its arcadie enough so 
 that you have a blast at all times and dont have to get hung up and on the real world decisions 
 you would be faced with. 
  
  The game play in BF2 is very well done, focusing on teamwork and tactics but still allowing the 
 player to do whatever they want at anytime. The way BF2 incorporates teamwork so easily is by the 
 VOIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol) and the almost too easy way of entering/creating a squad. There 
 is just one game mode type with is Conquest but this gamemode is what carried the battlefield franchise 
 along. It is a shame that there is no CO-OP mode which may come in later from EA or from a Mod.
 
  
  The Graphics in BF2 are also very well done. You will probably need a newer video card and powerful 
 machine to see all the beauties of BF2 but its worth it. All the textures, models, buidling, grass, 
 tree, vehicles, everything really looks nice. There is sometimes problems with the ragdolls causing 
 them to twitch around sometimes has the ragdoll move everytime so thats its laying flat instead 
 of rested up against a wall for instance.
  
  The sound in BF2 is tremendous. The sounds of bullets being shot, tanks firing, artillery raining 
 down, commands being shouted by your squad leader, and the sounds of all the vehicles are very 
 well done and bring a feel of actually being there.
  
  This game is pretty much all multiplayer and can be played for 100+ hours so you're going to get 
 you money's worth. The single player is alright, but 8 v 8 bots gets kind of boring being that 
 you can only play the 16-player versions of each map on singleplayer.
  
  Most Buy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leunam
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2005 8:45 am PT
Review:  If you are reading this review, then you must have some interest in this sort of game. If you have 
 interest in this sort of game, then you will fall in love with this game. Maybe a 10 seems too 
 perfect, but if you have a PC that can run this game smoothly, then you will see it is a perfect 
 online gaming experience. When you finally experience being in a squad that communicates through 
 the mic, and a squad leader that communicates with the commander and your squad is a force to be 
 reckoned with, even if your army loses the round, you will feel completely satisfied: a feeling 
 not too many games can give. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuillermoX
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 13, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Disclaimer- I'm sure there are typos, but the gamespot spell checker isnt the best, sorry. 
  There isn't much to say that hasn't already been said by other reviewers, and the weird part is 
 all the praise is well deserved. The only problem is I feel like I have paid 50 bucks to get in 
 the BF2 beta test. The game is GREAT fun, when you're playing, which if your experience is like 
 mine, will be about 30% of the time spent (the other 70% is on loading times and finding a game 
 and such, mostly 'verifying client data') . I seriously have to wait at least 5 minutes between 
 clicking a game and getting into it, and its not even the loading bar thats the problem. I do all 
 the apparent loading in about 45 secs before this verifying part, and then the rest of the loading 
 seems to take place once I'm actually in the game (murdering my frame rate for 3-5 mins) . The VOIP 
 system worked fine before, but this time around it seems like they screwed something up. When me 
 and my friends play, theres a wierd line of chat that has to be used, as some people can only seem 
 to hear certain other people (in the same squad we had one guy who we could hear, but couldnt hear 
 us no matter what he changed in his options, and one guy who could hear everyone but the first 
 guy) . It NEEDS a patch (or patches) bad, and if they had waited a couple weeks to put this game 
 out, I'd have given it a much better score. Add in the fact that the only patch they've put out 
 to fix any of this was actually so bad that they put a message on their webpage telling everyone 
 who used it to reinstall the game from scratch, and you've got one heck of a pile of problems. 
 But man is it fun when it works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingRoy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 12, 2005 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo before buying the game, it was very cool and it had not too many bugs.
  I was able to play it with a very weak system (P4 2.8ghz, GF5200fx, 512MB ram) .
  
  But now 
 I bought the game and I find too many bugs...
  The game is inoptimised, it will lag with every graphic card you will have.
  I experienced that... 
 I have now a Geforce 6800GT and 1,5GB ram and I lag in medium configuration!
  EA said that 1GB ram was recommended to play high graphics, but that's false!
  2GB is truly necessary 
 for this game. 
  The textures are ram eaters!
  So, for playing high, have an high powered system... you will really need of it.
  
  On the 
 other side, the game will become highly addictive, you will pass your entire days on it to unlock 
 grades, medals an weapons.
  Playing multyplayer is so cool! 
  Fighting other players may be really hard but you will be very proud the first time you will be 
 the best player in the game and have your place on the gold medal.
  
  The gameplay have some minor defaults... Like the punishing system, some noob and little punks 
 will punish you for accidents and will loose an high number of points...
  
  The graphics are perfect! Very realistic! But like I said before, they are optimise for nothing 
 and you will lag on high powered systems...
  
  Sounds are very realistics too! I can't say more because they are so perfect!
  
  The two other 
 categories are personal so, I won't put my opinion.
  
  So, good bye and have fun with Battlefield 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anselmomh
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 12, 2005 4:33 am PT
Review:  This game is everything i thought it would be, and at the same time some things i didnt think it 
 would be. 
  
  Gameplay awesome, Graphics awesome, Sound awesome. I start playing this game at like 9pm and i 
 say to myself "a couple hours then sleep". Next thing i know the sun is coming into my window and 
 i have 2 hrs before work :P It totally sinks you into the look and feel of war and i love every 
 minute of it :) 
  
  
  Things i dont like : ( are the sound features are extremly buggy .. its pretty miss on the hit/miss 
 scale thus far. The game has memory leaks which are being worked on. And the menu system is slow 
 and buggy (think they fixed it in the patch that had memory leaks)
  
  At any rate i recommend it to anyone that likes FPS games and war games :) its TOTALLY worth the 
 money that you pay for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brundlefly76
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 11, 2005 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Dice has done a great job with BF2. A lot of people have said it is what Joint Operations should 
 have been, and I totally agree - and then some.
  
  BF2 is not perfect. 
  
  -It has some steep hardware requirements. 
  
  -The in-game browser and control config shipped 
 with the game was horrific (even the patch didnt patch very SIMPLE issues such as 'REALLY - dont 
 show full servers! 
  
  HINT: DIce, the code for this is :
  
  bool IsFull (short maxplayers, short numplayers) { 
  return numplayers == maxplayers; // Free 
 from me!
  } 
  
  -The networking is teeth-grindingly erratic - esp during critical and busy moments
  
  -EA's 
 ranked server rollout need was underestimated
  
  -The two issues above together are especially problematic - you ABSOLUTELY need to get on a server 
 with 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 10, 2005 2:51 am PT
Review:  Geez, there ain't nothing like joining a game with a buddy of yours, entering a squad, and chattering 
 away on your microphones while you shoot, blast, and blow up every single thing in your crosshairs 
 to oblivion. There's just absolutely nothing like it. Sometimes when you're nerdy enough and psyched 
 enough in the game you just want to declair "OWNAGE!" on the other team, because you've just blown 
 them all to hell.
  
  Part of this review will be spent trying to describe to you just how awesome some moments in this 
 game can be.
  
  There was that one time when my squad was near a base all camping and such, and we were trying 
 to capture the flag, but it wasn't letting us, so we knew there must be an enemy nearby, but we 
 couldn't see him. I looked in the tower above the flag, and thought to myself, "hmmm, maybe he's 
 camping prone inside that tower...?", so I chuck a grenade right off the top of its ceiling and 
 onto the floor, and BOOM! I got two kills before you could say TAKE COVER!! We took that flag easily.
 
  
  There are also some other extremely EXTREMELY movie-like things that happen, like the time when 
 I was walking along a dirt sidewalk with a patch of grass next to it on Songhua Stalemate, and 
 I see an enemy TANK staring DIRECTLY AT ME. I didn't hesitate to go prone in the grassy patch, 
 but knew I was doomed. He was going to run over me for SURE! Little did I know, that tank had a 
 prone spot underneath it where someone could easily lay down under and stay hidden. The tank rolled 
 RIGHT OVER ME, and I noticed I hadn't died, then realized what just happened, didn't take time 
 to scream "OMG!" and planted C4 while he was still looking for me in the other direction, and BOOM!!
 
  Owned to the gazillionth degree.
  
  My words can't describe how awesome either of those experiences were because you really need to 
 try the game for yourself to know just how great and unique the multiplayer in this game is. After 
 playing this, I can't stand playing a round or two of CS, because THERE JUST ISN'T ANY C4 OR HELICOPTERS!!! 
 Not to say I wasn't addicted to CS for three years straight.
  
  Anyway, this game is the incarnation of the term "seeing is believing." You MUST experience this 
 game for yourself to see how great it is. Those two moments I described to you are two of the lesser 
 awesome things that happened to me, because all the other great moments would take up all the space 
 in this review all by themselves. An internet review just can't describe it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gavhad
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2005 1:37 am PT
Review:  September 10, 2002. Digital Illusions bewildered the gaming world with its now honorable, illustrious 
 multiplayer World War II first person shooter, Battlefield 1942. I recognize I was agog to witness 
 some entity CounterStrike-ish convincingly rematerialize on the PC. Road to Rome, the cardinal 
 official expansion, came out in early February 2003. It exhibited six supplementary maps and nine 
 additional vehicles. Yawn. Where were the new game modes? Equivalent game, still, but it shaped 
 BF a wee fraction better. Then there was Secret Weapons of WWII in September 2003. This expansion 
 augmented some gratifying features (e. g., the rocket pack, the C-47 allowing spontaneous drop off 
 points, etc.) , but inescapably propounded the identical configuration as the antecedent expansionaggrandized 
 maps and broadened weapons. Battlefield Vietnam struck the shelves mid March 2004 and exhaustively 
 thunderstruck my sentiments. Greater intensity, increased focus, amassed tense spectacles. When 
 I understood Battlefield 2 was debuting in June, I established my pre-order and had an expeditious 
 transference of the shipment to my home. I was not discontented when it arrived at my doorstep.
 
  
  If you have in nay manner played BF1942, BF2 is the epitome, the archetype, of every first person 
 shooter: chock-full of brimming action, recklessly climacteric and incisive, and strata upon strata 
 of succulent, luscious eye confectionery. Alternatively of using Axis and Allies, you now immerse 
 yourself in either the People's Liberation Army of China, the conscientious, antiquated U. S. A., 
 or the Middle Eastern Coalition. Everything functions the same as BF1942, with ratherish conformances 
 and readjustments here and there. Nothing refractory or seditious like the predecessor. Graphics 
 and aural resonance are siphoned up and out with remarkable explicitness. Unequivocal jubilation 
 permeated my room as I combed through this impressive, poignant sequel. 
  
  The gameplay was never erroneous, defective, or deficient, and you know what they say to do to 
 things that are not broken. Scalable maps make action run unrelieved and charismatic, something 
 not obtainable on BF1942. You possess twelve maps total, each being qualified to be ran in 16, 
 32, or 64 player modes. Each manner contains a disparate encountering, by virtue of in the 16-player 
 mode, you get a miniature rendition of the map, while on the 64-player fashion of the identical 
 map, you procure a tremendous translation. From this cause, scalable. Nearly all of the maps are 
 in breathtaking backdrops like Gulf of Oman and FuShe Pass, which are two of my favored. When entertaining 
 the 16-player version on implicitly any map, I recognized each one bequeathed their own paradoxical 
 provocations. It is not an unconstrained, continuous shot to the flag, so you should be at liberty 
 to want to fire up the single player form to acquire use to the maps preceding devising confrontations 
 with camarilla. However, utterly, you only get in single player the 16-contender version of the 
 map. 32 and 64 competitor modes necessitate online play. Numerous maps advocate altered generalships 
 or using diversified vehicles to pulverize your adversary. There are an exceptional few which unmistakably 
 structure consequential manipulation of air supremacy. I would not pronounce that every map is 
 commendably in equilibrium, on account of from time to time, BF2 suggests as though the opposite 
 contingent may have the leverage. Manifold maps contain one foundation where you commence and the 
 remnant of it must be vanquished in order to triumph.
  
  The game engine manufactures everything superlatively harmonious in design, with physics looking 
 like the vanguard characteristic of BF2. All of the intelligence with reference to the weapons 
 and vehicles walloped into BF2 makes it appear unconditionally, undividedly palpable and irrefutable. 
 Recoil, trajectory, and without exception, every solitary, distinctive physics nomenclature is 
 perforated out of BF2 with a gracefulness exclusively the precursor habituated. Over and again, 
 you will covet to acquire an unrivalled computer system to secure BF2 maneuvering placidly. BF2 
 remunerates high-end computer users with sonorous, bountiful minutiae from, in essence, each and 
 every conjecturable, plausible perspective. A never-ending aggregate of superfluous, inordinate, 
 extravagant eye candy awaits you in every map and each vehicle. Exploit every object and collide 
 into each power-driven contrivance measurably a solitary continuance to behold how exemplary and 
 conscientious each one resembles to their authentic counterparts.
  
  Online play is where the game extraordinarily radiates its abundant capability. Accessible tools 
 grant distinctive squads to be molded to sustain their own objectives. A unique scoring system 
 compensates players who extend medical, ammo, or repair support to their teammates. The premium 
 benefit with reference to that is you do not need to abandon your Medic, Engineer, or the new Support 
 troop susceptible by just standing outside in suspense for a sniper to rip their head off. Medics 
 driving an APC candidly need to ride transversely to where medical application is imperative and 
 ALL of the infantry units nigh get meliorated. The equivalent is with Engineers and Support troops.
 
  
  Two additional classes are contained in BF2. Special Forces is one, with agreeable control and 
 handling, eminently by swarming behind antagonist dominion and decimating them. The gun they possess 
 is likewise a pleasure, nevertheless, you have to contend with the class in order to discern the 
 sufficient philosophy of it. I correspondingly preferred the C4 explosives that could be affixed 
 to somewhat anything, markedly tanks. Detonate the tank with a remote and osculate that tank guiltless 
 cheerio. Special Forces further occupy the competency to sprint, which is pleasant to have at the 
 interchanging duration as fast-paced, assiduous predicaments of engagement.
  
  The Support class permits you to disburse ammo to impoverished units. This is not the greatest 
 class to subsist in if you desiderate to be a constituent of the sortie. However, being capable 
 to issue your sniper a reload practically anywhere on the map instead of at chosen ammo crateswhich 
 are prevalently at no time anyplace proximal to the unfeigned combatis lucrative in its own unequaled 
 practice. Anew, this is heightened when in a vehicle. Benevolent units need just journey by and 
 immediate outfitted-to-the-saber-tooth standing is reinvigorated.
  
  A further, admirable preference is the commander position, which entitles you to accrue ranks and 
 develop on ranked game servers. Following matches, the victorious team's commander earns points, 
 in which they would embrace the responsibility of acquiring supplies, issuing injunctions, or request 
 for artillery to triturate the premise. If you are not intended to inhere as a commander, other 
 participants will be more than predisposed to let you cognize that, implementing an insurrection 
 and render you with a zealous, eager kick in the posterior out of that standing. Yet, this characteristic, 
 and innumerable others, wholly work satisfactory if you are in a clan, and can sport the game on 
 a routine foundation. Otherwise, fortuitous rendezvous positively do not make this property, or 
 modish ones, work exceedingly well.
  
  There are definite blemishes, though, and they are noticeable, only due to the certitude that they 
 have perpetuated in every other rendition of BF. I surmise that the single player portion of BF2 
 is a decent practice to understand the game. Other than that, I do not apprehend why it is an option. 
 The AI is incompetent and unqualified. Do not anticipate them being dexterous to perform discerning, 
 intelligent decisions when behind the wheel of any vehicle. This is severely, accurately brutalized 
 in the midpoint of single-player commissions. Commander in the corresponding manner is likewise 
 as good as utterly unavailing, as bots do not interpret how to chivy mandates. Keyboard controls 
 took me an interim to grasp, and several friends took time immemorial delicately synchronizing 
 the controls until they got it specifically how they required the controls to be. What was exasperating 
 was the verity that the BF2 profile does not store your control configurations. So barring this, 
 you enjoyed the equivalent control design that incipiently was apportioned, if you play at supplementary 
 computers, anticipate precisely coordinating your controls, a second time.
  
  BF2 is not a vast vault for the franchise, but it furnishes the series with widely spaced harmonization 
 that supports the game to stand out from its predecessors, a petite speck. There is not a substance 
 astray with BF2 you have not previously encountered while playing dissimilar games in the BF legacy. 
 In its intactness, a supplementary, accomplished illustration of why Digital Illusions dismayed 
 the gaming commonwealth the inaugural time in 2002.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2005 1:14 pm PT
Review:  One of the most famous remarkable games, battlefield 1942, along with some fantasic mods and expansion 
 packs. Here we are now with the most ultra realistical game ever made BF2, stunningly good enough 
 to make it real. Everthing about this game is extremly good, i mean it, even if your not a fan 
 of 1st person shooters, you will be amazed at the detail and the hard work that has gone into this 
 game
  
  Hardly any game ever, has beaten such a our worldly stunning game, not a single bug !
  Perhaps 
 some little things may be come annoying, but, it doesn't mind me, i have no attention to that since 
 im more bothered in to getting the game played !
  
  Look what gamespot gave it, look at the screen shots, look at the multiplayer. I mean, how, can, 
 a game like this make over thousands of people play it, surely that must mean that they enjoy it 
 !
  
  Only such a game like this requires a ultra sonic PC
  
  Must have these in able to play
  
  :2.0 + Ghz
  :1gb RAM
  :Geforce 4 + ( must have or u 
 can't even play)
  :128 mbit + (enjoy details in the game )
  
  
  There the basics you need, after all, its worth it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmrwacko
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 7, 2005 12:53 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. Just as World of Warcraft captivated and awed me as the best massively multiplayer 
 game I ever laid hands on, Battlefield 2 has amazed me and is in my opinion the best first person 
 shooter I have ever played in my life. Battlefield 1942 was a great game, but nothing spectacular. 
 It was revolutionary to the multiplayer fps genre, and brought with it a huge mod explosion that 
 surpassed the modding community of half life. But it had its share of gameplay problems, and it 
 wasn't the prettiest game to look at. All of this has changed in Battlefield 2. The gameplay in 
 Battlefield 2 is a mix between action-packed halo 2 style and tactical combat. You will be bunny 
 hopping around enemies flaring your machine gun, but at the same time, if you rush into a base 
 with no strategy or plan you will get your butt whooped as in real life. You die in only a couple 
 of hits from bullets, yet you can parachute off a 20 foot building without a scratch. this game 
 does not sacrifice fun for realism, but it so requires the use of tactics that it almost becomes 
 a realistic game. The balance between the classes in Battlefield 2 is awesome. At one occasion 
 I may feel like being a lone wolf and sniping people, while the next round I will go in guns blazing 
 with the assault kit. No kit feels too overpowered or too weak. The sniper kit has been toned down 
 since battlefield 1942 so that snipers do not dominate the battlefield, even on the largest of 
 maps, and the anti tank class recieved a considerable upgrade with the addition of a wire-guided 
 missle launcher that can instagib light vehicles.
  
  The graphics of Battlefield 2 are superb. With a top of the line PC and all settings on high, Battlefield 
 2 looks as good as Half Life 2 with maps that are one hundred times larger. The details on each 
 individual player model, vehicle, and static object are just amazing. The ragdoll in this game 
 totally adds to the immersion factor, as does the dynamic lighting and superb animations. There 
 are some rough edges from far away, especially with anti aliasing off, but up close and from the 
 horizon alike this game is one of the best-looking first person shooters currently out.
  
  The sounds of the new Battlefield are also very good. The cracking of gunshots, the voice acting, 
 and even the loading music are all well done. Sounds seem to travel much farther in bf2 than in 
 earlier battlefield titles. The sounds of gunshots will never cease as long as you are within 500 
 yards of a frontline flag, and this isnt ambient noise either. However, the chinese voice acting 
 could be a little better and there are some sound bugs, most notable being a glitch where the support 
 gun continues to make noise when it isnt being fired. Overall though, this is a very cool game 
 to listen to from the other room with everything happening at once.
  
  This game is extremely replayable. With the addition of stat tracking, you will want to log in 
 100 or more hours in ranked servers alone to unlock all of the special weapon kits (which aren't 
 that much more powerful than the default weapons but a lot cooler) . This game tracks EVERYTHING, 
 from the amount of kills and deaths you rack up to the amount of times you revived a teammate to 
 the person you have killed the most throughout your time playing. Battlefield 2 is the mmorpg of 
 first person shooters, and it doesn't disappoint, especially with a 64 player mode that no longer 
 lags thanks to the new version 1.1 patch.
  
  This is my suggestion to whoever reads this review- BUY THIS GAME. It is the most amazing, awesome 
 thing you will play in 2005 or perhaps even ever. Battlefield 2 has jump started the next generation 
 of PC titles. Own this little piece of history :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: section-nine
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 6, 2005 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game on an expensive highend pc like the alienware alx x2 fully loaded that I play 
 on and on a t1 cable line, one would expect smooth gameplay but no..... I feel like I've been suckered. This 
 game was supposed to come out around the same time as novalpgic's joint ops another lemon imo and 
 was delayed for like a year. this game does not deliver. The servers that appear to have low pings 
 do not, the high ones do not do the opposite. You are constantly getting booted because of connection 
 problems. so did I buy this game for enjoyment or to get as aggravated as humanly possible? Because 
 I'm still waiting for the fun part. Like laggy servers and constant game interuptions? Play this.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankJaeger
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 6, 2005 5:16 am PT
Review:  In heaven. Goats will eat anything, and I believe scientists will corroborate this.
  
  This game is just amazing. Those new to Battlefield will be amazed by the size of everything, and 
 those not new to Battlefield will be amazed by the pretty colors on the screen. It's got something 
 for everyone, especially those desperately seeking to feel like a soldier and/or venting extreme 
 rage in a safe and constructive (but not really constructive. Who likes actually DOING stuff?) 
 manner. It's not a new idea, but the execution is better. So are the pretty colors.
  
  Gameplayically speaking, this is Battlefield Vietnam in the desert. Or Desert Combat Extreme Makeover 
 Edition +. Or Tribes: Someone Actually Plays This Edition. These are good descriptions for online 
 shooting games, so we're in good territory. Vehicles out the wazoo. The land vehicles and sea vehicle 
 are very easy to drive if you have a frontal lobe, although even without the frontal lobe, the 
 subjects seemed to improve over time without any recollection of the tests. Interesting. The jets 
 and helicopters are not so easy to pilot. Without practice, you will meet your fiery demise many 
 times before you quit killing yourself and the 5 idiots that decided to jump in the Blackhawk with 
 you. A joystick or joypad is highly recommended for those serious about being more efficient killers. 
 Foot combat is standard FPS fare. There is nothing left to say about the squad & command system 
 that you don't already know. Shoo.
  
  This game is pretty. It's so pretty that non-beefy computers will be in too much awe to run it 
 well. A 64 bit CPU goes a good ways here. Graphics cards should be newer than your library card. 
 Honestly people, upgrade your computers. I can't do it all, though I really DO seem quite capable. 
 A gig of RAM is a must. Go! Buy more RAM! For good! And for awesome!
  
  The best thing to go with the pretty pictures is pretty sounds, of course. These sounds are indeed 
 very pretty if gunfire, explosions and engines constitute attractiveness. Eye of the beholder and 
 all that. And now you know. 
  
  And knowing is half the battle.
  
  Like most multiplayer games, this baby's got a lot of value. It came here to have value and chew 
 bubblegum, and it's all out of bubblegum. Although the logistics of a piece of software partaking 
 in recreational consumption of confectionary is mind boggling, at least try to have your head spin 
 towards me when I talk to you. BF2 really shines when you get in a squad where they know what's 
 what, who's who, and the commander does not place artillery on your postion. The battles can really 
 get intense, and the "OK HOLY BLUE ZOMBIE  PROPHET OF YOUR CHOICE" 
 moments seem to happen far more often than other games. You will singlehandedly destroy an entire 
 invading force through luck/skill/mounted turrets 1.4 times on the first day of starting this game. 
 You will snipe the front seat occupents out of a moving buggy at 200m. You will achieve glory in 
 battle, and then wait 2 hours to get the points and ribbons for it. Battlefield 2 is a battlefield 
 game, yeah. It doesn't screw with the formula. It adds to it in such delightful ways that one must 
 play and play and starve to death in a great Battlefiled 2 orgy. Play it by all means possible. 
 
  
  On a terribly terrible tangent, goats aren't too terribly fond of pudding. Terribly sorry for any 
 false pretenses instilled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smood
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2005 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Battfield 2 is simply an all around fantastic game that breaks into the modern mutliplayer FPS 
 action genre with guns blazing and missiles blasting. From the excellent basic gameplay plus great 
 enhancements to some of the best graphics and sound to date, its hard not to be impressed with 
 this game. 
  
  Graphics: 
  ========
  The Graphics in Battlefield 2 are amazing and easily contend with some of the top graphics heavy-weights 
 of our time such as DOOM 3, Far Cry and Half Life 2. The textures in the game are extremely sharp, 
 the water is properly pixel-shaded and light in such a way that its simply a huge improvement over 
 past games in the series. The Lighting itself is also quite well done with realistic desert settings, 
 or low light dusk environments which contribute to the immersion. 
  
  Graphically the models are very impressive. The player models have significant poly's and detail 
 and the vehicles are also very realistic. But the aircraft take the cake as they look like photographs 
 at time rather then a rendered game. 
  
  The Special effects are also impressive with motion blurs caused by near shellings or blasts however 
 the one negative point is likely the missile and bomb explosions which are just not convincing 
 or spectacular enough (even when compared to real-life explosions) . This is especially noticeable 
 when comparing them to explosions from games like Half-Life 2 which are far superior. Nevertheless 
 the graphics on the whole are among the best.
  
  Sound:
  ======
  The first time you hear an F-15 roar past you overhead, you will be in awe. Emphasis is on a 5.1 
 speaker setup if possible as it will really pay off in this game. The sound effects when turned 
 to High + EAX are incredible. Guns have loud convincing sounds, machine guns are powerful (although 
 the low buzz of the fighter guns is a bit annoying and reminiscent of the BF1942 sounds) . C4 explosions 
 carry powerful bass as does impacting artillery shells. Tank shells also have a realistic "thud" 
 and the APC shells explode with fearful BOOMS as ammo sprays out of their mini-cannons. 
  
  The bullets that just miss you make excellent whizzing noises and bullets hitting different surfaces 
 from water to dirt to metal armor all sound extremely realistic. Again the only drawback in this 
 department was the weak missiles sounds, especially noted after repeated firing from any attack 
 helicopter.
  
  Gameplay
  ========
  BF2 features some excellent and innovative gameplay. Firstly the game consists of all the basic 
 arcade style warfare action of its predecessors like rolling tanks, speeding boats, and powerful 
 jets and helicopters as well as the class system where each player can choose a certain class and 
 thus obtain a certain weapon loadout and/or a special ability. 
  The game features only 1 gametype, the famous 'Conquest' while the others were removed presumably 
 because they weren't largely popular. Although conquest provides for some intense action there 
 is actually less incentive to fight for flags then there is to kill your opponents as to effectively 
 'drain' the tickets (reinforcements in a sense) of the opposing team, you must capture all the 
 flags on the map. Considering there are usually a considerable amount of flags on any map, this 
 can be a very difficult task and it is easier to simply kill the other team. The one big benefit 
 of owning flags is of course having spawn points and thus the gametype is for the most part effective 
 and fun. 
  
  However beyond this stock gameplay are several enhacements and additions that make gameplay much 
 more strategic and fun. Firstly there is the addition of 2 classes, the heavy support class which 
 is effectively the power house of the team with a tripod assisted automatic machine gun and heavy 
 armor (he is the tank of the infantry) . The heavy support not only deals great damage in close 
 to mid-range quarters, but can also re-supply ammo to teammates.
  
  The second new class is the special forces unit who is equipped with a great close to mid-range 
 rifle and C4 bombs. The C4 can stick to vehicles and are remoted triggered. The player has the 
 option of placing as few or as many C4's as he/she chooses before hitting the detonator. This makes 
 him extremely effective at taking out land vehicles. He additionally has the power of stealth in 
 that he does not show up on the radar of "Commanders" (more on this feature later) . 
  
  In addition to the 2 classes is an entire ranking system where the kills, captures and points are 
 stored and processed so as to give your character ranking and awards. This is more then just a 
 vanity feature since the rank may give you right of the "Commander" position and of course general 
 acknowledgement and respect. Additionally ranks help unlock an entire set of alternate primary 
 weapons for each class which increases the depth of the game tremendously (eg. Snipers are given 
 a heavy M82 sniper rifle capable of damaging light vehicles significantly) . 
  
  Another critical addition is the squad feature. This is a fantastic addition considering games 
 of 64 players can be quite large especially considering the map will scale to a larger size when 
 this many players are allowed to play on a server. Each squad has a squad leader who can communicate 
 with his squad via VOIP technology built-in the game itself. The leaders can also communicate with 
 the team commander. Additionally the leader serves as a spawn point so killed squad members can 
 respawn near the leader.
  
  The crown jewel of the new additions to the gameplay is the "Commander" position. Once a player 
 is elected via rank to be the Commander he gets a special commander interface. In the interface 
 he can scan the battlefield with a radar style unit which will reveal the positions of enemy forces 
 which he can then report to his squad leaders who in turn can report to thier squad mates, or he 
 can simply report to the entire team. Based on spotted enemies the commander can also issue orders 
 to commanders in much like a RTS style game except whether the squad leader chooses to follow the 
 order or not is up to him/her. The commander can also drop supplies of health/ammo where needed 
 and UAV's which will scan a radius for enemies and show these enemies on the map of the entire 
 team. Finally the commander can order a artillery shelling to completely obliterate an area which 
 adds to the strategic component of the position. 
  
  Once brilliant about this feature is that certain "powers" can be disabled if certain objects on 
 the field are destroyed by the opposite team (eg. Artillery control is lost of artillery guns in 
 the home base are destroyed by the enemy) . Again this adds further strategy to this impressive 
 gameplay dynamic.
  
  Conclusion
  =========
  In summation of the aformentioned it is lucid that BF2 is a fantastic experience for a large audience 
 of action and even strategy gamers. Amazing game, 9.3. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Arbiter
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 26, 2005 2:35 pm PT
Review:  BF2-
  Graphics:
  Well, right from the beginning you have to mention the harsh system requirements. If you want to 
 even start up the game, you are going to need an Nvidia 5700+ or an ATI Radeon 9500+/ATI 8500+. 
 But Its all worth it fortunately. However, another problem is the 5+ minute loading times which 
 drive you nuts. Not to mention some servers are laggy for no reason. But Im still not finished, 
 the server browser is also crappy. Its extremely slow and frustrating to use.
  
  Now, all that aside and you have one of the best-looking games ever made! The character models 
 are highly detailed and have nice, smooth animations. The environments are amazing as well, from 
 the incredible looking water to the grass gently being pushed by the breeze. The guns are also 
 really nice looking, and the tons of vehicles all look great. But its not all perfect, because 
 the shadows are pixilated at the edges and look really terrible sometimes. The water up close is 
 sometimes as well. But its even more amazing because these nice graphics are put on such a large 
 scale, with 64 people playing online together at once! Overall, it is amazing.
  Audio:
  What we have here, is brilliance. The Audio is certainly the most perfect thing about the game. 
 Now, all the songs they got in there are awesome. But you only here them in the menu, or during 
 the long loading times. The sound effects are also done extremely well, even on low quality they 
 sound crisp. The voice-overs are done pretty good as well, all 3 of the armies have voice overs 
 done really well, especially the MEC (Middle East Coalition) . Now a big brand new part of BF2 is 
 Voice over IP. Now, its done well, but the problem is that no one uses it. And you dont need 
 to blame them either because the radio commands are all you really need. Overall, the audio is 
 fantastic. 
  Gameplay:
  This is easily the best part about the game. Now, in Battlefield 2, you get to chose from 3 different 
 sides. Chinese, Middle East, and the USMC. Besides the guns, their pretty identical. I prefer the 
 Chinese because of the AK-47. Now BF2 is a Online Multi-player game that puts you in 2 teams of 
 up to 32 players. The objective is to capture all of the flags, which on 64 player size maps they 
 have around 10+ so it can get a little hard. But I dont think I need to waste my time, or yours 
 by explaining this stupid crap. Id like to talk about some of the improvements over the previous 
 games and new features. Now, one of my hated parts in the previous games was that you never get 
 a feel of killing anyone, but now thanks to the incredible physics you do! So infantry combat is 
 tons more fun than before. The medic now can revive teammates with the new shock paddles. The engineer 
 now can fix bridges that the special ops destroy by planting C4 on them. Which brings me to another 
 thing, the spec ops kit is awesome! Its hilarious when you put C4 on an enemy vehicle, when they 
 get it BOOM!! 
  
  Now, my favorite feature is the new squad system. It makes the game more organized and fun, especially 
 since you can spawn with your squad leader. There is also the commander mode which I never even 
 tried for the couple of days Ive been playing. Anyway, planes and helicopters are more fun than 
 ever to drive, so are the tanks buggies. Now you also have to mention that the maps scale according 
 to how many players are on. In addition, the maps, most of them are incredibly well designed. My 
 favorite would be Dragon Valley, its huge, and most importantly fun as hell to play on.
  
  There is also a new feature called battlefield recorder Now in here, the game saves your match, 
 and allows you to view it from any angle at anytime when you are finished. You can also slow things 
 down or speed them up. It is a decent feature but nothing amazing. 
  
  The Single player is completely redone in BF2. The bots are actually smart now, but they do stupid 
 things once in a while. They actually respond to your commands and its just fun to play with them 
 sometimes, but you can only play on 16 player maps which sucks. 
  Thankfully, multi-player is outstanding. Working as a team is incredibly fun and satisfying. Playing 
 with 64 players is very chaotic, so most of the time you play with 32 players. Now before, lag 
 was a HUGE issue, now not nearly as much. It does occur time to time, and Linux servers are always 
 laggy because of a code they got in them (thankfully a patch is coming) but its pretty smooth 
 online. Also, the people most of the time, people are fun to play with, and work as a team properly. 
 When you get on a good server, when you have people who work together, it just becomes completelythere 
 really isnt a word to describe the fun to be had. But anyway, there are some faults. Its very 
 easy to kill your friends with vehicles because a slight push will instantly kill them. And the 
 idiots never forgive you. Also, there are some bugs in the game, and cheating has been known to 
 occur sadly. But like I mentioned, when everything is just right, this game is unbelievably fun. 
 
  
  In previous battlefields, you never had anything topush yourself to work harder and harderyou 
 just went in a server and got out. In BF2, you have stats. You get awarded with medals, badges, 
 ribbons, higher ranks and just knowing where you stand in the world against others. BF2 encourages 
 you to work hard, and play as a team. But unfortunately, there are too few ranked servers, and 
 some are laggy. You also cannot have favorites for friends or servers, which sucks big time, but 
 its not as big of a problem as IGN makes it out to be. The stats are really helpful, and the game 
 overall is really rewarding. Overall, the gameplay and all that stat tracking, with all the new 
 features, is Outstanding. 
  Overall:
  Battlefield has its faults, but if you can get passed them, youll see that not only is this the 
 best online game ever made, but the most fun youll ever have, in any game, period. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GerryWhite
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 5, 2005 9:21 pm PT
Review:  After playing the Desert Combat mod in BF1942, I guess I got a bit spoiled. If all you want to 
 do is fly helos and be in an infantry or tank mode, BF2 is great - and I mean that. The graphics 
 are good.
  The only major drawback at this point (7-5-2005) , is that some of the weapons lack killing power 
 - even the sniper rifle, which should be able to nail someone with one shot -- but that is seldom 
 possible.
  The other problem is that the maps included really stink if you want to fly fixed-wing aircraft. 
 By the time you get up to a decent speed, it's time to turn around. What's up with that, EA?
  This game has MAJOR possibilities, but won't reach its potential until some really imaginative 
 mods are released.
  Is anyone making an El Alamein mod for BF2? That could be interesting!
  
  [DCBB] CyberSniper 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GriMGraVe
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 5, 2005 5:23 pm PT
Review:  The long waited Battlefield 2 finally hit the stores. I was really looking forward for this game. 
 Unfortunatly, it is not what I expected.
  
  Although most Bf1942 players only played online, some (like me) enjoyed the single player or playing 
 on lan with some friends + bots.
  Unfortunatly, Bf2 hasn't either multiplayer bots or its maps variety on single player, so if you 
 were expecting to play single player on 32/64p maps, you are wrong, only 16p maps can be used on 
 single player.
  
  The graphics are stunning, so is the sound quality, but to enjoy them, you need a high end pc, 
 or else just stick to medium detail. By the way, the loadings are huge.
  
  Once again I must say that the game is really worth buying if you are considering playing online. 
 If not, forget it, I really don't recommend it to single player fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adgal98
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2005 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I could finally get this awesome game for the PC which has been rated like one of the best games 
 in year for this platform. My primary gaming preference is the PC and I'm really excited by finally 
 having it in my hands to stay a long time tied to my notebook.
  
  The game is very good in all the aspects. The graphics, animations and models are so great. The 
 movement of the characters is so real and the models themselves have a lot of details that make 
 them look very good.
  In terms of playability, it's almost the same than other war games, with the movement controls 
 in the W, A, S, D keys and the couching, jumping, etc, near from this buttons. All the main movement 
 is controlled with the mouse to aim and fire.
  
  One aspect that is awesome is the sound and the effects. When a bomb or a grenade explodes near 
 of you, the screen goes blur and the classic buzz sound (the one that your 'hear' when some load 
 noise hit your ears) is brought to the scene. This makes you lose the balance and the position 
 for some seconds that in the middle of the crossfire could be lethal. The voices and the communication 
 with the other guys in the team is essential in the game. If you go online, you can chat through 
 VoIP with the other players.
  
  The main aspect I didn't like and left me little disapointed, it's that in singleplayer there's 
 no campaign mode (or I didn't find it yet) . Only single maps to battle in with some conquer mode, 
 capturing the outpost of the enemies. The game and the fun is warranted, but this lack of campaigns 
 makes you play some maps and get satisfied -not bored, fortunately- or go online and spend lots 
 of hours (that I don't have) to play with the players around the world. I expected some campaigns 
 like those in Ghost Recon or Rainbow Six. Sadly the are not here, so I think that I'll have to 
 wait until Ghost Recon 3 to satisfy my need of war in the story mode, not only in the same maps 
 again and again.
  
  The game strategy is some the best aspects because you have to choose which type of soldier you'll 
 be. You can select the modes: Attack, Medic, Specialist, Support, Antitank and Engineer, then you 
 have to listen the instructions of the commander and attack or defend the point that it's indicated 
 in the map. You have to work together with the team to win in terms of quantity attacking the enemies 
 posts. You can mount some vehicles to drive them or to use the secondary weapons and support your 
 teammates. The are jeeps, tanks and some kind of artillery on land. Over the sea there are some 
 boats and helicopters to go in the air.
  
  In general, this game is a must have in the list. Is probably the last game that will stand in 
 the PC bookshelf before the launch of the new consoles that will make the PC look archaic and obsolete 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kreynolds
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 4, 2005 4:51 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2, even including the lousy problems I write about below, is still rock solid game. 
 Over time it may get a bit tiresome if some problems aren't worked out.
  
  Bunnyhopping - It is purely nonsensical that a combat solider would jump during a firefight, he 
 would end up dead. Your weapon isn't properly held, your equilibrium is out of whack, and it tires 
 you very quickly. In the game, you can jump incessantly, even when your stamina is zero. This really 
 makes combat silly. A good idea would be to add a period of significant accuracy drop after a jump. 
 Jumping is to avoid bullets while running, or to get over obstacles, not a combat maneuver for 
 engagement.
  
  Refueling/supplying from the air - Aircraft should have to land to get supplies. This will prevent 
 the aircraft from completely unbalancing the combat. If it was a big easier to shoot down aircraft 
 from fixed positions (the only reliable way to do it) , then maybe this wouldn't be as much of a 
 problem.
  
  Anti-air assets - There should be a mobile anti-air asset that can be used from anywhere to help 
 knock down planes and copters. Yes, I know the linebacker and other vehicles have this capability, 
 but they aren't present in every map that has aircraft. The fixed assets are just that, fixed. 
 In most cases, the aircraft pound them to destroy them manned or not. Since it generally takes 
 more than one anti-air missile to knock down aircraft, often you are just a sitting duck.
  
  "Auto" repairs - It is a rather simple process for a commander to repair his UAV or Artillery 
 assets, just drop a supply drop next to them. It should be a standard requirement game wide that 
 a player should be nearby to effect repairs, and since the engineer is specifically designed for 
 this, it should have to be an engineer. I would take ANY player over NO player required, however. 
 I was afraid this would leak over from the demo, and of course, it did.
  
  Ranked servers - Ranked servers are at a premium, and a significant part of the fun, at least initially. 
 It would be nice to be able to find a server or two with a single buddy, and have a chance of playing 
 on the same server. This is a rarity today.
  
  Friend finder - There is absolutely no way for you to find a friend playing a battlefield 2 game 
 and join the server quickly. Even using Yahoo's All Seeing Eye lets you see the players (albeit 
 unreliably with battlefield 2) , but limitations of the game prevent you from joining from there. 
 More often than not the server will be full before you get a chance to play. Battlefield 2 simply 
 has the worst "gamefinder" engine I have seen in some time, and no "friend finding" capabilities 
 whatsoever.
  
  I am hoping we will see some patches addressing these problems soon, so the game can just be fun 
 100% of the time. Its still very much worth the cost even with these problems, but think if they 
 were corrected!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minion_24
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 4, 2005 2:24 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for suck along time, just like everyone else. And when i played 
 it for the first time i was blown away. The scale of the game is enormous. The amount of detail 
 is fantastic. This game really rocks when you find a squad of guys who all have headsets and really 
 want to work together. I have never had so much fun playing a videogame. If you do not have this 
 game, and your computer is good enough to run it then go out and buy it right now. You will not 
 be disappointed. 
  
  But my computer is being fixed right now so i am not able to play it. That is really making me 
 angry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigges
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 4, 2005 2:20 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 had a lot to live up to. The first battlefield brought online games to a new level, 
 giving you access to multiple weapons and vehicles, sharing an even balance that meant troops were 
 just as important as tanks and aircrafts. So where to go from there?
  
  Well, Battlefield 2 went in all the right directions. You can expect major improvements in game 
 style because the style of the previous game was already such a huge success. So they tweaked it, 
 allowing for a highly balanced game with no weapon class that can dominate the game. Although it 
 may be true that a Helicopter can be devastating in the right hands, its slow and hard to control, 
 so even the best Helicopter pilot can be taken out by an average fighter pilot.
  
  Snipers are no longer killing machines, and they really must get a clean head shot to do much damage. 
 It makes them a lot more realistic, leading them to hide in the shadows and change position after 
 a shot. Seeing as players are smart enough to sprint away after being hit, it takes an intelligent 
 sniper to be affective.
  
  Apart from these modifications, a new squad system has been introduced, which when used correctly, 
 greatly enhances game play. It is also possible to spawn on your squad leader, which encourages 
 teams to stick together and even complete tasks as a hive mind rather that lone rangers. A squad 
 is controlled by a squad leader who can issue commands to his squad directly, or take commands 
 issued to him from the commander. The communication system is excellent, allowing voice over net 
 between squads, and to the commander via a squad leader. This removes the clutter of sound you 
 would get if you could hear a team of 32 all speaking at the same time. When this squad talk system 
 is used correctly it can lead to a highly organised squad capable of setting up complex or accurate 
 attacks on enemy targets. The commander himself has a birds eye view of the action when he requires 
 it and can provide teams with supplies, artillery, UAV and Enemy positions. (Watch Black Hawk Down, 
 just the start, and then play this game. All feels pretty real at times)
  
  Ok, but nothing is perfect. It still has some glitches, such as sometimes seeing your teammates 
 as enemies and the server selection system is clumsy. Another issue is that you have no way of 
 keeping track of servers and friends, which is incredibly surprising seeing as the game does record 
 so many personal stats, which allows you to gain rank and badges (and unlock weapons) as you play 
 the game. Hopefully with future patches these issues will be fixed. 
  
  Overall however battlefield does live up to its name and is a worthy sequel. Anyone can have fun 
 while playing this game but it takes some getting used to. It would be highly advisable to practice 
 the single player mode before going online, and don't jump into a helicopter full of people only 
 to crash it into the sea. Before long you'll be immersed in the action and probably wonder what 
 life was like before Battlefield 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: optimal
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 3, 2005 10:37 am PT
Review:  BF2 is another Multi player in a box. There is a single player mode, but it's worthless. A campaign 
 sort of like the ones you find in MOH or COD would've been really nice in BF2 but there is nothing. 
 This game is best played online or over a lan. 
  
  This game is a resource hog. If you aren't running at least a gig of ram chances are you will lag 
 a lot in BF2. I have a gig of pc3200 and I plan on buying another stick of 512 later this week. 
 I have a machine that could be considered pretty damn gaming worthy. 
  
  1 gig pc3200
  6800 gt
  amd xp 3000 barton
  sound audigy 2 zs
  asus a7n8x mobo
  80 gig 7200rpm hd
  
 
  I don't run the game on high, I run it on medium to try and keep a somewhat stable fps. There 
 are certain areas of maps that are just poorly optimized. An upgrade to my ram should fix them 
 but the average pc user probably wont be running as much ram as I am. So for them their experience 
 may be a bit rough. Running on low settings is pretty boring in my opinion. You miss a lot of the 
 wow factor involved. 
  
  The point to all game developers that needs to be made is... If you're going to make a great looking 
 game, you better make it run great too. 
  
  BF2 has plenty of balancing issues. It almost makes you wonder if DICE/EA are dedicated fps players 
 or just good developers. Weapons are inaccurate, a little weak. It could be said that a skilled 
 player will get the head shot and not hit the body which is covered by armor. But given the current 
 state of the game now, even the first initial bullet out of your gun tends to be off target. This 
 leads to a lot of randomness, and random head shots is not a good thing. 
  
  Air vehicles seem to be the dominant force in BF2. AA weaponry just isn't as affective as it should 
 be. You have a better chance of shooting down a helicopter than you do a bomber. Missiles seem 
 "dumb" as they miss way more than they hit. And what's funny is that when they miss the first heat 
 source they lock on to, they tend to always hit the next which is usually a team vehicle getting 
 you in trouble. 
  
  All you people looking to dogfight, you can in BF2. But it's incredibly tedious and if it takes 
 you longer than a few minutes to shoot someone down, you aren't helping your team in the bigger 
 picture. 
  
  Sound is nothing special. It's just that.. sound. I've found even with my highend audio card and 
 a set of sennheiser hd280 pro cans you still wont hear an enemy walk up behind you. They sort of 
 just appear out of no where and kill you. This makes it hard to be competitive since you wont be 
 able to defend yourself if someone gets lucky and stumbles upon your position. This is a "what 
 you can see is what you can kill" type deal. 3d sound doesn't give you a good audio representation 
 of where the enemy is behind a wall or fence. 
  
  All in all BF2 is a good game, it's something new to play. I think if had EA hired some of the 
 better players in the BF community to test the game out and give balancing feedback, it might have 
 been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razer5660
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 2, 2005 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is the latest installment in the hit Battlefield franchise. Developed by Digital 
 Illusions, the company who brought us the Rallisport Challenge and Midtown Madness series, Battlefield 
 has always been known for its large battlefields and Dynamic sound. 
  
  Unlike the name suggests, Battlefield 2 is actually the 3rd game in the series. In this game, players 
 in groups of 16, 32 and 64 players engage in a fierce battle of wits on foot, in vehicles, on sea 
 and in the air. But in Battlefield 2, you will have the chance to use some cool modern weaponry, 
 which has a different feel compared to the WW2 weaponry of Battlefield 1942, and the Vietnamese 
 War-like Weaponry of Battlefield Vietnam.
  
  In the Single player mode, one player can engage in a sixteen-person battle with computer controlled 
 bots. For some reason, I found the bots to be quite retarded in some situations. Like in one place, 
 I was a passenger in a fighter, and in an attempt to be funny, I commanded the AI controlled computer 
 to get out. I think you can imagine the rest of the situation yourself.
  
  But the game really shines in the multiplayer mode, with 64 players battling it out to see who 
 the best of the best is. With 64 players in a game, you can just imagine how hectic some situations 
 can get. Soldiers dropping like flies and medics running around to come to there aid, Anti-tanks 
 obliterating vehicles like no tomorrow, engineers scurrying to repair damaged vehicles, snipers 
 blowing peoples heads off from rooftops and special forces rushing in to support teammates. Yes, 
 its that awesome.
  
  But with this awesome multiplayer mode, youre going to have to wait a while before the system 
 finishes verifying the client data. But if youre a patient person, like me, you wont have much 
 of a problem fighting long load times.
  
  But to have a good game, it has to look like a good game. This is one of Battlefield 2s strongest 
 points. Buildings look almost real, environnements, while mostly similar, tend to be phenomenal 
 and teammates and enemies are sometimes mistaken for real people. (I still think that MEC Medic 
 looks suspiciously like my uncle Ted...) But to witness this eye candy, you are going to have to 
 have one hell of a strong computer. If you dont have a good amount of RAM and a decent video card, 
 youre going to have to drop a lot of visual quality to have the game running smoothly.
  
  While the steep technical requirements, long load times and dumb computer AI may be a nuisance 
 for some, Everyone should at least check Battlefield 2 out. With the awesome graphics, intuitive 
 sound and superb multiplayer, Battlefield 2 is one of my favorite games of all time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fattony75
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 2, 2005 3:18 am PT
Review:  Ok, lets get the fact that this is not CS, HL2, or any FPS like them. This kind of FPS follows 
 the idea that as long as you have vehicles, the size of the map doesn't matter, and people like 
 a real life battle experience. And this is why I am dissapointed with this game, I don't play games 
 to wait for a vehicles to spawn, or to waste stamina in less than 5 feet, or to jump in a helicopter 
 only to be shot down a few seconds after takeoff. I play games to have fun, to be put in intense 
 fire-fights, and to take down a bunch of players before I meet my demise. 
  
  BUT... before you judge me, I do realize that some people enjoy realism games, and I want you to 
 know that my rating for this game in no way reflects the amount of fun, You or other people may 
 have playing it.
  
  Gameplay: Boring, and unrewarding. There are many reasons for an impatient person like me would 
 hate the gamplay this has to offer. First off, the vehicles are worthless and pose as an annoyance, 
 put three players vs. a tank, and my money is unexpectedly on the 3 players. The aircraft are hard 
 to control, and I'm sure they can be mastered with time, but in an FPS, they should dumb down the 
 skill needed to operate such a cool part of the game. The weapons are underpowered, taking more 
 than a few shots to the head, to take down a foe. The capture the point/flag gameplay gets boring 
 (and since its the only type of gameplay...) , because it ends up you running capturing, leaving, 
 turning around and capturing the flag you just captured because you lost it to the enemy right 
 after you left. 
  
  Graphics: A beutiful game if I ever saw one. This game screams with authenticity to unifors, weapons, 
 and lanscapes of the sort, it is one of the features that I enjoyed most of all about the game, 
 and makes me wonder what future games will offer. The vehicles, the houses, and distinct landmarks... 
 make it interesting to play.
  
  Sound: Also, a great part of this game. The sounds of battle, the vehicles roaring, the guns blazing 
 beside you as you defend the point, the defend blow of your ears after a bomd strikes your location... 
 all these put you into the shoes of a soldier, and make the world come to life. 
  
  Value: There's ranks to gain, weapons to unlock, different classes to master, and tons of stratagies 
 avalable to you, if you like the core gameplay of this sort of game, there is no reason why you 
 shouldn't get years of fun killing other online.
  
  As I said before, this game is great for people wanting a realife experience of battle, but for 
 those like Me, who want fast pasted action, to engage in a ( for lack of better words) "house-house" 
 action, this game is clunky and doesn't offer the gameplay you like. Add to that crashing issuses, 
 slow menus, and the longest loading times, I've ever seen a FPS have, and this game just seems 
 to fall short of its true potential. In the end though, all that matters is your own preferences, 
 and if you like this sort of game, it does the job well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donalbane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2005 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Although I am not generally a fan of squad combat games set in the present day (i. e. Delta Force, 
 Rainbow 6) , Battlefield 2 is far and away the best online shooter I have ever played, and I've 
 played a lot of them. Aside from it's crappy server browser, Battlefield 2 innovates in ways that 
 will change the way online FPS players cooperate forever.
  
  Pros:
  
  Graphics - Wow... what an improvement over previous battlefield games! The shadows, lighting, particle 
 effects, water, and physics all come together in a package that is unrivaled in the online fps 
 genre. Character and vehicle models are superbly detailed and convincing, as are their animations. 
 The one exception is when you kill a guy on an anti-aircraft battery... he'll just hang around 
 in his normal position until he vanishes, which leads to a little wasted ammo. Overall, though, 
 it's fantastic looking. 
  
  Communication - Voice communication is a feature that was really lacking in the other Battlefield 
 titles, and I am so happy there is microphone support this time around. What's more, the voice 
 communication is structured such that it is more effective than previous games that allowed microphone 
 usage because it operates on a milataristic heirarchy system. Basically, Commanders only speak 
 to squad leaders. Squad leaders take their orders and typically tell their squad what to do. Squad 
 members only talk to other squad members. This system really works (when people actually chose 
 to use it) and creates an experience that feels like you are part of a real milatary force with 
 different levels of command. Furthermore, it eliminates the problem of having 32 guys all talking 
 at once. Elegent, effective, and hopefully the new model for future online shooters. Unfortunately, 
 few people use this cool new addition to the Battlefield, and it can take an hour or so to get 
 a squad of guys that actually take advantage of the voice channels. Donalbane's Tip of the Day: 
 Form a Custom Squad called "Mics Only" or "Mic Squad". 
  
  Command System - The commander role is new to Battlefield 2, and it really works well. Someone 
 elects to play the game in a very different manner when they chose to play as the commander... 
 an experience which plays out similarly to a RTS. Furthermore, the radial communications menus 
 used by everyone in the game, (for those of you without mics) , works much much better than the 
 old Ff1-F9 system used in previous battlefield titles. It is effective, fast, and context sensitive. 
 (Fire example There are now 2 channels... one for talking to guys in your squad, and one for talking 
 to your superior commanding officer. This works perfectly, and it seems that more people actually 
 listen to the requests this time around. Squad leaders can bring up their map and assign waypoints 
 that focus the squad's efforts. When you lead a squad of 6 guys using mics, it rivals any online 
 shooter experience I have ever had... it feels like your a real team. But a team within a larger 
 team. 
  
  Class System - The classes are so much more balanced this time around, giving each class a unique 
 flavor that allows for any type of player or situation to be covered. One notable improvement that 
 really stands out from previous iterations is the Medic. This class is now not only a viable part 
 of the team, but it's almost essential. Those players who don't care for killing can actually help 
 defend their team's tickets, adding a whole new dimension to gameplay.
  
  Cons: 
  
  The Server Browser - Oh my God... this server browser sucks! I can't believe EA would dedicate 
 so much time to polishing the teamplay and graphics and whatnot, and totally neglect this critical 
 element of the game. There are no friends lists, and no favorite servers. In this day and age, 
 these things are not "features", but rather "standards" that are sorely missed here. These omissions 
 are particularly frustrating because the game is inherently communicative, and over the course 
 of playing you will naturally meet a lot of people you would like to meet up with again. Well, 
 this won't be happening unless you download other programs like all seeing eye or x-fire. Star 
 Wars Battlefront had the same problems. I hope they completely redo this annoying aspect of the 
 game, although that seems unlikely. 
  
  Random Net-Code errors - Occasionally the game will kick you out for teamkills when you have harmed 
 nobody. Also, you can get randomly kicked for reasons associated with Punkbuster that make absolutely 
 no sense. Also, the ranked servers seem to not update your stats in a reliable fashion, which is 
 obnoxious when a player is trying to unlock the cool new guns that come with promotion. Finally, 
 the game's autobalance feature will send players to the other team without warning... even if they 
 are squad leaders or commanders. 
  
  Resource Hog - Thankfully, I rebuilt my PC to play HL2 and Doom3, so I'm pretty set. However, the 
 graphics do slow down on occasion, and I've heard that the game looks much less impressive when 
 played with the settings down. The gameplay is unaffected, though, which is the most important 
 thing ultimately. Also, the game takes FOREVER to load, regardless of your system. If you change 
 any graphics settings, in addition to having to restart the game, you can expect the next map you 
 load to take 2 or 3 minutes. It's not too bad, since you usually only do this every hour or two, 
 but the load times are rather long. Also, the bandwidth requirements are really high, so expect 
 most servers to have terrible pings.
  
  Conclusion - If you have any interest in online shooters, BUY THIS GAME. It is a joy to play, even 
 if everyone ignores the command structure. EA is going to patch the browser next week, I just found 
 out. I would recommend it to people who don't even like shooters, since there are many ways to 
 cooperate with team mates beyohnd killing enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erickboy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 1, 2005 6:57 am PT
Review:  --Ok so my Nvidia 5600 graphics card is a little outdated, it didnt even make the "supported graphics 
 card" list on the readme, but I can play it. 
  --First of all, this is obviously the best in the series, I dont know where are they going to go 
 now, because it is set in modern times. Although i read that it was going to be near future or 
 something with near-future technology and vehicles but the content is all from the present, (i 
 base this solely on my movie-viewer experience) .
  --All the animations are great, and the special effects are awesome, from the bursts of fire coming 
 out of your weapon to blowing up a tank with c4. (i can only imagine what it looks like in a SLi 
 enabled top-of-the-line machine)
  --BEWARE if you dont like loading screens you are going to be a little frustrated, yes they are 
 long, and yes there are plenty, but the game is just worth the while. Also finding a good server 
 is pretty tedious, the browser is slow and finding a game takes patience also..
  --You cant customize any aspect of single player gameplay, except difficulty level, which gives 
 the bots some more life expectancy, but even on expert they are no match for a multiplayer opponent.
 
  --All around its a great game, great maps, and they come in 3 different sizes, i wasnt a fan of 
 previous battlefields, but this game changed my mind, (also when i bought it they gave me free 
 shipping, free headset and 15% off at EA store) , so that helped too. 
  --If you dont have a headset or microphone buy it now, seriously.... doooo IT!!! all in all is 
 a pretty doooo IT!!!!!, it has great gamepl doooo IT!!!!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petaboy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2005 4:59 am PT
Review:  I must say the Battlefield series has brought us nothing less than the best in online type military 
 gameplay, and this one is no exception. Welcome to the world of Battlefield 2 where F. P. S action 
 mixed in with some vehicular gameplay, oh and throw in some squad play for good measure. I must say 
 EA and dice really has put some time on battlefield2.
  
  The graphics far surpass that of BF1942. And its the little things that count which you probablly 
 wouldnt notice beacuse your busy getting shot at. Things like birds flying in fear beacuse of the 
 blast from a tank. or the swayng of palm branches. THe graphics has its glitches, but none the less 
 is beautiful considering what they achieved being that this is indeed a very big game. I feel the 
 sound is is close to perfect and achieves its goal in making you feel like you are in a war zone. bullets 
 whizzing past your ears, or standing to close to a tank and then getting all disoriented from the 
 blast.
  
  Gameplay.. What can I say, they have not strayed from the BF formula. if any I would say they added 
 some minor changes which really help. being able to duck while being a gunner in a tank or what 
 have you really helps. all in all it feels the same as all the BF series... SIMPLY WONDERFUL...
 
  
  On a personal note... Its wonderful that they added the squad type gameplay to BF2. The commander 
 can give out orders to a squad leader who in turns relays the orders to squad members. The commanders 
 also are able to notify a squad leader of what lies ahead for a squad and what needs to be done. commanders 
 also can call down artillery strikes send ammo and etc to your position....
  
  the only minor gripe I got is lag... but that is another story right. and no L. A. N
  
  Battlefield 
 2 is a very polished game and has a very high replay value....
  
  I hope this review was helpful to you ,Oh I apoligize for all the messed up spelling...
  
  
 Aloha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rabid_Possum
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 1, 2005 2:53 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for BF2 to come out for a very long time, so when it finally arrived i got 
 it immediately. The demo was awesome, with great internet play and just plain fun, even with only 
 one map. I must have played the demo alone for over 10 hours. But the retail version was not good. 
 It had some major issues, some small (like having the auto-join game when it's done loading not 
 work) , and some very big (like not being able to join servers on the internet) . After many frusturating 
 hours of trying to get this game to perform the way it should i finally succeeded, and it's a blast.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8
  
  The in-game gameplay is perfect. You could not improve on it in any way. The teams are balanced, 
 the maps are balanced, the controls are awesome, and the communication to your team and squad members 
 is revolutionary (the comma rose is one of the most useful and simple to use communication things 
 ever) . I mean, how cool is it that you can tell your squad to attack a base, then request artillery 
 from your battlefield commander to bombard the enemy base with artillery and then sweep in with 
 your squad and capture the control point all without typing a single word? The out of game gameplay, 
 however, just sucks. The "play now" button is bugged (you have to wait 5 minutes just for it to 
 say "no servers available" and you can't cancel it) , so you have to manually find servers you want 
 to play on. Then there's the matter of joining games that say that they have 13/32 people but when 
 you want to join the "server is full". About half the servers have a ping of 0 for some reason. 
 And those are non-ranked servers. Don't get me started on the ranked servers. After 10 minutes 
 of loading, all you get is either being booted back to the server-selecting screen with a "network 
 data corruption error". After hours of searching for good servers, i finally found a ranked server 
 called the Internode Gaming Network QLD that works perfectly. Good loading times (about 5 minutes) , 
 great people and best of all, YOU CAN PLAY THE GAME! That's right, no errors, just log on and have 
 fun. It's the best. There is some lag at the very beginning of EVERY game you will play after just 
 loading the map, so be prepared (it usually takes 15 to 30 seconds to go away completely) . 
  
  GRAPHICS: 10
  
  Beautiful. Absolutely beautiful. The textures look real, flocks of birds 
 take off when you get too close to them, trees sway in the breeze... the tanks look real... the guns 
 look real... of course, if you have a fairly old video card, forget about playing this game, because 
 it has an extremely low tolerance for outdated video cards. I have a Radeon 9700 and all of my 
 settings have to be on medium or low in order to play without serious loading times and lag. Oh, 
 and the water is AMAZING. 
  
  SOUND: 9
  
  Good sound, great gun sounds and voice commands, and with the VOIP, you can actually talk to people 
 with a headset. The only problems are that almost no one right now uses the headsets and talk with 
 each other, since almost everything you need to say is in the comma rose, and also there's like 
 2 different kinds of loading music which you will begin to loathe after the first 10 games. Overall, 
 great sound.
  
  VALUE: 10
  
  Infinite amounts of internet play and single player games, and with each game being totally different 
 from the last, you will never get bored. The whole gaining rank thing, earning new medals and unlocking 
 new guns definitely adds a TON of value to the game (I mean, who doesn't want 7 new AWESOME looking 
 guns that are more powerful versions of the originals?) This is the game i will be playing all 
 summer and even after that.
  
  TILT: 10
  
  Despite some serious issues with the internet play, some bugs and problems, and long loading times, 
 BF2 is an AWESOME and XTREME game that you should definitely buy if you have the right computer 
 for it. And if you don't have the computer for it, upgrade your old one so you can play this game. 
 Yeah, it's that good. There's a loading sequence at the beginning of the game that shows multiple 
 squads of enemies charging a US base and being gunned down, then an enemy helicopeter flying over 
 and taking out the US soldiers slaughtering the enemies, then an airplane taking down the helicopter 
 and another plane. The sequence is totally awesome, and the scary thing is that all of that is 
 really possible in that game (I've done it multiple times already, and each time i feel like it 
 was the coolest thing ever!) . I love this game, and in my opinion might get GoTY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormmaster
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 30, 2005 6:29 pm PT
Review:  You dont know the meaning of "nearly perfect game" until you play this. let me just say this, ive 
 never played a perfect game, and I dont think I ever will. you probably know the main game mechanincs 
 of the BF series, so Im not gonna take the time to explain. The first thing you'll notice when 
 you pop this sucker in, is the amazing graphics, even on low it looks great! Some servers in this 
 game stink, and if you like a server, good luck finding it again without X-fire. Few features of 
 this game stink, the only ones the do are, the server browser, and if you dont have a very up to 
 date machine, the load times. with my 6600 GT the load time go by in less than a minute. so what 
 else is they're to say? For those who want to know, this game is completly balanced, not like the 
 other BF games.
  so in conclussion, this is probably the most fun game you'll play all year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakeEx3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 30, 2005 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Keep in mind the following review is for the retail version of Battlefield 2, though the game may 
 be patched later, this is a review of the first version.
  
  Battlefield 2 is the highly anticipated sequel to Battlefield 1942. Battlefield 2 expands on 1942's 
 huge environments and gameplay. Battlefield 2 is basically a war game that spans on a battlefield, 
 like the name implies. This is essentially a game without a story or plot, though there is a brief 
 "description" of why the battle started. You can play as the United States Marines, China's army, 
 and the fictional MEC (Middle East Coalition) , which is probably derived from a combo of insurgents 
 and Middle East armies. Battlefield 2 takes place in various places in the Middle East and China, 
 and probably a few other locations. Each map has 3 sizes, 16 player, 32 player, and 64 player, 
 though you're not restricted to that number. Standard games follow that pattern, but you can even 
 go to 100 player servers. 
  
  Gameplay
  There is only one basic kind of gameplay mode in Battlefield 2, and that is assault. Although there 
 is single assault and double assault, they're very similar. There are control points on the map, 
 and you fight to capture them. If you capture them you can spawn units there. If you capture many 
 control points, as well as killing the enemy, you lower "tickets" of the enemy, which is almost 
 like a point system. Whoever has the least or reaches to zero in the time limit loses. Double assault 
 is the same but if you control all points you automatically win. You can choose from different 
 soldier classes, and for each army they're about the same (But some of the weapons behave differently, 
 the US's M24 is stronger than the M24 but is not automatic like the SVD is) . Special forces carry 
 a carbine, pistol, knife, grenades, and C4 explosives that can be used to sabotage the enemy's 
 resources and such. Assault soldiers carry the knife and the pistol, like anyone else, a rifle, 
 a grenade launcher, and a smoke grenade. Support soldiers carry a machinegun, additional ammo, 
 and grenades. Medics carry a rifle, grenades, health packs, and defribilator kit. Engineers carry 
 a shotgun, mines, and a wrench to repair stuff. Snipers carry a sniper rifle, claymore, and I think 
 grenades. Antitank units carry an SMG and an antitank device. The commander in the game can use 
 an unmanned aircraft to scout, as well as radar, artillery, and supply drops. Teamwork is very 
 important. Vehicles are abundant, from jeeps, buggies, tanks, APCs, jets, helicopters, and boats. 
 They're usually not too strong, although antitank kits are a little underpowered even against tanks. 
 Driving the aircraft takes a lot of practice but it can pay off. The gameplay is pretty fun but 
 involves teamwork, so if your team sucks you're screwed. There is quite a lot of strategy involved, 
 so this isn't a game that you can pick up and play for like 15 mins, it's not fast paced like Counterstrike, 
 and the loading times will take a while. 
  
  Graphics
  Graphics are not as good as some other games like Half Life 2, even though the system requirements 
 are higher. This is due to the environments and all the different textures. You'll need a high 
 end PC to run at the highest settings, but even at medium settings the game looks great. The only 
 problems are glitches. The physics engine in this game isn't that good but is still pretty ok.
 
  
  Sound
  Sound is good. Sound effects are varied and are pretty good, especially if your sound is turned 
 up you can feel like you're on a battlefield. Some of the voices can be repetitive though especially 
 on the American side. The soldiers can be Caucasian or African American or other races, but they 
 all typically sound like Caucasians, so I think the sound could change in that way. Music is limited, 
 mainly because this depicts a modern war, there is no iconic music like in Battlefield Vietnam.
 
  
  Value
  The game's single player will last a while, but not as long as multiplayer. The experience is different 
 almost every time and there is a ranking system that will keep you busy. If you get up to Lance 
 Corporal you can unlock new weapons as well.
  
  Other issues
  Ok, here we go. The game's server browser is horrible. Gamespy arcade sucks. The server filters 
 do not work most of the time, and the game will disconnect you for no apparent reason. There are 
 lots of glitches. Some of the guns behave VERY unrealistically, for example even on the first shots 
 a machinegun may spurt out a shot 15 degrees away from the crosshair. The cone of fire should be 
 lessened especially for the support troops. Also, like I said, if you have a crappy team, or worse, 
 a crappy commander, you're screwed. You can vote people off but it's very unreliable. I think the 
 game would benefit from a Steam-like system, but EA is using that ol' EA account thing. Ranked 
 servers are a pain, usually they are laggy and full, and when the server filters don't work this 
 can be a major pain in the ass. I've spent 10 minutes looking for a good ranked server before. 
 Sometimes it feels like the game's damage system is glitchy. 
  
  All in all, Battlefield 2 is a great game. It lacks polish though and needs a big patch to fix 
 it all up. When everything works out, BF2 is a superb game, but that is more rare than it should 
 be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloader_feni
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 30, 2005 6:01 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is finaly here and it is set in a future war torn universe where USA, Kina och middle 
 eastern coalition are fighting. When you start your match you must shoose on of these but doing 
 that will not change the game that dramasticly, since there are only a flew differences between 
 them like, a bit different weapons and vheicles.
  
  Evry map in the game can be played as 16,32 and 64 player map, with 16 players the map is scaled 
 to fit just for 16 players, that is good since the original big issue was to find someone to kill 
 on the big maps it offered. 64 player versions are the way to go, big assaullts, airplanefights 
 and much more.
  
  New addition to the game is the commandermode, in this mode you see the entire map and from here 
 you can help your teamates to win a match, you can drop supplies to your friends so they can get 
 healed and rapaired, you can also call in altillery to take you heavy defended enemy positions. 
 If you play with a good commander guy, half of your battle is allready won.
  
  Dice is known for ther ship issues and BF2 is no ecception. You need a gamespy account to play 
 online and register can be a pain, when you have managed to create a account the next problem comes 
 in, you must set up the controls and you must unbild them and that will take you time. If you change 
 your comuuter and are on a internet cafe, you of coure want to login with your own account to get 
 your earlier setup but you will anyway need to set up the controles once again. Sure, this will 
 be fixed but that is something Dice could have done before the game was realeased.
  
  Another problem is that you can not add your favorite server that you like to play on and instead 
 you must look for it, this is bad since this game is a team based shooter and if you dont find 
 the right people to play with, the game can get boring.
  
  All in all, Battlefield 2 is a worthy siquel to the best selling Bf1942. If you can bypass the 
 issues Battlefield 2 offers then you have a great game to look forward to
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 30, 2005 3:23 am PT
Review:  Well I won't go into the game mechanics as most people already now or they should read the gamespot 
 review.
  I only want to give a short comment why this game isn't fun.
  
  First, yes everything is well done in Battlefield except one major big time important thing and 
 thats the technical side from Battlefield.
  
  While Battlefield 1942 was the first game in the series the unplayable Version 1.0 was annoying 
 but because of the fact it was the first one from dice people just waited what the game will become.
 
  
  Then BFV came out and it was also a disaster but now developed from dice canada.
  Again the Version 1.0 was barely playable and even with high end machines the game wouldn't run 
 completely fluidly.
  
  And now we have Battlefield 2 and what can I say, the same thing happened again.
  Bugs over bugs 
 over bugs and very bad performance.
  
  You will lag horrible on ranked servers, you can't customize your controls without editing your 
 con file, stats are missing on servers, graphics not even look good while demanding a insane amount 
 of hardware power etc. etc.
  
  Or in other words, this game is broken.
  
  Again you only can wait for future patches and then might give it a try.
  As it is now you probably 
 better of with the demo and a hacked server then with the full version of Battlefield.
  
  All the hype, the alleged work with the community, all this previews and stuff seem pointlessly 
 when you see the final product.
  
  And the biggest shame is that people will buy it despite of that because they read reviews with 
 90% scores played on high end machines with the right NVIDIA hardware on special customized servers 
 from EA.
  
  It's a pity.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jshipley01eb
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 30, 2005 2:37 am PT
Review:  Okay, so BF2 is actually a fun game once you get to play it. But if you want to play it, first 
 you're going to have to make sure you meet the minimum requirements. No, I mean it. If it says 
 it supports certain video cards, it means it. and ONLY those cards. It's rather frustrating. I 
 had to actually go out and buy a new card just to play BF2. That's dedication.
  
  Here's the breakdown:
  
  BF2 is an online shooter with limited single player value. You really 
 wanna get this if you like online fun, otherwise skip it. The single player game does not have 
 enough lasting value and playing against people is more fun.
  
  The interface sucks. Most hardcore shooter fans may not have too many problems with it, but frankly, 
 I hate how game companies assume that everyone wants to use W A S D to move. I like to use my number 
 pad and, guess what, The 8, 4, 6 and 2 can't be mapped. Thanks EA! I've gotten used to using the 
 W A S D menthod, but I don't like it. I think my game would be 100% better if I could map the keys 
 the way I wanted to and have been playing for years.
  
  The game also crashes during the menus at least once every 5 times I try to play the game. It just 
 locks up and I have to reset my system. Again, the remap system sucks as well. You can't remap 
 a key that is already mapped. You have to go find that key and erase it before you can set it to 
 something else. You also can't change your video setting once you start playing the map.
  
  Vehicles are cool, but the helicopter is almost impossible to control. I pretty much crash every 
 time I try to fly one of them. Jet fighters aren't much better. Land vehicles are easy, however, 
 and are actually pretty fun to ride around in.
  
  The map variety is great. Some of the maps are really cool. One takes place from the deck of a 
 aircraft carrier! As the USMC, you have to fly a jet, copter or ride a boat to the main land and 
 try to take out attack points there. Way cool.
  
  There also different classes and kits you can take. I dig the Spec Ops class the most, so far. 
 Sniper would be better if you could one shot kill someone. I had a bead on this one dude who totally 
 didn't know I was there. BANG! I got em right in the head ... and he still walked away. I had to 
 hit him twice. That kind of sucked. Sniper is seen more as a support role here. However, I think 
 that the essence of the Sniper (one shot, one kill) has been lost here.
  
  All in all, once you actually get into the game, it's pretty neat. It can be hard, sometimes, to 
 get yourself to spawn in the right place, but it's a good time, none the less. More realistic than 
 UT2k4, not quite as solid as CS: Source. 
  
  Oh, one last thing. Something I do like? You sort of level up in this game as you play. I think 
 that's a neat idea. As you play and get better you can win medals and unlock new items and weapons. 
 I think that's a sweet idea. OH! And the commander and squad leader thing is also pretty cool. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melchior_us
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 30, 2005 12:11 am PT
Review:  I haven't played any of the previous Battlefield games,
  but I picked this up since the demo caught my eye. The
  game is just pure and simple great. The 
 actions is
  intense, the teamwork you will experience is wonderful.
  I have experienced some glitches in the game, but those
  are merely part of a natural program. 
 Once they start
  hasing out patches, it will be a perfect game.
  
  Other reviewers say this game is bad because they can't
  get it to run. You must remember, a 
 PC is not like a
  console, you have to upgrade sometimes, it's part of
  life. You will need a graphics card newer then 2 years,
  and a connection faster then DSL. Has 
 anyone ever
  thought of looking at the system requirements? If you
  can't get this game to run with your system
  requirements, it's a user's error, not EA's and 
 whoever
  programmed the game. If it's lagging for you, turn down
  the video quality or sound quality, it's just that
  simple.
  
  This game is nearly perfect, 
 and once they release a
  patch, it will be perfect. Don't be affraid of people
  who can't get it to run, they just don't understand the
  difference between a PC and a console 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaBestEver
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2005 7:47 pm PT
Review:  The moment that all FPS fans have been waiting for is here. Battlefield 2 is a great modern day 
 combat FPS game, that pits the U. S. Marine Corps. against the Chinese Militis or the Middle East 
 Militia. There are 7 different classes to be in the game, which offers plenty of variety. Also, 
 for the GURU in us all, the more you play and the better you do, you can unlock more weapon kits 
 for the classes and earn medals. Unlike Counter-Strike: Source (which is still a good game) , this 
 game requires strategy, teamwork and communication. Where as CSS requires good aiming and hiding 
 behind simple objects. My only "complaint" about this game is that it requires a great computer 
 to be enjoyed fully. At the moment I am playing this with a P4 3.0 GHZ, ATI X700 Pro Card, and 
 with 1.5 GIG RAM, and even i at times tend to lag just a tad, but nothing that is unbearable. Do 
 yourself a favor and go buy this game. Even if you arent the biggest FPS fan out there, it will 
 turn you into one, TRUST ME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HuskaBear
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2005 8:01 am PT
Review:  As I start out on a carrier outside the coast of China, I load up my G36c Special Operations Carbine. 
 I hop in a UH-60 Blackhawk helo prepped for takeoff, as we take a slow takeoff it frantically turns 
 into a race inland, flying feet above the water as I hang out the side door looking at all the 
 vehicles charge towards the enemy emplacements. Our pilot quickly finds himself being painted by 
 a Chinese MiG, pops flares and a quick slide to the right as the missile goes soaring past us. 
 As suddenly as thats over, we find ourselves being shot at by an FAV machine gunner, the soldier 
 sitting next to me is shot out the helo falling to his inevitable death, I frantically shoot off 
 rounds at the jeep hoping to get some sort of defense reaction from the driver but its no use, 
 were forced to set down at the nearest enemy base. 
  
  As the blackhawk comes to a quick abrupt halt landing in the courtyard, we all bail and scatter 
 like roaches with the lights turned on, as soon as the helo takes off hes taken out by an entrenched 
 stinger missile, sending shrapnel raining down over our heads. My teammates take over defensive 
 positions and sit and wait for the storm. As soon as we neutralize the point, a convoy of 2 tanks 
 & a APC come in to ruin our parade. One man makes a brave run for the TOW missle but is mowed down 
 by gunfire. I make and exit and manage to place 2 C4 on the tank and blow it right before I bite 
 the dust. After the flawed capture attempt, the commander sends in some artillery to show our new 
 house guests our appreciation.
  
  This is just one of the awe inspiring moments to be had in this epic game. For FPS addicts, this 
 a the holy grail upon which our standards will now be raised. So much to tell, so little room. 
 First off, this is an amazing game, with its positives & negatives, positives first. There are 
 6 evenly balanced classes, with 6 eventually unlockable weapons, this most people know so I wont 
 get into it, but something new with BF2 is the ranking system. Not only are your stats tracked, 
 but you gain awards, medals, & ranks. Eventually leading to new weapons. In total there are 12 
 maps that can be played in small skirmish style to MASSIVE all out war style. The in-game menu 
 is user friendly, except for a few minor flaws.
  
  The new things that stand out the most though, are the squad level combat, & the commander mode. 
 Each team can form up to 9 squads, each allowing 6 people, with voice this is one of the coolest 
 game features ever. When you find a good squad, & start using unit cohesion, its truly spine tingling. 
 The commander mode is also unbelievably easy to use, and gives the RTS (Real Time Strategy) player 
 in all of us a piece of candy. The higher your rank, the more seniority you have to get the commander 
 slot. You can talk to your squad leaders via VOIP with a mic, & vise-versa, therefor allowing awsome 
 teamwork. You can call in artillary strikes, drop supplies for teammates, use UAV's (Unmaned Aerial 
 Vehicles) to spot enemys on the radar, and use a satellite scan to see what the enemys movements 
 are. This has been tried before in games, but has NEVER been this successful. Honestly I dont know 
 how I can describe truly how good the FPS action is in this game, it has its flaws, but it is by 
 far one of the best out there.
  
  Also what can I say about the vehicle combat? BF1942 defined vehicle combat in games, and now DICE 
 has done it again with BF2. There are many vehicles to choose from as you fight in your virtual 
 warzone, so dont worry about getting around. As you find yourself playing over and over again, 
 you'll want to unlock a certain badge. Or get to a certain rank. Unlock a certain weapon, which 
 isnt all that easy given you have to earn rank to unlock new ones. There are MANY badges, ribbons, 
 & medals to be awarded, so you wont find yourself running out anytime soon.
  
  Now, on to the negatives, BUT while reading this, keep in mind this does not diminish the quality 
 of the game to the point where its bad. I have a top of the line computer, Nvidea Geforce 6800 
 GT, Intel Pentium 4, Windows XP, 223.58 GB Hard Drive, 1023 MB Memory, and I still have to turn 
 my settings down a bit to run properly. I still have troubles running this game at times, but all 
 these Im about to mention I can almost promise will be patched soon enough. I have crashed 6 times 
 (almost non-stop play since release) , I get sound glitches, sometimes the ranking doesnt load properly, 
 the famous red name tag bug (friendlys showing up with red name tags) , squad member problems. It 
 has bugs yes, but they are fixable and I would bet my lifes savings they will be patched.
  
  If I had to say 6 words about this game, I would say "Do NOT pass this game up!". It is by 
 far one of the most heavy hitters this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirkmy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2005 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is just a amazing game! It is fun from the first second you start playing to the 
 last second before you quit. It has many almost movie like moments in just 10 minutes if gameplay. 
 It has fabulous graphics, the developers really went all out, everything looks really realistic. 
 It isnt hard at all to just get lost in the game for hours at a time. If you want to see what battlefield 
 2 is all about without having to buy the game, download the demo free from gamespot. There is absolutly 
 no way that you can not like this game. I highley recomend this game to anyone. And if you do buy 
 it play online with the headset. Cause if you do that it just gets better, you can communicate 
 with you squad and constinatly talk to one anouther, without the backround noise of other teams 
 and squads. It really seems realistic. Summing it all up, you just have to buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2005 5:44 pm PT
Review:  
  ... without mercy. I have gotten a chance to play many team based multiplayer games since the original 
 Quake. For many newcomers, Battlefield 2 (B2) is completely new and fresh. However, before Battlefield 
 2, many games of this type existed. Some of these games include Tribes: Vengeance, Republic Commando, 
 SOCOM II, Counterstrike, Call of Duty, Unreal Tournament, Halo 2, etc. Some of these games utilize 
 vehicles much like Battlefield 2. Based on my previous experiences, Battlefield 2 does not seem 
 like a totally original game but when playing the game, the experience is different from the many 
 multiplayer games I've played in the past. In other multiplayer games, you have a capture the flag, 
 team deathmatch, etc. In the games I mentioned, most of the differences are usually between the 
 types of weapons, maps, vehicles, etc that the game has provided. Some of the games either have 
 really unique weapons (Unreal Tournament) , innovative use of vehicles (Halo 2) , or a unique purchasing 
 mechanic (CounterStrike) . However, these past games cannot hold a candle to Battlefield 2's major 
 emphasis - strategic planning. In previous multiplayer FPS games, sharpshooting and familiarity 
 with the map wins 95% of the time. In Battlefield 2, those two elements are now just half of the 
 equation. Battlefield 2 makes extreme use of squads and rewards teams for not just racking up kills 
 but coordinating them. B2 provides that feeling for doing something purposeful. The beauty in B2 
 lies not in its realistic weapons and maps but its mechanic for managing squads and carrying out 
 surgical strikes. B2 also gives you actual chained objectives (i. e. destroy communications tower) 
 that would probably make sense in the real world. In other games where frag numbers reigns supreme, 
 B2 rewards those who maximize their roles. The gameplay experience is so hard to convey in this 
 review that it must be played to fully realize the game's fun factor. In other games, being in 
 a team boiled down to "find super weapon", "protect base", "kill someone", repeat. In previous 
 games, the death of a teammate is mostly inconsequential. Not Battlefield 2. When your medic dies 
 in B2, the rest of the team will find itself struggling through intense fighting areas. When your 
 sniper dies, areas where heavy artillery dominate are harder to penetrate.
  
  B2 also has a position open for commanders - one of the most underrated and exciting features that 
 puts B2 in a whole new league of multiplayer gaming. As a commander, you can coordinate strikes 
 by literally chatting with squad leaders. Squad leaders then enforce this chain of command by communicating 
 the rest of the commander's suggestions to the squadmates thanks to B2's excellent voice-chat feature. 
 As a commander, you get to have a top-down perspective of the battles on the map. From here, you 
 can catch some of the best drama (or comedy) from this view especially when voice chatting is on. 
 Playing commander does have some really funny moments. As a commander, you can drop supply crates 
 for your teammates... or as a distraction for a sniper attack or a air strike! It's even more satisfying 
 when you have a team half the size of your enemy and coordinating these strikes. It makes for a 
 great and satisfying experience. Part of this experience must be credited by its balanced classes/kits 
 (Medic, Sniper, Engineer, etc.) . The vehicle system in B2 also makes other games that use vehicles 
 look gimmicky in nature. In other games such as Halo and Halo 2, the vehicle is more of a handicap 
 than a advantage. In B2, teams must coordinate to take down tanks and helicopters. Players can't 
 just simply pick up any gun and fire away. With Battlefield TV (which records the events of the 
 game) , you'll understand better on handling these vehicles as a threat or as a tool.
  
  Aside from these great points, B2 does have a few faults. Driving a tank or jeep seems unrealistic 
 with its "instantaneous transporting" to driver mode. Buildings survive massive air strikes and 
 vehicle explosions are pretty weak. Seeing jeeps and other vehicles topple over with the players 
 inside would be very satisfying to see. Battlefield 2 still has problems with video but hopefully 
 those will be fixed as players continue to log onto servers and retrieve the latest updates. It 
 would also be nice to see more than 12 maps so hopefully the mod community will come up with something 
 or an expansion pack should fix all this.
  
  If you haven't played any combat/FPS oriented multiplayer game and wanted to start one, this is 
 it. If you have played many combat/FPS oriented multiplayer games and have waited for something 
 original, this is it.
  
  radcastro. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Affect656
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 28, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Ok so the hype for this game was just pure insane. Everyone thought this game would be great and 
 perfect, but it wasn't the server browser and ranked servers were bad and laggy. If you plan on 
 buying this game for pure multi-player. Wait. You should wait till a patch is released fixing these 
 problems which may take a while. I myself loved single player even though many didn't. The game 
 is very demanding on your computer and if you don't have a semi-new computer then this game most 
 likely won't do well on your pc. This game shows what FPS can be it just falls short in the multiplayer 
 and the how much it demands on your pc. Don't let my review make you not want to buy the game, 
 the game is great and a must have. Once the bugs are all worked out this game will be even better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akira2506
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 28, 2005 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Some people would like to tell you that Battlefield 2 is a buggy, evil game published by the demonic 
 EA that for some reason have a goal to make bad games and employ people to join servers and team 
 kill... Then there some people that will rumour that even on their "r0x0r" PC with their "0wnz0rz" 
 connection they get a stuttery laggy game. Apparently "some people" are playing a different game 
 to me.
  
  Choosing a server and squad to join is an aquired skill in Battlefield 2, and something that you 
 should learn in order to fully enjoy BF2. Think of the whole experience as cooking. Now... everyone 
 knows to make a good meal, you need good ingredients. If you simply rush to the store and pick 
 up the first mango you see, it's probably not gonna be at it's prime... and you'll ruin your meal. 
 However, if you give em all a lil' squeeze, a smell, a shake... look around for that really perfect 
 sweet, ripe mango... then your meal will be much, much better. Then again... any meal envolving 
 a mango probably isnt the most satisfying in the world... but there we go... and back to the review.
 
  
  Graphics in battlefield 2 are simply amazing. Although it is less-forgiving on the older generations 
 of cards, it is still a very scaleable game. On lowest settings, even the minimum spec machine 
 can enjoy the game with more-than-adequate FPS. However, on highest the graphics become simply 
 stunning. Well worth buying that 7800GTX that you were thinking about.
  
  Gameplay in battlefield 2 again, is simply amazing. If you dont have broadband internet... and you 
 want an offline game... dont buy this game. That out of the way; BF2 online is simply what online 
 gaming is supposed to be. It's engaging, immersive and fresh. With such a vast combination of weapons, 
 vehicles, landscape, team-mates, enemies and your own ambition, the number of different situations 
 you find yourself in simply blows your mind. Something that certainly kept counter-strike's popularity 
 was he fact that every round felt different. Now, given that BF2's maps are probably 50x larger, 
 the fact that theres more weapons and vehicles... and I simply cannot imagine how long it would 
 take for me to get bored of Battlefield2.
  
  Another thing that makes this game great is "Woah" moments. Moments that you play out, and as events 
 unfold, you lean closer and closer to your monitor, squeeze your mouse tighter and shout at your 
 character to regain it's sprint-meter a little bit quicker. My favourite BF2 moment to date was 
 taking out a bunker on the Gulf of Omar map. An MG bunker was overlooking a large sandy-plain from 
 which my team was trying to push an infantry attack. My team were being mowed down repeatedly, 
 with medics running from cover to revive... only to be blown up again. I then started a gung-ho 
 charge at the bunker while instructing my squad-mates to distract the gunner using my headset. 
 I got to about 40 meters away when I saw my last "distracting" squad member die... knowing that 
 the gunners attention would soon focus on myself, I whipped out a grenade, threw a single grenade 
 towards the apparently tiny opening in the bunker, and then jumped on the floor just-out-of shot 
 of the MG... behind a tiny sand dune. It was at this point I first noticed BF2's amazing sound... with 
 bullet whistling and sand being kicked up around me, and the sound of the hell-reigning machine 
 gun... 4 seconds later, a large boom then silence. A quick glance at the top left of the screen 
 showed I had takken out two enemies. The rest of my team advanced on the control point, and succesfuly 
 capture it.
  
  
  Moments like this make BF2 what it is, any BF2 player could tell you their favourite moment... 
 but it doesnt come close to experiencing it yourself.
  
  So, march down to your local store with money in hand, and purchase BF2 today. Okay... it's an 
 EA-game... but don't let your 1337 predjudice deny you such an epic online experience.
  
  A great game... in fact... I have a few hours free... see you in-game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antiman90
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 28, 2005 12:29 pm PT
Review:  EA's been popping out some suckers recently. From Goldeneye to Batman Begins, it seemed as though 
 EA was starting to slip. This is completely untrue in the case of Battlefield 2. And the thing 
 that makes Battlefield 2 great isn't an in-depth story mode, it's the franticly awesome multiplayer 
 with tanks, airplanes, choppers, and ATVs and squads that makes BF2 a must have for online shooter 
 fans.
  
  The graphics in this game are really pretty, but you'll also need a really good graphics card to 
 get the best out of this game. I'm using an ATI Radeon 9800 Pro and Im having to lower my settings 
 down to medium and in some cases low to make sure the frame rate doesnt start chugging and that 
 the heads of the soldiers stay with their bodies.
  
  The sound in the game is another strong point as you'll frequently hear people yelling commands 
 and "Enemy spotted!" If this annoys you, play on a server that doesnt have VoIP enabled, and you 
 wont hear quite so much.
  
  The story in BF2 is that you are the US and you are at war with China and the fictional "Middle 
 Eastern Coalition. The thing I was somewhat disappointed by in BF2 was that there wasn't a story 
 mode. Instead, single player lets you practice against the computer on the same maps found in multiplayer 
 to try to hone your skills before trying to take it to real people. The map sizes range from 16 
 to 64 players and when all 64 are there, this game can be a blast to play. The fact that there 
 is no real story mode can be forgiven because of the incredible multiplayer that is found here.
 
  
  With every PC game there are annoying technical problems and this game is no exception. The most 
 notable one is that the game tends to lock up on you for the first few times you try to use the 
 menus and sign up for your multiplayer account. The only way to counteract this is close every 
 other program running from your task manager. Another problem is that the Load times can be really 
 annoying. They can take a few minutes, and if you change a setting they take even longer because 
 they need to incorporate your new settings into the game. Overall, this game needs a patch BADLY. 
 And EA is hard at work, in fact when I called their tech support number they said "Please excuse 
 the wait, but we are experiencing unusual wait times due to the release of Battlefield 2."
  
  UPDATE: The reason I tilted the game down was really because of the patches. They have corrected 
 mostly minor technical problems with the game and everytime you install a patch or re-install the 
 game, you get the same frustration as when you first put the game in. I haven't installed a single 
 patch without the computer locking up the first time I tried to play the game. After that, the 
 game is slow for a few more loads, then it goes back to it's regular slowness and just plain bugginess. 
 I still have to recommend this only because it's a good game when everything's working. If you 
 dont crash or lock up when you sign into your online account, chances are youll be okay. If you 
 do crash or lock-up, the only real cure is turnin the computer off (or in my case yanking the power 
 cord from the back because the power button doesnt work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CmdrMcNeil
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 28, 2005 6:19 am PT
Review:  To put it bluntly the game has it's good side and it's bad side. The good side is the game itself... 
 the bad side is some of the players. However I'm not going to allow smacktards to completely ruin 
 my experience. It's as if I sad I hated Counter-Strike becuase of the 12 year olds that plague 
 some of the servers. I can't blame the developers becuase some player who can't fly a helo decided 
 to hop in anyway only to promptly crater it. Still this has nothing to do with the actual game 
 itself, therefore it did not affect my scoring. The game is everything I wanted it to be, fun, 
 fast, and addictive. This is electronic crack my friends, you start playing and you then start 
 thinking "One More Round". It's like Civ III in it's addictive power. Anyway, here's the breakup 
 of the score:
  
  Gameplay: The game does very well here, the vehicles were worked out just right in terms of handling 
 and balance. The rock-paper-scissors mentality is alive and well here and it adds a nice balance 
 to everything. I do have to agree with many though that the Sniper rifle (for all sides) and the 
 SMAW/Eryx have been nerfed pretty well. The rifle is horrendous. They got rid of scope drift granted, 
 but to balance it out made a .338 Magnum or 7.62mm Soviet round have the punch of a feather. You 
 can unload an entire sniper clip at a target and hit it once for negligible damage. The AT rockets 
 are similar in that I've watched it take nearly five hits even from the stern to finally bring 
 down a Type 98 or M1A2 Abrams. Still I'm sure an issues will be worked out as DICE has proven time 
 and again with the other games. I like the weapons, all well thought out and balanced aside from 
 the aforementioned ones.
  
  Graphics: Great, they bring the Battledield series up to speed graphically as all the previous 
 ones have. It looks great though there are framerate issues at times for some inexplicable reason 
 as I have stuttering issues from time to time on a 3.00 GHz, 2 gig RAM, x800 GPU system.
  
  Sound: All weapons sound as they should, the EAX system really brings the battlefield to life, 
 one of the best maps acoustically speaking is the "Strike At Karkand" map. In this urban hell the 
 echoing crakc of rifle fire down a street which you can barely see down due to the thick fog/sand 
 storm is surreal. Speaking of fog, that reminds me of the "Songhua Stalemate" map. THere sound 
 really takes over as you can barely see 10 yards in front of you due to the fog. All the weapons 
 sound good especially the .50 Cals on the FAV/FAAV/HMMWV/etc. Listening to it on my 5.1 system 
 with the bass on really made me feel the power of that weapon. The sound is perfect in my book.
 
  
  Value: I'm socring a 9 for two reasons. One of which is that I feel like I'm getting a great deal 
 for the price, the game IS worth it. The other reason is that for BF1942 and BFV great mods were 
 made, just increasing both the game's replay value and overall value. I can't wait for the new 
 mods to hit this version of Battlefield.
  
  Tilt: It's addicting, it's all I really can say, the above reasons should speak for themselves.
 
  
  Overall: It's a great game, I love it and will continue to spend many sleepless nights fighting 
 in the streets of Karkand or in the valleys of China. I have some weapon and grahics issues... 
 not to mention lag. EA has yet to realease a lag free game or a Battlefield that needs you to open 
 specific ports to allow you to run lag free (which is impossible to begin with, but I digress) . 
 The stats are a nice touch as are the unlockable weapons, even though they take about a day or 
 two toregister the previous night's accomplishments. The command structure is a welcome suprise 
 and really seems to circumvent the smacktards out there. I have a lot of fun running with and organized 
 squad and finding one in the ranked servers isn't that hard. Even if you lone wolf it you can have 
 fun, which is the whole point of gaming.... right?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echo13791
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 28, 2005 4:33 am PT
Review:  If you were a fan of the old Battlefield games (Battlefield 1942, and Battlefield Vietnam) , you 
 will absolutely love this game. Even if you weren't a fan of the old games, EA improved Battlefield 
 2 so much that you might just love it. All the changes in this game are improvements. First of 
 all, the squads; this is the biggest and best add on feature to the game. If you join a functional 
 squad and work together as a team (talk, each person gets a different kit, re-supply your squad 
 with health and ammo) , then you will love being in a squad. You can also respawn where ever your 
 squad leader is, no matter where he is on the map (as long as he is alive) . You can also talk to 
 your fellow squad members and your squad leader if you have a mike (if you are the squad leader 
 you can also talk to the Commander) . The Commander can only talk to the squad leaders of his or 
 her team, and he can do a lot of things, such as: call artillery strikes (they are like air strikes) , 
 he can drop a supply crate via sky (they can heal you, give you ammo, repair vehicles, etc) , and 
 he can call in RADAR transmitters (these can tell you where the enemy is in a given area) . There 
 are also all new weapons and really sweet new vehicles. Another great improvement is that when 
 you have a certain kit (lets say a anti-tank kit (rocket launcher) ) , you will have something else 
 than a pistol to defend you self from people with, you will also have a machine gun. I mean that 
 no matter what weapon you pick you will always be able to defend yourself without really needing 
 a lot of help (you will always have a main weapon, and then a support one) . They have also made 
 a huge improvement in the physics of the game, if you shoot someone with a shotgun, they will go 
 from what ever angle you shot them from. The maps are huge just like in the old games. The only 
 things that I think are really frustrating about this game is when you die by an artillery strike 
 or getting blown up by a random mine, because it happens out of no where, but it adds a cool realism 
 to the game. Overall, you should definitely buy this game.
  
  -Echo13791 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Absu
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 27, 2005 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I will start by saying what a great game this is.... when it works. DICE/EA should really be ashamed 
 at the current state of BF2. Patching is an expected fix to unforseen and or known issues post 
 release. I have come to expect patches and I am shocked that there isn't one out yet for BF2 because 
 it needs one... bad. I have a very current machine and drivers and this release version won't even 
 let me get to the server browser half the time. The lag involved when playing on a ranked server 
 is a test of patience even with a 2 mbps connection. I'm sure in time the issues will be resolved. 
 I just hope it's sooner than later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rummyville
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2005 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is fun but it defiantly has its moments of many annoyances. I expected a well balanced 
 game instead what I received was a flawed and frustrating multiplayer. The players are ridiculous 
 when it comes to sitting on a spawn site and killing you as soon as you respawn. I just waited 
 15 seconds just to wait 15 more; the game should spawn you in a covered area every time not every 
 so often. 
  
  Another problem is the size of the maps and how spread out it all is; some times it takes me 5 
 minuets just to get a shot off at somebody because there isnt always a vehicle around, or if you 
 are in a server with more than 40 it becomes a glitchy slaughter house. To me it seems like the 
 only way to get a lot of medals and kills it to pilot an air craft, I found it difficult to get 
 a lot of points by being infantry because of how vulnerable you are by yourself. 
  
  That brings up another problem; squads are great if you can find some people who are willing to 
 work together. I found a few problems with squads, first some squad leaders just dont keep the 
 squad working together, and instead theyre going off doing their own thing. Second; when you do 
 find a squad that works together its hard not to get kicked because they dont know you. I guess 
 you have to be some kind of cool guy or have played with them before. 
  
  Another problem that bugs me is CHEATING I dont know for a fact if you can cheat but I think 
 it is possible for some player to hack into the game. The reason I say this is on more that one 
 occasion I have seriously unloaded a whole clip into a guys head at point blank range not killing 
 him but instead getting killed myself by one shot. At first I thought these were just glitches 
 until a teammate and I unloaded a full clip a piece into one guy and I reloaded and put another 
 full clip into him only find my teammate and I getting killed by a single shot from that guy. There 
 is defiantly some kind of cheating going on. 
  
  My conclusion is that Battlefield 2 can be fun but there are a lot of players that ruin it by doing 
 stupid things like camping out of spawn points and being way to cool to be able to play on their 
 squad making the game very frustrating. Oh yea I almost forgot and not dying when they obviously 
 should.
  
  At lest the graphics are good but to have them take full effect you have to have a decent graphics 
 card and about 768 to a gig of ram. The sound quality of the game is nothing short of amazing. 
 Even though the game has its multiplayer problems it does have its long term playing value.
  
  I had to come back and add to my review because first impressions can be deceiving. I write 
 this add with about 100 hours of additional game play. The game play still has a lot of the faults 
 that I stated in the past but if you find good people to play the game with online it can be a 
 very rewarding and addicting experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cortot20
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2005 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I love the open ended style of these games, at any given moment I could be defending a base from 
 a chopper attack, going head to head with a tank or sniping from some corner of the map. or even 
 commanding all of my squads to coordinate an assualt on an enemy base. But wait my team is losing 
 because half of my teammates wont join squads and some of the squads refuse orders completely. 
 Whats the point of the commander if he can't be used effectively by stupid squad leaders teammates. 
 When a team keeps losing over and over again. It is almost always because the other team is better 
 organized. The graphics are amazing and so are the weapons and animations. The game also runs very 
 smoothly on most systems. If forced squad participation was an option I would only play servers 
 with it turned on. A well organized team will cut a bunch of lone wolfs to pieces. So the bottom 
 line is that I love the game but the other players suck, and can ruin the whole experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 27, 2005 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Usually when I write a review of a game I try and focus on its positive aspects but this game has 
 been so hyped in recent months (Already described as game of the year) I feel that I must expose 
 a number of flaws in this title which sadly let it down quite substantially, in my opinion. Indeed, 
 if this is the game of the year, then 2005 is due for some pretty poor releases, after the excellent 
 gaming year of 2004 (Half life 2 , Unreal Tournament 2004, Far Cry, Doom 3) . This game is buggy, 
 glitchy, & ill thought out. It took Valve years to make a near perfect game in Half Life 2, and 
 now I know why.
  
  The bulk of the action takes place on the multiplayer side, so obviously a good connection will 
 be required. Indeed this game requires good everything if you want it to run properly as it is 
 very demanding on hardware indeed (and I dont think its worth the expense of an upgrade if needed) .
 
  
  You play on one of three sides, USA, China or Middle East, in a game in a similar format to Joint 
 Operations. I must confess however that I have not played any of the previous Battlefield 2 titles.
 
  
  After spawning into a map you select your side and class of soldier (sniper, assault, anti tank 
 etc) . You will have a commander who will direct you & your squad to the next objective. You must 
 fight your way to the enemys flags with a view to standing near the flag to convert it to your 
 own flag, although it is not a Capture the Flag style game but more like King of the Hill. 
 
  
  The game has a rather confusingly entitled ticket system, where both sides start with the same 
 number of tickets and the idea is to reduce the opposing forces ticket quota to zero by way of 
 flag captures.
  
  There is a wealth of vehicles to get around in  buggies, tanks, APCs, helicopters (which are great 
 fun) and jet fighters. Vehicles are essential as the maps are huge and without transport you will 
 be running around for ages (up to 5 minutes) to get to your contact which can lead to a lot of 
 boredom in game.
  
  The Graphics are good, & demanding (presumably because of the size of the maps) with impressive 
 draw distances only previously seen in the likes of Far Cry. I run a Geforce 6600GT with an Athlon 
 64 3200 processor & a Gig of DDR 400 Ram, but my machine can only play this game on medium settings 
 at a res of 1024 x 768. Any higher there are glitches & artefacts, so to play this game as it was 
 intended, on full settings, a pretty powerful rig will be needed.
  
  The game goes for realism on a large scale and fairly much achieves its aim. You really do feel 
 like you are on a battlefield. It is pretty enough , with planes and helicopters whizzing by and 
 realistic explosions. In fact it can be quite scary when artillery shells fall near by or a fighter 
 jet drops its payload. The sound is one of the better aspects of the game.
  
  
  
  So whats wrong with it ?
  - Plenty unfortunately so I will break it down into categories :-
 
  
  Controls
  
  There are a lot of controls to get a grip of which could have been made much simpler. If like me 
 you wish to choose your own key bindings, the setup menu is a nightmare as when you try and change 
 the pre set binding, a message will appear telling you the key is already bound, so you have to 
 go through all the other menus for land and air vehicles etc and unbind them first. It actually 
 took me a good hour to rebind all the keys I wanted.
  
  In game, flying aircraft is impossible without a joystick (Its like an in game flight sim) and 
 this could have been developed for key board use.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  The load times take an age  often up to 5 minutes to get into a game  time enough to make a cup 
 of tea. Further by the time you have got into the game, one side has won, the game is finished 
 and you have to go through the whole process again.
  
  Also the multiplayer server menu is often slow to update and difficult to scroll down.
  
  What 
 is surprising is that there is no buddy list particularly given that this is designed to be a team 
 based shooter. As a result you cannot see when your friends are playing, clan games are likely 
 to be affected and if you play a game with a squad you get on well with, you cannot add the players 
 to your favourites.
  
  There arent many maps available, so after only a few days of game play, they become familiar and 
 boring. Whether or not this will be addressed by way of game updates or an expansion pack I do 
 not know. Also there is only one game type of Assault. Really EA could have done much more in this 
 area to keep our interest, if not only putting in the now standard game types of Death Match & 
 Capture The Flag. Hopefully the modding community will come to the rescue, but unfortunately again, 
 the developer has let us down by failing to release SDK from the outset.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Notwithstanding the above re long load times, spawn killers is another bug bear ! Often as soon 
 as you spawn you are killed. Most servers have a fifteen second respawn time which leads to more 
 thumb twiddling.
  
  If you are used to hot paced fast action such as experienced in UT 2004 or Counter strike the this 
 game is probably not for you. The maps are huge and if there are no vehicles available for use 
 after spawning then you have to make your journey on foot to the next enemy flag. This often means 
 walking (you can only run short distances before becoming out of breath) for up to 5 minutes which 
 is quite simply boring. Then as soon as you get near a flag you might get killed, 15 second spawn 
 wait time, respawn at your original position, get spawn killed, more 15 second spawn wait time, 
 then off on foot again  YAWN. Sometimes with this title you feel like you are in Groundhog Day. 
 It is immensely frustrating.
  
  Despite the yearning for true life battle conditions one of the major failings of this game is 
 the fact that buildings are indestructible. Somehow this detracts from the games sense of do anything 
 anywhere, when a massive airstrike comes down and all the bricks and mortar remain in place.
  
  There is also frequent interruption, pauses & glitches
  
  Sound
  
  This game goes for 
 realism and with sound being one of its strongest points, there is a lot of foreign radio chatter 
 when playing as Middle East or China. I liked this feature a lot at first, but after a while it 
 becomes annoying. It would have been much better if this aspect had been done Command & Conquer 
 Generals style with the speech in English but with a foreign accent so at least the player would 
 be able to understand what is being said.
  
  CHEATS !!!!
  
  Theres a lot of it going on at the minute and I hate it. Often it is like you are firing blanks 
 at the enemy. You can offload a magazine into someones head at close range and the buggers dont 
 die  just turn round and kill you with one shot. It is also as if people know where you are despite 
 having been incredibly stealthy in sneaking up to a position. There are also wall hacks. 
  
  
  
  In summary, Battlefield 2 is worth a play. Sucked in by the hype and pre release reviews 
 I really wanted to love this game, but unfortunately I cant. Its hard to see whats new here 
 as a lot of it has already been done before in other games, its just that this title does most 
 of it better. However the developer has concentrated too much on the bells and whistles, neglecting 
 the basics such as gameplay, ease of use and even simple things like omitting the buddy list. 
 
  
  The game is technically demanding and pushes the kind of system most people have to the limits. 
 It gives us a glimpse into the near future of online FPS gaming, but for now until the major niggles 
 are sorted out (and I expect a number of big patches to come) I would leave it alone. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsv152184
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2005 12:04 am PT
Review:  BF2 is not only the best in the series but it is one of the best FPS ever.
  
  Let's get one thing clear, BF2 is an online game. It was emant to be played online and it was meant 
 to be played with people online and not just your friends. I am tired of seeing people complaining 
 that the offline/single player lacks. If you want to play offline then you just got the wrong game 
 because on that aspect alone it isn't worth it. 
  
  Now if you play the game how it was meant to be played then you will have one of the most awesome 
 gaming experiences ever, especially when you get to play on a server where everybody is playing 
 right! BF2 could have made single player better and does have some bugs but is clearly one of the 
 best if not the best game so far this year.
  
  Wether you are into online FPS or nor, you have to try this game because it delivers in almost 
 every way, and it gives exactly what it was meant to.
  
  it is a superb game and if they get to fix the few bugs and server issues it will be perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BONDQ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2005 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 (BF2) is the successor to Battlefield 1942 and Battlefield Vietnam.
  It features an updated timeframe with up-to-date weapons and more current enemy elements than the 
 previous BF titles.
  
  The graphics engine has been significantly improved bringing it more to today's standards. These 
 graphic improvements are welcome but also limit the game, since BF2 seems to not be coded very 
 efficiently and this causes your graphic card, regardless of how new, to scream "mercy". It really 
 is very difficult to fine tune the game to maintain a playable framerate that balances quality 
 with speed. Do not be surprised if you long for a PC upgrade after playing a round or two of this 
 game. 
  
  Squad-based tactics and cooperative play are improved by use of a more convenient Squad organization 
 and quick "Q" command chat system. BF2 even supports VOIP, but the voice quality and consistency 
 is questionable since each person playing will undoubtedly have a different microphone and different 
 mic. Sensitivity settings. This makes some of your team sound too loud and others too soft to understand. 
 Moreover VOIP is only effective if everyone actually uses it and responds to orders, etc. Also, 
 the in-games sounds seem to degrade radically when using VOIP. Finally, VOIP is limited in that 
 calling out spotted enemy units via voice does not indicate an icon on the on the map as does the 
 "Q" chat system, limiting its effectiveness while in battle.
  
  Aside for the VOIP system, overall sound quality of in-game sounds including calls from your team, 
 sounds of weapons, vehicles, and aircraft are all excellent and it is evident that great care was 
 taken to maintain quality and accuracy here.
  
  BF2 shines mostly because its gameplay is so good. There are numerous "kits" or professions to 
 choose from. Everything from Assault, Engineer, Medic, Support, Anti-Tank, Special Forces, etc. 
 These various options provide a wealth of gameplay options and variety which is lacking in many 
 games now. 
  
  There are many occasions when playing BF2 that will simply amaze the player in their combat accuracy 
 and realism. 
  
  Vehicles return, also to great improvement. Up-to-date aircraft including jet planes, helicopters 
 as well as APCs, Tanks, and Jeeps.
  Anti-aircraft missile launchers stations and guns are spread through-out most maps again to provide 
 gameplay variety.
  
  
  Another global gameplay option is to become your team's Commander. This is a single person job 
 dedicated to leading the troops into battle. While this mode is a nice departure from the main 
 game, it lacks depth due to artillery being your only effective weapon besides your team itself. 
 Moreover, this mode limits the combat effectiveness of the commander and threatens their safety 
 while in-game enemies kill the player while the Commander is viewing the battle map. This mode 
 should be improved to allow the commander to remove his person from actual battle, such as a "spectator 
 mode". It should not be possible for the opposing team to kill the commander.
  
  Overall BF2 is a great game because it serves up great gameplay, variety, and quality. Unfortunately, 
 this comes with several negatives that will leave you wishing that EA spent several more months 
 improving the game:
  
  Server Browser-The server browser, arguably one of the most important elements of an online game, 
 is horribly slow, does not filter properly, and causes the game to crash or lock up without reason.
 
  The sort tabs functions are not clear and they seem to only occasionally work. Also, you are required 
 to pay for a Gamespy subscription if you wish to use Gamespy Arcade in lieu of the low quality 
 internal browser. This demands improvement!
  
  Graphics Engine-The graphics engine is a pig. While it is pretty it is far too demanding on today's 
 graphic cards. Even those purchasing a new NVIDIA 7800 will find they must turn down certain graphics 
 settings to make the game run smoothly.
  
  Maps-While BF2 ships with about 10 maps, this just isn't enough to keep you busy that for more 
 than a week or two. An online game of this popularity should ship with 25+ maps, with several more 
 on the way for free via an update. Map quality and variety will make BF2 last longer.
  
  Manual/Documentation-The game ships with a limited manual that does not describe the browser filters, 
 several Commander command buttons, vehicle control sensitivity settings or vehicle weapon use. 
 This leaves you with a "trial-an-error" approach to learning what these features do, which detracts 
 from having fun with the game.
  
  Controls-Setting up your profile as well as sensitivity settings for each vehicle type (especially 
 for aircraft) becomes especially difficult and frustrating. Most players will crash their airplanes 
 and helicopters numerous times, simple because they can't easily find the correct settings to control 
 them well.
  
  Ranked Play-BF2 features a "stats" element named BFHQ. Here you gain medals and weapon unlocks 
 by achieving unspecified combat goals while playing on a ranked server. The problem here is that 
 there are too few Ranked servers and since you can only receive these upgrades when playing on 
 these specific servers, it is difficult for the player to utilize this otherwise welcome feature.
 
  
  Summary- While BF2 has a few negatives that hopefully EA will patch and improve; its gameplay is 
 excellent and simply fun to play. A patch improving the game code (making it more efficient and 
 less buggy) , improving graphics rendering, and adding help for several settings are much needed. 
 A free update with additional maps would also be welcome.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeedleSurfer
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  I won't repeat the praise of others, by now you know the game is great and generally well done. 
 It is far from a 9 though but I believe the fights are so great all other aspect of the games are 
 forgotten in reviews and notes. I intend to point them out here so you get a more realistic view 
 of the game.
  
  Great graphic, awesome engine, very nice physics, a challenging game that make you feel great for 
 overcoming said challenges. Awfull, truly awfull menus and mechanics, slow to death when loading, 
 very taxing for no apparent reason (the menus) and so on, it actually make lauching the game an 
 hesitation, I'm just not sure I wanna deal with that crap before actually enjoying myself. Yep 
 I said it, I enjoy myself a lot with this game but the menus truly are crap to a point where I 
 have to think twice before launching the game. Quitting the game too is a pain, it takes longer 
 than shutting down windows and sound goes in a loop that will play even when you are back to your 
 desktop for at least a minute (P4 3.4GHz, ATI X800XT, 1GB RAM, 10000rpm drive... its not my machine) . 
 The escape key bring you to the menus or get you out of it, so if you bring the map and press escape 
 to close it it will just go in the menu and take several seconds to do so, in the meantime you 
 believe the key wasn't taken so you press it again and then it continues to load the menu, jam 
 on a sound loop and after nearly a minute you are sent back to the map, the second press of the 
 escape key exite dthe menu befor eit was even brought up. The mechanisms of the game I repeat it 
 cause it will affect you, are simply disgusting, trash code to its best.
  
  The players are indeed a pain to work with, team killing is rampant, spawn killing is the norm 
 and vehicules hoggers abound. Since the dawn of shooters mechanisms should be in place to auto 
 kick repetitive team killers and spawn killers, these players are the biggest players, they know 
 all spawn points and all dirty tricks, they evangelise the game so no company is actually willing 
 to even try to solve the problem, they actually like those players, of course they will tell you 
 opposite but believe me, if they wanted them out, they would be. And the auto kick shouldn't be 
 an option, standard auto kicker. You kill a teamate life goes on, within 1 min. you kill another, 
 warning, within the next minute you kill another, out, baned for a day of the entire servers. They 
 can implement complex physic engines and not deal with such simple programming... I don't think 
 so. In other shooters this can be overlooked as you gain experience but battlefield is made in 
 such a way that you'll never learn because of those bad players, they rule the game and it helps 
 them. The general attitude is the worst I have ever seen in any game, I have a feeling the game 
 itself contribute to that. You will be insulted and repetitively team killed if you took a copter 
 when someone else wanted it for example, even if its the first time you actually get in a vehicule 
 on that server.
  
  Single player is simply put, stupid, no copters or planes, so no way to practice off servers to 
 at least get a chance to learn without the bad players annoying you. You actually need to connect 
 to a single player server (local) and disconnect from it before changing server, the game is so 
 badly programmed that it can't disconnect you automaticaly and reconnect you to the new server 
 you selected, that is single player or multiplayer btw.
  
  If you read the other reviews and mine you should have a very good idea of what the game has to 
 offer, they told you whats great I told you whats bad and sometimes its needed.
  
  Learning time is set to 4 hours or more because of the time it takes to learn how to drive the 
 various vehicules correctly but it actually take not even an hour before you get in the game and 
 have lots of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewisty
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 26, 2005 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Simply put... it is a good game but only online...
  
  WHAT HAPPENED WITH OFFLINE MODE?!
  Its been messed with badly! 
  I must be just about the only person who cant play online much 
 because of a slower connection...
  But, why is it that people that cant have that fast internet connection are stuck with a crumby 
 16 bots in single player?
  Not only that, we're stuck with the small maps!
  Irritating? You bet! 
  BF1942 and Vietnam allowed up to 64 in offline modes as well as online
 
  It made the battles seem like you were in a war!
  Yet... heres Battlefield2
  Wandering around hoping, praying you might see something move
  What happened EA?
  Was this 
 just a way of getting those that dont play online to stay?
  "oh it runs in single player mode with just as much effort and fun!" PUHLEASE
  Would it have 
 been too much to have either included this option or to at least warn us about single player having 
 much much much less depth?!
  
  Dammit... another title i so looked forward to, only to be dissappointing ;_; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanetanos
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2005 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is one of those games that everyone has been waiting for, hoping that it will deliver 
 on all of its promised features. For the most part, it does! 
  
  Battlefield 2 doesn't differ drastically from Battlefield 1942 and really... who would want it 
 to? The part of BF2 that distinguishes it from BF1942 are the details and some added features that 
 don't fundamentally change gameplay, but serve to tune it up. Some of these features include but 
 are not limited to:
  - Commander Mode: The ability for one of your team mates to do surveillance, drop artillery strikes, 
 drop supplies, and order you and your other squadmates around is quite a welcome addition to BF2. 
 It adds a level of teamwork that otherwise wouldn't exist. Just be sure to join a squad when playing 
 this game to get the full effect.
  - Built in VOIP: The built in VOIP isn't utilized right now, but certainly will come to be more 
 common as people pick up their headsets to stay in touch with their squads. For the times when 
 I had a squad with VOIP, it was a blast.
  - New Kits and Weapons: The kits have been refined in the new Battlefield, adding into the fray 
 Support and Special Ops. Support features a heavy machine gun, and the ability to resupply friendly 
 troops with ammo. While Special Ops features a light machine gun and the ability to use C4. 
  - Modern Combat: The addition of modern weapons, helicopters, planes, boats, jeeps, apcs, and of 
 course tanks in a modern setting is a refreshing change of pace.
  
  All of the new features come together to form a truely wonderful gaming expierence that is sure 
 to please any FPS fan that can meet the minimum system requirements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingBobCat
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 26, 2005 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I am new to the Battlefield games in general. Played my share of FPS before, beat Half Life 1 & 
 2, the Dooms, etc., but never really played on-line much. My experiences with Unreal Tournament 
 convinced me I was seriously outmatched for that! :) I was playing an UnRT Old West Mod and some 
 dude dressed as a bear killed me a zillion times, just using a knife! :) I'm pretty bad! :p
  
  Anyway, although it has many VERY experienced players from BF 1942 that you have to compete 
 against, this game is an absolute BLAST (no pun intended) ! I still get killed more than I kill, 
 but am getting better. :) The variety of vehicles, ways to play, medals you can earn, upgrades 
 you can unlock, is fantastic! I HIGHLY recommend this game ... even if you are a bit of a newbie, 
 like me. :)
  
  One downside, I have headphones with a mic and haven't played on many EA "ranked" servers (the 
 only servers that you can earn the cool stuff I mentioned above) that offer the voice recognition. 
 And unfortunately, the first time I played, I had no idea what I was doing and got chewed out by 
 a 14 year-old ... I won't even repeat what he said. Let's put it this way, if he would've been 
 sitting next to me in real life, I'd be picking his teeth out of my fist. So, be prepared for that 
 kind of stuff.
  
  Buy this game, good luck, and see you on the Battlefield! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyro
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2005 3:38 pm PT
Review:  The game starts; you quickly run up to a helicopter and load up with a couple of your squad members. 
 You take off and head in the direction of your enemies base. Within seconds you have rockets locked 
 on to you, you order everyone to bail out and they do so. As your parachuting down to the enemy 
 encampment you guide your way around the back of the base and meet up with the rest of your squad. 
 You tell your commander to place an artillery strike on just ahead of your position to make your 
 enemies start panicking. Your squad quick runs in after the barrage and takes some vehicles and 
 drive off to the enemys main base. Upon arrival you jump into a hectic firefight with your opponents, 
 your squad kills most of them but you have been severely wounded. You call over your squads medic 
 to revive you and your back up to 100%. Not only this, but your whole group has been rearmed with 
 ammunition thanks to your support guy. You order a head on into the base and quickly capture that 
 base. You notice your enemys airfield has two jets waiting for you. You take the bomber while 
 another squad member takes the other. The rest of your squad gets into a Helicopter and you all 
 take off and start raining hell from the sky.
  
  This is the story everywhere on the map; your whole Chinese team has just derailed any last hope 
 of victory for the USMC. From playing as a foot soldier, tank driver, medic, commander, to airman, 
 you really can't say that one is better then the other. Victory is what is best and when your team 
 is ready and willing to work together there is no way to stop it. This game is crazy and hectic, 
 but never boring. There will never be an emotionless fight in the game. The excitement will suck 
 you in for hours a day and you will most likely lose track of time, so watch the clock if you need 
 to go somewhere or do something.
  
  Battlefield 2 is the wave of the future, and an instant classic like its predecessor Battlefield 
 1942 and I recommend it for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoda101280
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2005 1:56 am PT
Review:  All I can say for BF2 is that it is a very engrossing title. The graphics are very well done, sound 
 is great, though it could use some music and the action is non-stop. If you're wondering if your 
 rig can run BF2, I run a 2.8 gig intel P4, radeon 9800 pro 256mb, 1 gig of corsair, and a sounblaster 
 audigy card. I run mixed settings of medium and high and it runs great and looks awesome. I probably 
 could turn everything up but I don't care much about detailed lighting and stuff in an FPS game. 
 I turned up all the texture and shadows to high though as I like detailed avatars and shadows, 
 etc.
  
  The best part about this game that sets it apart from other FPS games is it's focus on teamwork. 
 Squading in this game is very important, it's perfectly possible to play and have fun as a lone 
 wolf but to be effective squading is almost a must. One reason being capturing control points is 
 the main objective really and control points switch ownership faster the more troops you have around 
 them. So if you roll up with your six man squad, the control point is going to swap over to your 
 side much, much faster than if you try to capture it alone. This makes it so you can capture more 
 control points faster and also leaves you less open to enemy fire as they will be converging on 
 you and it's hard to hold a control point all by yourself.
  
  Another reason squading is important is because of the fact that you can spawn on your squad leader, 
 which saves valuable travel time, it helps keep you right in the action, assuming you have a squad 
 leader who's focused on being a good SL. Also it's more fun, the new VOIP really immerses you into 
 the game and it's fun to have your team mates yelling in your ear when they fall to a barrage of 
 enemy fire. Or having your squadmate call out a tango that's sneaking up on you.
  
  But BF2 really shines when you get one of those memorable moments. Like the first day I got the 
 game, the very first map I played was Gulf of Oman, since I was already familiar with that from 
 the demo. Well I was capturing the eastern most control point (the one near the two swimming pools) , 
 I was alone, all was going well and before I knew what happened and enemy chopper comes up from 
 behind the ridge to the north and hits me with hellfire rockets. Now as mad as I was at him for 
 killing me, I couldn't help but think, man what an awesome way to go! I mean it hit me just like 
 a real chopper would, sneaks up quietly behind the little ridge, then suddenly pops up, unleashes 
 a barrage of rockets, then soars off quickly before you even realize what happened. If you've ever 
 seen that movie Toy Soldiers, where the apache kills those guys on the roof, happened just like 
 that.
  
  Downsides, the server browser is kind of slow, which is irritating and the load time to get into 
 a match is downright horrible, I haven't time it specifically but it seems like 3-5 minutes sometimes, 
 I suppose it might actually be shorter but it sure feels like an eternity. Also there seems to 
 be an inordinate amount of lag sometimes but more annoying than that is the server booting you 
 for no reason. You'll get a message, "There is a problem with your connection," sometimes it will 
 go away after a few seconds and let you back into the game, other times you'll just be booted from 
 the server completely, which means you lose your stats for that match (I think) . 
  
  Other problems, or I should say annoyances are related to your team. If you're on a team that doesn't 
 know how to work together it can make the game very frustrating. Like if you get people who don't 
 like to squad together or a commander that doesn't know how to effectively use the tools at his/her 
 disposal. But mainly the lack of effective squading as that will cause you to die a lot and lose 
 even more. I've seen matches where we had numbers of 40 versus 24 and we lost because the other 
 team just was way more effective in their squad usage.
  
  Another concern some people express is the arcade like damage set-up, some people feel it takes 
 too long to kill someone, where you seemingly unload a full clip into them and they keep on moving. 
 I can say I too have had that thought, then it seems like other times I hit them with 3-5 shots 
 and they go down. Classic example is when you're prone and sniping someone one shot at a time, 
 it always seems it takes a lot less shots than when you're prone but firing controlled bursts; 
 even if it seems all/most of the shots are still hitting the tango. Like from prone in single shot 
 usually takes me with the M4 about 3-5 shots to down a target assuming I don't miss, on full-auto 
 firing in bursts takes about 15-20. Or being point blank unloading on someone and they don't go 
 down. Most of the time though I don't have problems with it but I do wish it was a bit more situational. 
 Like there are times I'll find a pperson prone and sniping, so ofcourse they don't see me come 
 up, I'll get right on them and put the crosshairs right on their head and it still takes the normal 
 amount of shots to kill them. To me in situations like that one shot to the head should kill them, 
 no question.
  
  Far as suggestions for additions, I'd like to see a friends list something like the one in Chaos 
 Theory, it tracks friends and gives you the option to join their server. I'd like to see some type 
 of shot confirmation for snipers, sometimes when sniping I can't tell if I actually hit the guy 
 or not. With regular weaponry it's fairly easy to discern but with sniper rifles, particularly 
 the USMC M24 one, where the scope doesn't hold position after each shot, it's a little harder to 
 be sure if you scored a hit or not since they're not 1 shot 1 kill. I also wouldn't mind seeing 
 a little more variety in fligth vehicles, there are only 3 choppers, 1 for each military and like 
 5-7 different jets to pilot. 
  
  Overall I love the game, it's very fun and the medals, ribbons, and different awards give you a 
 since of personal accomplishment and something to work for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ioden
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 25, 2005 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2, the first true sequel in the two-game and two-expansion-pack Battlefield series 
 that DICE bravely started in 2002, was announced in 2004, delayed several times, and came out just 
 last week. The game, like most games, was promised to be much, much more. The game was supposed 
 to support over 64 players, have completely destructable environments, have mod tools right off 
 the bat, be the most polished Battlefield game yet, and generally be the best online game of all 
 time. Well, the game only supports 64 players, only a few parts of the environment can be destroyed, 
 the mod tools aren't coming until next week, the game has a lot of bugs and glitches and problems 
 running on people's computer... yet in one way, it did live up to the promises made last year: 
 it's the best online game of all time. Despite all the glitches, all the problems, all the failed 
 promises, Battlefield 2 is simply too good of a game to hate. No matter how many times you scream 
 "WHAT THE HELL WAS DICE THINKING?!?!" after you get killed in a way DICE should have seen to be 
 load of crap, no matter how many glitches you see (like, in the only truly amazing act of stupidity 
 in the game's development cycle I can see, DICE leaving in one of the most annoying glitches that's 
 been in the BF games since BF1942: the glitch where if you get auto-switched to the other team 
 by the server, kills that happen at that minute that were intended for the team you were switched 
 to will count as team-kills for you) , no many how many times you quit the game and say "That's 
 it, I give up, this is the final straw... I'm not playing anymore!", you WILL keep coming back 
 for more. The game is so downright fun that, as is known to happen in the game industry, the sum 
 is more than its parts.
  
  The first thing you'll notice is the graphics. Despite having a very similar style to BF1942 and 
 BFV, Battlefield 2 has a whole new engine, which brings it into the next-generation. And since 
 BF2 was toned down graphically in order to support the enormous maps and the up to 64 players that 
 will be filling that map, it's amazing that it still visually holds up to games like Half-Life 
 2, Far Cry, and Doom 3. The textures are some of the best in gaming history (I know this because 
 the first thing I look at in a game is the texturing) , the character models are amazingly detailed 
 and are quite simply beautiful, the levels aren't destructable but sure look convincingly detailed 
 and beautiful, the vehicles are all realistic-looking and have tons of detail as well. The game 
 even has ragdoll physics, which are for the most part useless but do help a few things- especially 
 deaths- look that much better. The only problem graphically is that the game is very unoptimized. 
 You need a $100 graphics card at the least to run the game at all, and that's only on all-low settings, 
 and unless you have a complete top-of-the-line graphics card, running the game at anything more 
 than low-medium settings will get you at least the occasional framerate drop. Yet these are only 
 minor problems, and they're only with the way the graphics run, not with the graphics themselves. 
 It's hard to find fault with the graphics themselves because, quite simply, Battlefield 2 is one 
 of the single greatest-looking games of all time, on any system, and even if you play it on low 
 settings, you'll be able to see at least a glimpse of how jaw-dropping it looks on high settings.
 
  
  Just to get it out of the way in this review, the only major flaw in BF2 out of the five criteria 
 categories GameSpot has that I can think of is in the audio department. The game's sound effects 
 are great, convincing, and very atmospheric. The game features some great disorientation effects 
 from artillery, grenades, explosions, and similar things, and these effects essentially blur vision 
 a little bit and make it sound as if a flashbang grenade went off by actually blurring your audio 
 a little bit for a little while. The bullets, vehicles, explosions, guns, footsteps, explosions, 
 C4, grenades, mines, parachuting, explosions, and all the other sound effects, especially explosions, 
 all sound nice and realistic. The game also has, for the first time in the BF series, built-in 
 voice chat, and to help get rid of everybody spamming the voice channels, it only works between 
 squad-members and between Squad Leaders and Commanders. Voice chat is a vital part of the game, 
 so much that you might want to not play on servers just because they don't support it. The real 
 problems with audio are in the music and the 'announcer'. The music, while using similar tones 
 to Battlefield 2, can get a bit annoying, as not only is there too little of it and thus it loops 
 too much, but the music itself is a tad annoying in its style, though you only hear it occasionally 
 and so this isn't much of a problem. A disruptive, deep-voiced man will essentially read to you 
 all the tool-tips that appear in the game- y'know, for all those blind people who play BF2, or 
 for all those illiterate people who somehow managed to create an account, join a server, and play, 
 without reading a thing. Despite all this, though, the audio is still top-notch. The music and 
 announcer are only tiny things and wouldn't be worth noting if I wasn't trying to explain everything 
 I can.
  
  Now onto the juicy stuff: the gameplay. The Battlefield series has always been about the gameplay, 
 and BF2 has the best gameplay in the series so far. The essential stuff- vehicles, kits, guns, 
 Conquest mode (and that's the only mode, sadly, though I can't say CTF or any other mode would 
 have fit into BF2) , and most important, lots and lots of explosions and deaths- is still there, 
 but it's better than ever. Now, vehicles have many more options, including defensive abilities, 
 more maneuverability, better weaponry, and better design. Now, kits are more balanced, yet each 
 has its own special abilities that are worth choosing. Now, guns are all powerful and yet all have 
 drawbacks, to keep any one gun from being over-powered. Now, Conquest mode has scalable maps, so 
 that 16, 32, and 64 player servers each have a different experience, with each amount of players 
 having different bases, different vehicles, and much different playing areas. Now, the explosions 
 and deaths, aside from looking better, are now much more exciting. There is simply no notable problem 
 with the gameplay, because even when the maps seem unbalanced, they are quite balanced and it all 
 simply boils down to how much teamwork your team uses. Squads and commander mode especially help, 
 since in addition to the aforementioned voice-chat that helps coordination immensely, they help 
 keep everybody organized, working together, and in-the-loop, and with a commander's bird's eye 
 view and useful scanning tools, a squad leader can know where enemies are before they even know 
 where the squad leader is. You'll definitely encounter some selfish idiots who try to win the round 
 by themself, but even when they take off in a transport helicopter or APC or jeep by themself while 
 there are tons of people waiting for pick-up and without any other vehicle to use to get around 
 the enormous maps, they don't ruin the game- they just make it a tad more frustrating (one of the 
 reasons it's only "a tad more frustrating" is the Sprinting system, which lets you jet around the 
 map with ease, only pausing briefly to take a breath- this makes vehicles and bullets easier to 
 dodge and makes the maps seem much less empty) . And those same idiots are the same idiots who run 
 over your own clearly-labeled mines and then punish you for the teamkill, or who run in the middle 
 of your own artillery strike despite the obvious warnings that it's coming and then punish you 
 for the teamkill. In fact, the teamkill punishing system is a great idea in theory but with the 
 way DICE carelessly attached it to mines and artillery, it can often be exploited, since servers 
 will kick out most players after only a couple teamkill punishes and the point system (more on 
 that in a paragraph) is effected far too much by teamkills.
  
  The best new addition is the point system, though. Remember those useless points in BF1942 and 
 BFV that you got for kills and flag captures yet never really did anything for you? Well, now, 
 they do a lot for you. You get points for killing and capturing flags now, but brilliantly, DICE 
 added in damage and flag capture assists, and plenty more ways to get points. What other ways are 
 there? Well, in another brilliant move by DICE, people now get points for doing things like healing, 
 giving ammo, and repairing friendly players and their vehicles. Sure, it's only one point, but 
 if you get twenty of those teamwork points per round, it adds up quickly, and that's why you'll 
 often find many players being those support classes and you'll find them with their medkits, wrenches, 
 ammo bags, and defibulators out instead of their guns. Now, even the most selfish player has a 
 reason to help others. Everybody wins!
  
  And winning is important too, because in addition to those points, it helps you get promoted. That's 
 right, BF2 has ranks. While the ranks only give you the edge over other players when you apply 
 to be Commander (not that idiots with a high rank are always Commander while better, lower-ranked 
 players are left out of it, because you can start a mutiny vote against Commanders just like you 
 can start a kick vote against players) and give you unlockable weapons, they give you an immense 
 feeling of accomplishment to earn, and they feel important, like levels in an MMORPG. Sadly, you 
 only earn ranks that actually transfer to your account when you play on the 60 or so ranked servers 
 out there, but you do get the benefit of ranks when playing on unranked servers, so it's worth 
 it to play for a few days on ranked servers and then play on unranked servers with your friends. 
 Ranks help encourage teamwork even for lone-wolf players, and along with squads and Commander mode, 
 they help you feel like you're part of a real army. The ranks are even moderately realistically 
 named, so in case the icon next to their name doesn't tip you off, the title of Private First Class, 
 for example, on a soldier should help you realize that that soldier is ranked higher than a Private.
 
  
  You could play BF2 forever, and still not find two completely similar experiences. Certain tactics 
 will work all the time, while other ones won't, but they will never have the same result. What 
 you get from playing it is a bunch of great experiences. Whether you're a special-ops and you lie 
 prone as an APC passes right over you only to have C4 stuck to its underside by your quick reflexes 
 and then blow up said APC, or you're a medic and you rush out into the middle of an epic battle 
 and heal teammates with your medpac and revive fallen teammates with your defibulator while bullets, 
 explosions, and general battle surrounds you from all directions, or you're driving a vehicle straight 
 into an enemy vehicle and you jump out just in time to see your vehicle destroy the enemy one while 
 you remain unharmed, or you spawn next to your squad-leader in a transport helicopter and bail 
 out, paracute to the ground, and, with the assistance of your squad, take over an entire enemy 
 base while covering each-other's backs, or as a Commander you watch over an entire battle and relay 
 vital information on enemy positions and tactics to squad leaders while you call in devastating 
 artilley strikes and send your fellow soldiers a supply crate to heal and resupply them... you 
 simply can't run out of exciting, once-in-a-lifetime moments in Battlefield 2. You could drive 
 an APC fully loaded with friendly soldiers into an enemy base on the same map during ten rounds 
 in a row and every time, you'd get a different result, even if you somehow drove in the exact same 
 place.
  
  The game is especially polished in one way: balance. As I briefly mentioned before, the game is 
 extremely balanced. The kits are all equal and yet different, just like the armies, and they all 
 have useful properties that make them stand out in certain situations- and unlike classes in MMORPG's, 
 kits in BF games can be switched on the fly from the menu, and you can even pick up friendly and 
 enemy kits from the ground and use them normally, though you can't use that kit again if you die 
 and can't get to it in time unless you kill another enemy with said kit. The maps are all well-designed, 
 with each base having offensive and defensive stations, vehicles, and positions, bases being spread 
 out yet close enough together that even without vehicles you won't feel left in the dust, and each 
 of the two sides that play against each-other in each map (though it's always either USMC vs. MEC 
 or USMC vs. PLA- it's never MEC vs. PLA, suspiciously) have both advantages and disadvantages in 
 bases and tickets so that you can never blame a map for your team's loss or the other team's victory. 
 There is simply no way to be invincible in the game, because even though each class has certain 
 benefits, like healing passengers and nearby players or a speed boost for certain vehicles, every 
 vehicle can be destroyed as easily as it can destroy. A helicoper can destroy a tank, a tank can 
 destroy a helicopter. A jeep (with a gunner or two) can take down a helicopter, a helicopter can 
 blow a jeep to hell. A jeep may not be able to make a dent in a tank, but they can certainly outrun 
 a tank and even a tank's weapons, and if any players in the jeep have C4/mines/missiles or even 
 grenades, they can destroy the tank- not that the tank is helpless, because it can actually destroy 
 the jeep just by running into it a little bit, and it can even throw smoke grenades (just like 
 helicopters and planes can use flares) to mask its getaway or even just to protect itself while 
 it spins around and finds the players trying to destroy it. Every vehicle is powerful yet vulnerable, 
 and infantry certainly isn't underpowered over overpowered- a Support class, for example, can lie 
 prone and basically shoot down a helicoper with one ammo clip, yet the helicopter can easily dodge 
 the shots, and can easily kill the Support soldier with one missle or a couple bullets if it finds 
 him. Now, with damage assists, people who would waste ammo shooting at planes and helicopters or 
 throwing grenades at tanks in BF1942 or BFV will get credit for at least trying to cause damage 
 to vehicles, even if it's another player that gets the full kill (and since a kill assist is half 
 the points of a normal kill, this also gets rid of kill-stealing) , in the form of points.
  
  The only thing keeping me from calling BF2 perfect are the bugs/glitches/errors. Whether they're 
 major- like install issues or or the game not running- or minor- like performance problems or exploites- 
 they are definitely annoying. In fact, that's the problem with Battlefield 2: it seems rushed. 
 It could definitely have used another few weeks for polish (despite DICE apparently being done 
 with it in January, and using the following months for their so-called 'polish') and quality-assurance, 
 because as of now, it seems like DICE finished it the day before it went gold, played a map or 
 two, then sloppily wrote "Battlefield 2" on a gold disc and sent it to EA to be published. Not 
 that it ruins the game- it just makes it not perfect.
  
  BF2 is simply a masterpiece. There are so many moments that can't be replicated (but can be recorded 
 if you find a server with BFTV on it) to be experienced while playing it that even the flaws, like 
 bugs and glitches and errors, won't ruin your enjoyment. The majority of the large bugs will probably 
 even be fixed in the next patch (Hell, it might not even take a patch: one problem I had for a 
 while was lag, but then after finding a fix for that on the GS forums involving updated PunkBuster, 
 I didn't have it anymore- imagine if people find solutions for all the bugs and glitches like that) , 
 and that would add a lot more polish to the game right off the bat. Battlefield 2 may not be everything 
 it was promised to be, yet even with its problems, it's an absolutely amazing game. In fact, if 
 the community that previous BF games had are any indication, mods might even add in most of the 
 things BF2 was supposed to have, once the mod tools come out next week: I'm willing to bet that 
 maps with destructable environments and maps that have room for 100 players (which will be hosted 
 on servers that support 100 players, of course, which already have been created by some server 
 hosting companies) will be out by the end of the summer. Not that BF2 needs all those things, because 
 it's fully capable of winning Game of the Year as it is, and as of now, it's the best game I've 
 ever played. In short: buy this game, or even a new computer if you have to. It's worth it. Even 
 if other online games don't use ideas that it presents, BF2 is already the best online game of 
 all time, and I doubt any game, ever could take that title away from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameForLife
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 25, 2005 2:44 pm PT
Review:  When the original Battlefield came out, it was like playing war when you were little. Running around 
 where ever you want, everything was wide open. Now with Battlefield 2, they've integrated the best 
 elements of the Desert Combat mod and compelling cooperatives for better scores, into one fantastic 
 game. I've played for about 15 hours and tried all the kits. Each kit seems balanced and not too 
 over-powering. With the new points system, even playing the medic can be rewarding. 
  
  This is a game I will continue to play in single-player and multi-player for a long time. I will 
 have to upgrade my video card with BF2, since my ATI 9700Pro is showing its age (finally) . I would 
 highly recommend for any FPS or action fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meegs_6sic6
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2005 10:21 am PT
Review:  Now, I have always been a fan of the Battlefield 2 series and still play battlefield 1942 today, 
 however Battlefield 2 by far surpasses all of the previous games put together. The graphics are 
 crisp, the sound is intense, the weapon kits are well designed and add a real sense of depth to 
 the game.
  
  Now battlefield 2 is intended for multiplayer action, which it really shines at. The promotion 
 system and unlockable content really add a great deal of substance to the online play. Were seeing 
 all too many run arround and kill people untill the round is over online FPS experiances these 
 days, that is not the case at all in BF2, no matter what weapon set you choose you will always 
 be welcome withing squads, because everyone adds something to the experiance. Medics can revive 
 team mates, just so long as they havent taken a direct artillery shell to the cranium, but the 
 medic also has some pretty nice weapons, an M16 and a Beretta with a few granades, which still 
 makes him a good stand alone character. All too often we see the support characters, such as medics 
 and engineers lose out in the weapon catagory.
  
  However, you dont have to be a support character, you can be an assault character, fully equiped 
 with body armour, an M16 with grenade launcher attatched, 9mm pistol and smoke and frag grenades. 
 If you dont want an all out killer you can opt for the sniper... his kit is probably self explanitory. 
 But he offers good support and assaulting capabilities. 
  
  Now running on your own two feet arent the only way to reak some havoc in this game, if your a 
 fan of previous battlefields you should know about the vehicles availible. In BF2 the sheer amount 
 of vehicles at your desposal is jaw dropping. You have Fighter planes, Harrier jump jets, troop 
 transport hellicopters, appachie attack hellicopters, tanks, trucks, Hum V's, dune buggies... the 
 list goes on. So no matter what your in the mood for, wheather it be intense street battles or 
 arial, land or sea vehicle combat you will find it in Battlefield 2.
  
  Now one thing i have overlooked in my short review is the single player aspect of the game. What? 
 I hear you cry. Well in all battlefield games the single player has not been very good at all, 
 the only use for it really was to get a bit of practice before going into the multiplayer. Not 
 the case in BF2, the single player in this game is just as fun as the multiplayer. The computer 
 AI is very smart and hard to get the better of even on the Easy difficulty. Your squad and team 
 members work together and attack enamy outposts from all possible sides, artillery is acurate and 
 deadly even when AI controlled.
  
  If anyone out there has played Battlefield: Vietnam they will know how truely horrid the AI was 
 in that game, enamies just stood there while you shot them, they would get in vehicles and just 
 drive arround in circles. In BF 2 enamies use tactics, such as Fire and Manouvre, surround and 
 overrun, frag and clear and much much more. And this is on the easy difficulty. I can only imagine 
 how smart the AI would be on the hard difficulty.
  
  Well to round up this review i would just like to say;
  
  Battlefield 2 is one of the most 
 immersive, intense and beautiful games i have played this year. You simply must own this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunyerbiz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 25, 2005 5:03 am PT
Review:  
  The original Battlefield 1942 was a pretty major bug farm when it first released. Battlefield: Vietnam 
 was an unbalanced mess that managed to bring back some bugs that had been long since ironed out 
 of 1942. Everyone could see what incredible potential the games had, it just took DICE a few patches 
 to bring them all together. To a lesser degree, the same can unfortunately be said of Battlefield 
 2. 
  
  The same areas where DICE faltered with the original games are trouble spots in BF2. A spotty damage 
 model, inconsistent network performance and a sluggish, cumbersome interface are all evident after 
 spending ten to twelve hours with the game. The saving grace is that the game is so darn fun, even 
 with the occasional frustrations, you quickly forgive pretty much all of it's unpatched shortcomings. 
 
  
  The new additions, with the exception of stat tracking, all work very well. The commander/squad 
 dynamic is very well done and can bring the gameplay to a whole different level when utilized properly. 
 The VoIP works respectably as well. The new sprint key, the medic/support/engineer dynamic that 
 replaces the static medical/ammo kits and the artillery strikes are all wonderful. The stat tracking 
 still seems to be a work in progress as it just doesn't seem to be all that accurate at the current 
 time.
  
  The core gameplay has been discussed ad naseum, so I won't go into that much. I'll just say that 
 the infantry combat has been much improved. While the damage model can be iffy, being a foot soldier 
 in the BF universe has never been more enjoyable. The weapons and classes are balanced very nicely 
 when compared to each other. The vehicles have nice animated cockpits, sights, HUDs, etc. Apart 
 from this nice touch they are about what you'd expect if you're familiar with mods like Desert 
 Combat or Point of Existence.
  
  Graphics and sound are very well done, although not perfect. The anti-aliasing doesn't seem to 
 be all that effective when compared to other FPS games. I've also experienced a few odd graphic 
 glitches here and there. Nothing major, but not up to the level of polish as the Source engine 
 from HL2. The positional sound also seems a bit off to me at times. Helicopters flying near by 
 seem to be fully in your left ear or your right, you never get a good feeling when they are directly 
 overhead. Overall however, BF2 is both beautiful to look at and listen to. The amount of effects, 
 sounds and VoIP going on at once makes for an intense experience. 
  
  Value of the package takes a slight hit, mainly for the lackluster single player component. DICE 
 finally made some competent AI for their bots but only gave them pathfinding code for the 16 player 
 maps. This effectively limits the single player game to 1/3 of the total areas playable in multiplayer. 
 I do the majority of my gaming online, so the lack of singleplayer/Co-Op options isn't a big concern 
 for me. Still, it would have been nice for the bandwidth impaired to have the option of opening 
 up the 32 & 64 map sizes in singleplayer.
  
  When everything that BF2 has to offer comes together on a lag free, 64 player server populated 
 with mature players, you are looking at perhaps the greatest team based FPS ever. While the inconsistent 
 performance will most likely get you frustrated at times, the fun will definitely outweigh the 
 frustration in the long run. (or at least until the first patch comes out!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tycobb79
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 24, 2005 7:02 pm PT
Review:  My review starts with the gameplay. If you have played either previous Battlefield titles, you 
 should feel right at home with the controls. Controls are extremely similar to their predecessor. 
 There have been some nice enhancements, for example the 3D map is on by default. In addition, the 
 voice commands have been made easier to use. No longer do you have to use the function keys, you 
 just use your mouse. Your character movement seems very natural and fluid, although you can jump 
 high it doesnt feel exaggerated while you are doing it. Plus you can now sprint. Driving the vehicles 
 is also very well done, the smallish go-cart type vehicles are blazing fast, and the armor actually 
 moves like its heavy when you are driving. 
  Next I would like to give my opinion of the maps. In general they are very well done. Lots of 
 eye candy on every level. I especially like the Dragon Valley map, I walked around taking screenshots 
 all over the place. Lots of trees, rolling hills, and water, very scenic. 
  In closing, the above is a very basic review with only the things I noticed on my initial time 
 with Battlefield 2. I am very excited about this game surpassing Battlefield 1942 in longevity 
 and the mods should be very good. 
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raventhorn
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 24, 2005 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I will keep it short and sweet... the game has great features and functionality that make it an 
 easy upgrade over the previous games even though I prefer the World War 2 time period for combat. 
 The graphics are solid and add to the ability to make it feel like real combat (I was a sniper 
 in the US Army) . The features such as squads and commanders is really a great upgrade and make 
 the game more of a military simulator than other shooters. Again, over all, a great upgrade for 
 the series.
  
  Here is where I pick some negatives and put a little light on them so that maybe they get addressed 
 in expansions or patches:
  
  1. Persistent records. This is not consistent and not accurate. I fought on a server for 3 hours 
 and only got credit for one battle. I busted my hump and got no reward. I did this on another server 
 and got the same results.
  2. Lag. The game lags randomly and makes the game very unplayable... very jerky and unresponsive. 
 This was not a latency issue... this was a case where the game decided to lag a bit and get jittery. 
 Going to the menus and back solved this. I noticed this on two different machines... one a brand 
 new AMD 3500+ 1 Gig with a 6800 Ultra. I think this is a problem with it wanting alot of memory 
 and it hitting the drives.
  3. Ease of death. This game and the series has some serious problems with the reality of weapon 
 damage. Sniper guns, should be returned to being a rather deadly weapon and alot more accurate. 
 I fired 5 clips into a target that was sitting there doing nothing and got only one recorded hit 
 that was not even a death shot. FAR too nerfed. Yet I can get lit up with a jumping idiot player 
 for one round that kills me. STOP letting people jump like this! Do as they did in Call of Duty 
 and stagger the jumping. Take it from me, you cant jump and fire an automatic weapon with any level 
 of accuracy in reality.
  4. Vehicles are too easy to kill and sometimes too hard. Trust me on this... in addition to being 
 trained as a sniper I was also trained in anti-tank weapons. I used the Dragon which is a precursor 
 to the anti tank rocket that the US uses in the game. I got the burns from the casings to prove 
 it. :) If I shoot one of those bad boys at a tank I should be able to kill the tank or atleast 
 damage it to the point where it is ready to bail out of. If I do that in the game it takes me three 
 shots and sometimes four to kill a tank. That is retarded. Yet an APC can stroll up and side shot 
 a tank twice and kill it. APC's typically have a similar warhead to that of a dragon! I think they 
 should be balanced.
  
  That is my only big gripes... and I am sure they will get fixed. I look forward to the game's progress 
 as it gets tweaked and modded. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiwi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2005 12:09 pm PT
Review:  To review this game quite simply I would tell you to watch or rewatch the trailers of this game.
 
  
  It also applies to those who haven't found enough matches with cooperative teammates and don't 
 quite mention the good side of BF2.
  
  In the trailers the action is all pre-arranged and edited to be exciting, but while the trailers 
 might sound too good to be true, when you play with well organized squads, memorable moments like 
 the trailer shows happen at least once a match.
  
  Despite most comments on the specs needed to run the game, reviews seem to fail to mention that 
 the game has highly scalable settings and optimizes automatically. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan87
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 24, 2005 10:09 am PT
Review:  After playing the demo and having tons of fun with my friends on the Gulf_of_Oman map i figured 
 i'd go out and get the game.
  
  When i installed the game everything went fine (phew) and then i loaded her up and started playing. 
 First off here are my specs
  
  P4 2.4GHZ
  768MB DDR RAM
  6800 GT 256mb 
  
  Now its nothing great, but it runs most games fantastic, due in large part to the graphics card 
 i've got. Anyway, i could run the BF2 demo with everything on High except for Textures, set at 
 Medium. I could even run it at 4xAA at 1024x768 on a 32 player server. So i figured i'd try out 
 the full game with the same settings as they worked fine in the demo. 
  
  I have no idea what happened along the way but the game runs far worse then the demo ever did. 
 With those settings mentioned earlier, on the Gulf_of_Oman map my computer could barely cope. I 
 turned everything down to medium and tried again. Still runs poorly, but runs better on medium 
 settings then on High. Something really happened along the line to screw that up.
  
  Anyway, down to the gameplay. Essentially (Unlike Jason Ocampo's opinion) its just the same Battlefield 
 with a few new updates. Conquest mode is the only mode now, and there's about 6 or so classes to 
 choose from when your playing. The graphics are alot better then most games and remind me alot 
 of Half-Life 2, with the exception of dynamic shadows (shadows are cast on people and vehicles 
 too, its pretty cool) . There are a few new game mechanics, specifically squad mechanics. You can 
 join or create your own squad of up to 6 people and have a lot more fun blowing stuff up as a team, 
 then you would blowing stuff up on your own. There's also a Commander Mode. This is really similar 
 to the Commander mode in the Natural Selection mod for Half-Life. Its great fun ordering artillery 
 strikes down on unsuspecting enemy troops. There is also a new online ranking system, that gives 
 you the ability to win medals and proceed through the rankings of the military. You can unlock 
 new weapon sets for your classes through this, but it takes many rounds before you can proceed 
 through a rank. This encourages teamwork, which really helps Battlefield 2 strut its stuff.
  
  Also, the single campaign is incredibly weak, and virtually non-existant. The A. I is slightly 
 improved but online is where its at.
  
  Overall, thats about it for all the improvements made. Its still the same old Battlefield at heart. 
 You run around in tanks, planes and helicopters and blow stuff up. Only this time thanks to new 
 squad mechanics its alot more fun to work together on something. Plus with the ranking system, 
 the squad mechanics offers rewards for those who work together. But really, there's little difference 
 between this and Desert Combat. There is a heavier emphasis on teamwork which allows for alot more 
 fun, but on a public server you're bound to find only one or two squads per side, which really 
 degrades the experience. In the end you're still doing the same thing. Capturing flags to take 
 control of the map. 
  
  In conclusion, Battlefield 2 is a true sequel to Battlefield 1942, as it offers new incentives 
 to play the game online and work together as a team. It doesnt offer anything that hasn't been 
 done in other games but its still a good game if you're looking for a satisfying team experience.
 
  
  Pros
  * Great Online Teamplay
  * Commander Mode is great fun
  * Ranking system
  * Very Pretty
  
  Cons
  * Too few maps
  * Incredibly steep system requirements
  * Hard 
 to get a good squad on a public server
  * Essentially its Desert Combat with microphones and better teamplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonyJam999
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 24, 2005 5:56 am PT
Review:  This is a very exciting game, but I gave it a 9.0. Guns are very inaccurate had to use the whole 
 clip to kill the soldier. Sniper rifle is very weak, doesn't kill them instantly. Come on a .50 
 calibur rifle can't kill a enemy with one shot. I can't wait for the patch for this game so they 
 can straighten those problems out. Online is good but I get alot of lag because I have DSL. Graphics 
 are awesome but my framerate is allright. I have the ATI Radeon 9800 XT with a 1gig dual channel 
 memory, P4 3.00GhZ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewhite07
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2005 4:46 am PT
Review:  To start off Battlefield 2 is by far one of the most fun games I've ever played. I'm relatively 
 new to the Battlefield series having picked up Battlefield Vietnam several months before the release 
 of Battlefield 2 and the only reason I even bothered to do that was because a friend told me to. 
 Loved BFV and I loved BF2 even more. If you've never played a battlefield game before it might 
 take you a little longer to get used to the game because it's not really like anything else out 
 there. There's no real singleplayer or storyline of any kind. Sure you can play with bots (15 total 
 and no settings to change that) on the smallest version of all of the maps; and sure there are 
 mission briefings before each map which I guess you could call a "story" but that's all irrelevant 
 since this game is all about multiplayer battles. There are three factions that are the USA, China, 
 and the generic Middle Eastern Coalition. Two teams (either USA vs. MEC or USA vs. China) battle 
 in a unique way; instead of CTF or deathmatch or something of that sort these battles are all about 
 controlling territories (think Day of Defeat if you've played that) . The action is always fast 
 and fun and doesn't really ever get old. You can choose from a number of "kits" (7 for each faction) 
 which change what weapons and armor your outfitted with when you spawn and respawn into a game. 
 There's also a large array of vehicles at your disposal including tanks, APC's, helicopters, planes, 
 boats etc. Almost always there's more than one position in a vehicle so teamwork is necessary.
 
  
  The graphics in Battlefield 2 are absolutely beautiful if you've got a good enough computer to 
 handle it. Everything looks nice and realistic and theres some very nice shading effects at work. 
 There's a very cool looking effect that occurs when an explosion goes off next to you where everything 
 goes blurry and you're hearing fades out and you can hear bells ringing. The sound effects were 
 really good generally speaking. I particularly liked the shotgun and some assault weapon sounds. 
 There's no soundtrack in-game but the menu and loading screen music is pretty nice though i think 
 there's only about half a dozen tracks and they usually only last a minute or two. I would have 
 liked it if they kept the in-vehicle radio from BFV but I can understand why they decided to leave 
 it out. The game will probably keep you entertained for a long time because the way it's designed, 
 every game is completely different.
  
  A few new features have been added like being able to sprint, or being able to play as a medic 
 but the biggest changes are the squad system and the commander position. Squads play a big role 
 in games now since they are almost necessary to be able to accomplish anything. Going solo and 
 being effective in any way is very hard if not impossible unless you're a sniper, in a tank, or 
 a plane. Squad leaders act as mobile spawn points for anyone in the squad so it's important to 
 keep him healthy and alive. They can also issue orders either from the commander or from their 
 own judgment. The commander position is also very important as they can issue orders to all the 
 squads, they can see the entire map, they have access to all sorts of things such as artillery, 
 supplies, and mobile "enemy detectors." EA has elso created a ranking system which is pretty complicated 
 so I won't bother to go into detail just suffice it to say that you can win medals, unlock new 
 weapons and kits, 
  
  All of this is well and good assuming you're not playing with idiots which I haven't had too many 
 problems with. However, I have had a number of connection problems which I assume is caused by 
 my firewall but I can't be certain since I have followed their directions for opening firewall 
 ports and the problems still persist. My biggest problem is the fact that I get disconnected from 
 the server after EVERY SINGLE ROUND. It's very annoying but I've learned to deal with it and have 
 requested help from EA support but have yet to get a response in over 35 hours of waiting... Lag 
 is pretty bad on ranked servers that have over about 30 people. In my experience it's best to play 
 unranked or on low population ranked if you want to unlock new stuff.
  
  So to wrap things up, assuming you can get a good connection on a good server, Battlefield 2 is 
 one of the best games you'll ever get to play. it was well worth the wait and anticipation and 
 I would highly recommend it to anyone. See you on the field soldier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wedge9k
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2005 3:41 am PT
Review:  I honestly it is impossible for me to not recommend this game to anyone. The gameplay is tight 
 and fun that will provide anyone with hours and hours of enjoyment. You can easily play for a few 
 hours or minutes and come away with a smile on your face. Even if your team comes out losing, you'll 
 still be bragging on how you slapped some C4 on an enemy helicopter or some other amazing moment.
 
  
  The only flaws that I've found in the game are the auto-balance rules where sometimes a squad leader 
 or commander is automatically switched without warning and the Online Game Browser. The game browser 
 does what it is supposed to do, but it could have been so much better that it really takes away 
 from this game's otherwise perfect score. A way to save favorite servers or make buddy lists would 
 have been really nice.
  
  Other than that this game can be summed up in one word... Awesome. If you don't have a headset 
 with a microphone I suggest getting one. There is no better feeling than communicating with your 
 squad and working together to outwit the enemy. The graphics are very impressive, even if you have 
 to run it on Low like me :) . I have to recommend this game to anyone who plays videogames. Even 
 if you have to spend a few hundred dollars to upgrade, I promise you that it is worth every penny. 
 This game will give you more bang for your buck than most other games on the market. If you are 
 still not sure just download the demo and play that for a day or two, I'm sure that you'll find 
 the perfect game that you are looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paintballa
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 24, 2005 12:12 am PT
Review:  Again Awesome game!!! Great graphics and gameplay. They say u need a monster machine to play this, 
 nopes u dont. Game looks good with whatever u have it set on. I recommend putting on AA because 
 it will smooth out the game. Those rough edges are a killer. The sound is awesome also. I have 
 some Sony Noise Cancelling earphones, those things make u feel like your on a battlefield. The 
 sounds of bullets flying past your head, the deafening sound of a tank shooting right next to you. 
 Oh man. Especially when u are around a Helicopter and its spittin out bullets from its chain gun. 
 SCARY!!! 
  Some of the things that should of been implemented would be binoculars, a peak or lean button, 
 roll on the ground button, night vision for night maps (if they do put some night maps in) . Among 
 some other goofy stuff like dying when u run up to a moving tank from the side or back and it kills 
 you. Team-kills is kind of over done. U can penalize your teammate and they get kicked out of the 
 server after a few votes. But other than those bag things this game rocks. 
  This game made me convert to a Battlefield fan. I came from the Joint Ops crowd. This game impressed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coreyq
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2005 9:20 pm PT
Review:  I think that BF2 was a great improvement for the older BF1942 series. Its packed with action as 
 u can do just about anything. As far as gameplay goes EA (DICE) did great with the destruction engine 
 allowing u to blow up bridges, but not buildings, work as a team (depends on the people playing) . 
 There is a online stat system that allows players to keep up with their progress and even other 
 gamers progress. Everything from Head shots to tank kills can be found on your stats page. Another 
 cool thing about BF2 is the ability to go up in rank (kinda like AA4.0) were u start off as private 
 and work your way up. Next the unlock feature which allows you to unlock certain weapons depending 
 on what class you are using and how many points u obtain with that class. Each class has a its 
 own weapons and abilities, and in this case makes it a challenge for players to face each other 
 and choose the correct method of infiltration. A sniper may need to remain unseen and pick his 
 shoots wisely, while a assault may need to enter and take bases. Each class is pretty self explanatory 
 which give gamers a wide verity of methods. Team work being the most important of all. Hopefully 
 a patch would help with some of the problems (crashes, slow server browser, ect..) in the game. Its 
 a guaranteed that you will over look these little issues due to game play. I must say hands down 
 BF2 looks, plays, and feels like a real war simulation and this is what make it an Amazing Game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duxup
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 23, 2005 6:41 pm PT
Review:  The curiously named Battlefield 2 is actually the third game in the Battlefield series and by far 
 the best yet. Providing both a tactically satisfying and fast paced game Battlefield 2 provides 
 one of the few experiences where the player can truly feel like theyre going to war on a large 
 battlefield with the opportunity to drive planes, helicopters, tanks, APCs, and engage in infantry 
 firefights all in one game. Both figuratively and literally Battlefield 2 is a blast.
  
  Fans of the original Battlefield games could be forgiven for wondering how good Battlefield 2 really 
 is. Battlefield 1942 was provided a unique experience but wasnt without some issues. Battlefield 
 Vietnam was released with a lot of promise but technical issues and some severe balance issues 
 rained on that parade regularly over the life of the game. Toss in some fantastic looking screen 
 shots released of Battlefield 2 and there was plenty of reason to wonder if Battlefield 2 would 
 be all it was hyped up to be. Fortunately for skeptics and true believers alike Battlefield 2 comes 
 through with its promises in spades.
  
  The core game play of Battlefield 2 remains the same as the previous games. Two teams face off 
 over a large map containing various bases / spawn points. Each side tries to capture and defend 
 as many bases as possible. Meanwhile both sides also have a large pool of tickets from which each 
 player draws on when they spawn back into the game after being killed. Alternately the opposing 
 teams can reduce the number of available tickets by capturing all the available bases thus causing 
 the opposing teams ticket pool to slowly begin counting down. Adding to the fun the players can 
 utilize vehicles such as apcs, tanks, lighter vehicles ground vehicles, attack and transport helicopters, 
 and jets to both fight from and traverse the battlefield with. 
  
  In past Battlefield games the battles often resembled two angry mobs randomly gunning each other 
 down rather than organized armies meeting on a battlefield. While Battlefield 2 doesnt turn public 
 servers into the same experience that you might have when playing with friends, Battlefield 2 does 
 introduce some interesting new systems that tangibly improve the multiplayer experience.
  
  The first addition that affects teamwork is the new squad system. In the same menu you choose your 
 spawn point you can choose to join a squad with up to six members in each squad. Doing so provides 
 you with some benefits. First is that you can actually spawn at the location of your squad leader. 
 Second is that your squad mates will appear in green on your map making it easier to identify where 
 your squad is. The third benefit is that upon joining a squad your squad is given its own private 
 voice channel in order to communicate. Considering that most of the people joining squads want 
 to work together and that the voice communication software is built right into Battlefield 2, the 
 squad system makes hooking up with and communicating with players who want to work with each other 
 exceptionally easy.
  
  Another addition to enhance teamwork is that of the commander position. Depending on your score 
 in previous games you may elect to become the commander of your entire team. Having attained that 
 position you then have the power to call in powerful air strikes, deploy drones that reveal the 
 location of enemy units in a limited area to your entire team, can airdrop supplies to your allies, 
 and give orders to the various squads on your team. While the commander cant dominate a game, 
 they certainly can tip the balance in a close game with a timely artillery bombardment on an enemy 
 base before an assault, and on a particularly cooperative server a good commander can be invaluable. 
 
  
  In addition to the squad and commander systems the communication amongst all players a team has 
 been improved as well. When a player spots an enemy solider or unit all a player needs to do to 
 notify his or her teammates is press and hold the Q key, place his crosshairs on what he has spotted, 
 and click the left mouse button. The player then automatically will call out to his teammates with 
 what he saw. In addition an enemy icon representing that enemy soldier or unit will appear on the 
 map for a short time for the entire opposing team to see. Such spotting is so easy even the greenest 
 players can do it, and doing often brings the appropriate cooperation from teammates even on some 
 of the least cooperative servers. 
  
  The various classes of solider you can choose before spawning in Battlefield 2 have once again 
 been changed, this time for the better. Each class has some advantages and disadvantages. Unlike 
 some previous battlefield games there doesnt seem to be a dominate class and youll find a variety 
 solders on the field. Balance between classes is so good that no one class is totally at the mercy 
 of another. Even a mediocre player has a good chance of taking out any opponent regardless of what 
 class either plays. This balance should provide Battlefield 2 with even more longevity as it can 
 be great fun to play as anyone of the classes. The only exception might be the lowly engineer whose 
 shotgun is only marginally useful and other weapons such as mines dont provide for much action.
 
  
  A few classes have had some major changes made to them. Snipers will find that as a sniper they 
 dont have as big an impact as in previous games as they will likely need to take at least two 
 shots to bring down an opponent in Battlefield 2. While might not seem like a huge change on the 
 surface, it does seem to prevent snipers from dominating the game as much as they did in the past 
 and prevent some of the sniper wars that seemed t make for relatively unrealistic and slow games 
 compared to what the Battlefield games seemed to intend. 
  
  Support classes such as engineers and medics no longer need to actively repair units and fellow 
 solders in the same way they did in the past. Both are granted a small radius effect where if they 
 are near a vehicle or solider in need of repair the repair will automatically take place (provided 
 they are holding the right tool or are in a vehicle) and both classes can earn points for such 
 repairs. Medics can also drop a few med kits on the field that heal solders that are in need. In 
 addition medics now have a defibrillator that when used on an ally shortly after being killed can 
 revive that ally. In a fun twist the defibrillator can also be used to kill opponents provided 
 you can get close enough to them. Toss in the fact that medics also now carry an assault rifle 
 and the medic class becomes one of the most fun classes to play. While it could be argued that 
 medics score a lot of points easily because they can revive fellow players and act offensively, 
 it should be noted that they also have to take the risk of running across a battlefield and working 
 to revive an ally with no defense while doing so. In fact in many games youll see medics inexplicably 
 running through a firefight with a defibrillator or med kit in order to save an ally, and it should 
 only take a few friendly medics to revive a player in order to convince them of the value of rewarding 
 such brave acts.
  
  The sound in Battlefield 2 is quite good. The individual weapons all have distinctive sounds and 
 many players will find that the sound of an enemy weapon will give away their position and they 
 will find that theyll want keep their own ears open and be selective when they choose to open 
 fire when on offense. Some interesting effects such as a distinct jet engine sound heard over the 
 radio when a pilot reports, and a ringing ears effect that takes place when a large explosion takes 
 place round out a good auditory experience.
  
  The vehicles in Battlefield 2 are much the same as in past games. Youll have the slower heavy 
 vehicles such as tanks and APCs, and lighter faster vehicles such as a Humvee. Each has their own 
 strengths and weaknesses, and like the past games vehicles are an important part of the game, but 
 they do not dominate the game. Driving directly into an enemy base might seem like a good way to 
 capture it but if youre alone you wont last long.
  
  The air units in Battlefield 2 also havent changed a whole lot. Jets and helicopters certainly 
 can inflict some serious damage on the ground but they wont win the battle alone. Also many bases 
 are now equipped with their own fixed surface to air missiles positions meaning that any solider 
 can potentially take down air units. While not defenseless (equipped with flares) a few SAM missiles 
 can do a good job of dispersing or destroying an enemy air attack. 
  
  The graphics in Battlefield 2 are stellar, especially considering the size of the maps you play 
 on. The lighting provides for interesting opportunities for cover and look great, and the textures 
 provide a great sense of the natural surfaces. Each building and piece of cover looks sufficiently 
 unique so that its not hard to figure where you are. These graphics do come with the price of 
 some fairly high system requirements. Provided you have a relatively new video card you should 
 be in good shape, but beyond that you may want to consider an upgrade.
  
  The Battlefield 2 series has always been a primarily multiplayer experience and there have been 
 additions improvements made just for multiplayer games as well. To play multiplayer the player 
 first needs to login to the Gamespy network, in turn Battlefield 2 now track of a number of stats 
 from a each players multiplayer games and as players play they can advance in rank (making their 
 bid to be commander more successful) and unlock some weapons. The concept of a persistent identity 
 in a multiplayer game isnt entirely new but few FPSs have tried it and it seems to work well with 
 Battlefield 2.
  
  The single player game of Battlefield 2 shouldnt be over looked as well. In past Battlefield games 
 the single player AI was something the equivalent of a particularly unintelligent puppy, but Battlefield 
 2 has made great strides in this area. While the AI isnt anything revolutionary it certainly is 
 sufficient for some training, a quick game here or there, and it even can surprise you from time 
 to time.
  
  Being a multiplayer game one of Battlefield 2s biggest issues may come as a surprise. The in game 
 server browser is only barely adequate. While it wont totally prevent a player from finding a 
 game, it also doesnt seem to help much and can be a source of great frustration. The browser is 
 exceptionally slow in responding to requests to sort based on even the most simple of criteria 
 such as ping, server population, etc. and even when it does respond it doesnt always seem to sort 
 properly. How a game that loads huge maps and looks as good as it does can perform so well, but 
 cant sort a list of servers is downright dumfounding.
  
  In addition there are some other miscellaneous issues with Battlefield 2. One of those issues is 
 that the auto team balance occasionally fails to work. At times the game will inexplicably add 
 new players to teams who already outnumber their opponents by double digits. This might be a bigger 
 issue if the maps were smaller but the game supports up to 64 players total and with such large 
 maps a few extra players dont make that big a difference as they do on servers with fewer players. 
 Another issue is that the menu system in the game seems excessively complex. Just a couple menu 
 choices could cover most of the options, rather the game has numerous menus causing the gamer to 
 needlessly have to hunt through the menus for the option theyre looking for. 
  
  The last apparent issue is with some of the maps shipped with the final product. While some maps 
 seem have been well designed and polished to provide for numerous tactics and experiences, other 
 maps seem a great deal more random and limited. On some maps bases are well designed with numerous 
 points that could be attacked, and yet were still reasonably defensible with a handful of skilled 
 solders. On other maps bases are simply a flag with a small structure and are ridiculously exposed, 
 or are placed amidst such complex structures that it would be impossible to defend without engaging 
 nearly all the teams forces. While a mix of bases and maps is nice some of the more random maps 
 seem to make teamwork much more difficult and cause the whole battle to breakdown into chaos as 
 most players ignore the exceptionally exposed bases and focus on those they have a chance to hold. 
 Of course any criticism of the maps must be taken with a grain of salt this early on as the Battlefield 
 2 community will no doubt evolve. Perhaps some as yet undiscovered strategies will be developed 
 to tame some of the more chaotic maps. Fortunately none of these issues are deal breakers and they 
 would seem to be fairly easy to fixes to make with a patch.
  
  Nearly three years, two games, and handful of expansion packs and mods after the release of the 
 original Battlefield game the series has taken a big leap forward with Battlefield 2 and it seems 
 almost all of it is for the better. The originally chaotic and wildly fun game now has a big dose 
 of tactics thrown in as well. It is still fun enough to hop in for a quick run and gun battle, 
 and at the same time capable of handling some highly tactical and challenging battles. Provided 
 youve got PC powerful enough to run it, Battlefield 2 is a game that should not be missed by any 
 multiplayer FPS fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: irishhockeyplay
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 23, 2005 3:22 pm PT
Review:  The game is beautiful. Graphics are wonderful and the gameplay is fun. The problem did not lay 
 in the game itself. The problem was when I dove into multiplayer mode. Previously I downloaded 
 the demo and played it religiously. I wanted to make sure I was ready for some of the better players, 
 something I overlooked when I bought Battlefield Vietnam too late. After a week of playing the 
 demo I noticed the players were starting to actually use the squad and commander as tools instead 
 of priviliges. Instead of running around like renegades people fought as a team. I was happy to 
 see this happening, it made the game a lot more fun. Unfortunately, when the new version came out, 
 no one kept that mentality. I even had my own commander artillery our own guys 3 times. In one 
 instance he lit up our own spawn point twice. Then, an enemy objective that we were sitting on, 
 and almost had, killing 3 friendly tanks, 2 friendly APC's and 2 assault forces. When I tried to 
 mutiny everyone was so worked up over being a rogue that they didn't vote him off. Instances like 
 these made the game get boring quick. There was no point in taking spawn points, and winning, only 
 to kill for your individualplayer growth. Hopefully things will get better but my hopes were a 
 little crushed after hearing all the fantastic reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chinbobbabobot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 23, 2005 11:40 am PT
Review:  Awesome. That's the best word for this game. There's something amazing about being able to blow 
 the hell out of your enemies on a gigantic, nonlinear battlefield. 
  I've only had it for a day and already I've had some amazing moments. Taking a Predator missile 
 to the top of a giant crane, then using it to rip apart enemy tanks- then, when I was done, i had 
 to run for my life as artillery pounded my spot. This game is filled with those moments. I have 
 yet to play an online game because I'm still trying to upgrade my PC's performance, so that I can 
 have the smoothest run possible. 
  
  That's one thing I have a problem with. In fact, it's my whole problem. This game is awesome. But 
 it takes an enormous amount of gaphical power. At first I looked at the graphics and thought to 
 myself, 'What's so great about them? They look like BF1942'. But that was before I found out my 
 settings were on the lowest quality. 
  It looks awesome on highest quality. But as you up the power, it gets more unstable. Massive amounts 
 of slowdown on lower-end PCs. On the medium setting it's not so bad- A little slowdown in the beginning, 
 and after that it runs smooth. But my biggest problem was that even at those settings, the controls 
 were laggy. They'd respond really, really slowly sometimes. A lot, in fact. So I suggest you buy 
 a lot of upgrades before you even think of playing it, let alone installing it. 
  There's tons of replay value. This isn't a game you finish. You play until you can play no more. 
 This game is the definition of awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Icon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 22, 2005 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 fulfills its potential as a perfect follow up to the Battlefield series. Battlefield 
 2 has been one of the most anticipated games since the day it was announced and its release dat 
 was delayed by 3 weeks, but it was defiantly worth the wait.
  
  The single player portion of the game has been improved greatly..... The bots have now a better 
 AI and they do master all different types of weapons. They also fashion teamwork over going solo 
 and getting killed in an ambush, however the singleplayer isn't as enjoyable as the online multiplayer 
 portion.
  
  What makes this game stand out, is its amazing multiplayer online portion and its graphics. You 
 can jon servers with upto 64 players which is very enjoyable... and all maps have been reduced in 
 size so that gameplay isn't as slow paced as it was in previous Battlefield games. Also vehicles 
 are now abundant in maps for those poor players who get shot from their planes, so they parachute 
 down and find themselves stranded away from the action. These people can hop into one of the many 
 awesome new vehicles in BF2. The vehicles are also a strong aspect in the game; There's a massive 
 variety of lethal, fast and strong armored vehicles. The kits are balanced now rather than in BFV 
 when one side got an RPG and a pistol and the other side gets an RPG and a semi automatic. Concerning 
 the graphics, they can't be any better... vast detailed environments and highly detailed models. 
 Also the ragdoll physics make this game oh so much enjoyable; Now when you fire a tank projectile 
 towards a player, he wil be blown away in a very realistic manner. 
  
  The ranking system and being a commander are also two of the new nice additions.... The ranking 
 system is what makes this game worthwhile! After each game, depending on your kill to death ratio 
 and your rank in the server you're playing in, you get promoted in rank.... from a private to a 
 private first class and so on. Now you have an option of being a commander, which sounded like 
 a good idea at first but its actually not as cool as it seems unless you're playing with people 
 who you know and you know that they will follow your orders. The biggest problem with this game 
 is finding a good server where people are going to do the common childish things they do like team 
 killing and spawn camping so you had better find a good clan if you don't want to find yourself 
 in aserver full of people who do such childish things. Also the load times are pretty long. It 
 takes about 2 minutes to join the server and load the map.
  
  Overall, this game is very enjoyable and doesn't disappoint, but make sure that your machine meets 
 the system requirements because this game is very demanding and needs high end hardware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2005 5:36 am PT
Review:  I think the Gamespot review nailed it when they basically said at its worse this is a great multiplayer 
 game, but at its finest the game transcends any other multiplayer experience to date. Well, I'm 
 paraphrasing. 
  
  Praise:
  
  What amazes me is how well integrated the teamwork is in this game, it's truly exceptional. Even 
 on public servers you'll find teamwork if you just have one or two squads and a commander. Obviously 
 you can't force someone into a squad, but you'll certainly be playing at a disadvantage if you 
 don't. As a squad, you can call upon a multitude of favours from your commander and squad mates 
 such as UAV, artillery, supplies, etc. You can also ask squad mates to spawn as a kit that you 
 may require for the moment. One of the coolest parts about the squad as well is the spawn on squad 
 leader option. It just makes it so easy to stick together. Your squad leader can either await orders 
 from the commander or designate orders for your squad. It adds a certain sense of strategy and 
 direction the original battlefield games just didn't have, and it's what brings this game into 
 a new realm.
  
  The commander role is very unique and actually brings a completely fresh element of gameplay to 
 BF2. It almost plays like a RTS game, especially if your squads are listening to you, which they 
 do for the most part (in my experience) . Playing on the public servers, you'll almost always notice 
 you have that one "dream team" squad lead by a well rounded individual who carries out your orders 
 to the 'T'. Playing with people such as this really makes the experience that much more rewarding. 
 As commander, I usually enjoy tucking myself away in a well secured corner and just leading my 
 squads from the command screen. The artillery is what makes this role that much more fun though. 
 There's nothing quite like zooming in on a portion of the map and watching a bombardment come down 
 on the enemy.
  
  The new weapons and kits are pretty much what you'll find in Desertcombat, not much new to report. 
 I think the best new kit feature is probably the medic shock paddles which can be used to revive 
 teamates and even kill unsuspecting enemies (mostly snipers) . It's also worth noting that the anti-armour 
 kit now has an automatic weapon.
  
  The vehicle gameplay is also still very much the same as Desertcombat with a few added features 
 like lock on warnings when anti aircraft or anti armour is in sight. I must admit, being an avid 
 DC pilot in the choppers, I really hated the helo controls at first, but they are starting to grow 
 on me though there are still some real annoying features... they almost have a natural distaste 
 of the ground and you really have to hit down to land... kind of a pain.
  
  VOIP makes teamplay/communication a sinch, and the way it's integrated with various channels means 
 you won't be hearing way too much noise.
  
  While you only get conquest, the game feels like an objective based game as well as the enemy has 
 targets to destroy (the commander's arsenal) . This adds a whole new spin on conquest especially 
 since a good commander using these tools is very deadly. Take them away and you'll find you've 
 effectively stunned the enemy for a good period of time.
  
  Gripes:
  
  Once again, the single player mode isn't worth a whole hell of a lot. People are saying the enemy 
 AI is so much better, but I don't see it. I played the demo singleplayer mode on veteran and beat 
 the computer the first time out and I'd never even played the game. The worst part is that you 
 can't even play more than 16 players on singleplayer so you can't even really practice... kind of 
 a joke, I don't see why it was necessary to do this.
  
  The ranked system is really cool, the game tracks your stats, medals, etc and allows you to unlock 
 new weapons and up your rank. The problem is it's only available to EA servers, so that pretty 
 much sucks if you know anything about how crappy EA servers have been to play on in the past.
 
  
  The specs are just way too beefy on this game... as an ATI user I fear little to no support once 
 again.
  
  VOIP is great, but more people need to start using it otherwise it's completely useless.
  
 
  Where's the CTF?!?
  
  
  All and all, this game is amazing, and when everything comes together, it's bar none the best experience 
 you can have playing an online shooter. To simply call it an online shooter is a discredit to its 
 new innovations. Well done DICE... good recovery after the disgraceful Battlefield Vietnam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalger21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 21, 2005 7:56 pm PT
Review:  After playing Battlefield 2, I ask myself why can't other developers make a great FPS like DICE 
 has with this beauty? If you played the demo, you will be familiar with the setup and the gameplay 
 with the FullVersion. Once you start playing, you will not want to stop. You pick as one of the 
 three factions, United States Marine Corps (which I am biased to because I served 7 great years 
 as a Marine) , the Republic of China, and the Middle East Coalition, a fictional group made for 
 this game. Next, you can choose whether to be a commander, in a squad, or a lonewolf. The commander 
 mode is a first come, first serve basis but is also dependant on your rank. The job of the commander 
 is to call in for air support, drop supplies, and direct is squad as a whole. As a squad leader 
 or member, your primary job is to destroy anything in your wake. They have several kits to choose 
 from. My personal favorite is the Spec-ops in which I can grab c4 and go to the opposing teams 
 spawn and blow up their satellite equipment so they are unable to call in air support and such. 
 It is also useful for tanks and anything else that needs taking out. Other kits include the sniper, 
 medic, engineer, etc. The graphics are great if you have an adequate system to run them on. My 
 system is a P4 3.2 GHz with 2 GB of RAM and a Radeon 9800 Pro 256 MB video card and the the graphics 
 look amazing. I know there are other players who don't have a great system and may complain about 
 the lag factor or maybe the fact that the graphics don't look as crisp. I would suggest for those 
 players to upgrade quickly because this game is definitely worth it. Some have tried to compare 
 this game to NovaLogic's Joint Operations. Although the games have a similar feel to them, BF2 
 is far better than JO could ever have been. BF2 is more crisp, more action oriented, and just plain 
 more fun than Joint Ops. One knock against BF2 is the fact of that the game can feel a bit overwhelming 
 at times. Not being able to just pick up and play may be a turn off to the novice players out there. 
 The learning curve is steep, to say the least. Just trying to change your controls is a bit of 
 a chore. I would suggest getting a joystick for those that want to fly the helo's and jets because 
 trying to do it with just your keyboard is rather difficult. I spent the first 10 minutes upside 
 and crashing into the side of mountains and oceans trying to fly with just my keyboard. Once I 
 hooked up my joystick, it was a breeze. Veterans of the previous Battlefield game will feel at 
 ease with this one because it feels like BF1942 but just a bit better. The addition of a ranking 
 system is also a plus. The more rank you get, the more weapons you unlock as well as kits. Also, 
 the ability to see how far you are away from your next rank is a plus for those who like to play 
 for the stats. All in all, I can't be more pleased with this effort from EA and DICE and look forward 
 to having my weekend gone because of playing BF2 all day and night. Nicely done EA.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keenan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 21, 2005 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This is the top of the FPS market right now. You could make an argument for Counter Strike, and 
 I would listen for only a brief moment. Battlefield 2 combines everything that most people do i 
 games. shooting, flying, driving, boating (no fishing) , and a little of organizing the troops. This 
 games replay value is sick. 
  
  The only issue I have is that you can only play 16 players in the single player version. The reason 
 I want more is that i need practice flying the helicopter. This is the first version of this game 
 that im going to play religiously, and if I want to be good; I am going to need practice flying 
 that plane, and A. I players would be perfect to practice on.
  
  But enough of this, I need to go play this game. 
  OH and yes, it is worth buying a better graphics 
 card just to play.
  
  X800, P4 3.0HT, 2GB ram - And if i max everything out. I still get random crashes. What a Hog. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DakotaKid
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 21, 2005 5:27 pm PT
Review:  With a 9.3 SUPERB rating from gamespot... which is a great rating by GS... i would think that the 
 TILT would be a 10. Not that i am complaining... but not a 10 on the tilt scale? Come on GS... you 
 guys are great... and i love what you guys do... but i cannot for the life of me see how games not 
 even close can get a TILT of 10 by your website and not BF2. I have seen many weak games get a 
 10 on the tilt that could
  n't even compare to BF2. Overall 9.3 was appropriate... but trust me... when playing online war games 
 this is as close to perfect as you will see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joncoaster
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2005 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is unbelieveable! I was trying to think something it was a 9 on and I couldnt. This game 
 is perfect. 10 for gameplay because of the squad system and etc. 10 for graphics but you need a 
 good graphics to play this game. 10 for sound because the sound was amazing in this game. It sounded 
 so real to an m4 and a m16. And 10 for value because YOU NEVER GET BORED of this game! This game 
 is perfect! and if you really dont like games get it any way it will be the more thrills you have 
 ever expericed believe  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtNate
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 21, 2005 2:49 pm PT
Review:  As it says in my deck this is definetly one of the best games of the year. Let me get started on 
 the balance of all the weapons and vehicles. For every vehicle theres a vehicle or weapon to counter 
 it. And it works pretty good. The squad interface is well thought out. The viop (integrated voice 
 system) . Squad members can only talk to other squad members. Squad leaders can only talk to the 
 commander and the commander can only talk to squad leaders. This way theres not 32 people screaming 
 out of your speakers. The sound is very well done also. It immerses you when your assualting across 
 a field or beach to get a spawn point and theres 50cals, grenades, helicopters, artillary, and 
 random other small arms going off. Theres so manl awsome moments and the squad interface really 
 makes people play as a team. Like the gamespot review said even at its worst its just as good as 
 the prievious games. I think at its worse its better. At its best its the most amazing game ive 
 ever played. Trying to fend of three squads becuase all the squad leaders are hiding behind rocks (you 
 can spawn off them) is fun. Espically luanching 203 grenades to flush them. The ragdoll physics 
 can be over exagerated but they are good all round. If you have ever liked, currently like or are 
 interested in first person shooters on a massive scale this is a must buy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
