-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battlefield 2: Special Forces
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/battlefield2specialforces/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Eight cool new levels and six new factions to play with.
 More focus on infantry and urban combat, less on vehicles.
 Night vision, grappling hooks, zip lines, and other cool new toys.
 More of the great gameplay that made Battlefield 2 one of the best action games of the year.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Huge, showstopping bugs can prevent you from even playing the game.
 Performance drops if there's too much action on the screen.
 Resource hog and longer loading times than Battlefield 2.
 EA's new digital distribution service has issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 23, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.9, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 3,911 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Digital Illusions
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Nov 21, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With its focus on infantry and urban combat, Special Forces delivers more of the intense and insanely 
 fun Battlefield 2 gameplay; at least, it does if you can get it running. 

  It didn't take long for EA and DICE to turn out Battlefield 2: Special Forces, the expansion to 
 this year's smash online action game. And judging from the teething problems that the expansion 
 is having, it looks like EA and DICE Canada (the developer of Special Forces) didn't take long 
 enough. That's because Special Forces is an excellent expansion that delivers more of the intense 
 online combat that fans of Battlefield 2 adore, but it's also crippled by some potentially showstopping 
 bugs. If you can get it running, though, you're in for a great time.  

          The ATV is but one of the new vehicles in the expansion, but rest assured, there's a lot 
 of infantry combat in it.     

  There's some really great new content in Special Forces that builds on the strengths of Battlefield 
 2. Special Forces adds a total of eight new maps, including a spaceport complete with a launching 
 pad and rocket, gutted-out cities, an airfield, and an island. All these maps have an infantry-heavy 
 focus, even on their larger, 64-player variants, and that's good news to Battlefield 2 fans, since 
 the most popular levels in the core game are the urban ones, such as Strike at Karkand. The other 
 good news is that the expansion features a number of urban levels similar to Karand and Sharqi 
 Peninsula. In fact, they may be a bit too familiar, as there are some buildings and objects recycled 
 from the core game. Still, there's enough new content in the levels to differentiate them from 
 their predecessors and to provide more urban playgrounds to romp around in. For example, there's 
 a palace level in which one side has to battle through a city to the palace's gates and then into 
 the palace itself, which provides a large mix of indoor and outdoor combat. Yet perhaps the best 
 new map is a reverse amphibious assault, in which the Middle Eastern Coalition forces must board 
 and take over a US aircraft carrier defended by Navy SEALs; the action takes place on the carrier's 
 deck, in its vast hangar bays, and in its corridors and rooms below.  

  Meanwhile, there are six new factions in the expansion, which is a big number considering that 
 Battlefield 2 itself only shipped with three. These new factions are needed to justify the scenarios 
 (for example, Russian special forces versus an insurgent group, or British SAS versus a different 
 type of rebel group) , though one of the disadvantages of having six factions and only eight maps 
 is that you see factions only once or twice throughout the game. You still can't mix and match 
 factions and maps to create different face-offs (DICE says this is for balance purposes) , so it 
 seems like you get to see your favorite new faction on only a couple of occasions. Then again, 
 the factions are all fairly interchangeable to begin with, since they feature similar weapons and 
 vehicles.  

  Even though we're dealing with Special Forces in this expansion, each faction is broken down into 
 the same classes as the conventional factions in Battlefield 2. So each faction has a special forces 
 class armed with a carbine and plastic explosives, a support class that carries a light machine 
 gun and can drop ammo packs, an antitank class that carries a submachine gun and a tank-killing 
 weapon (there's even a new RPG!) , and so on. Speaking of the new RPG, there are a slew of new weapons 
 to round out the arsenals, though for the most part these simply feel like cousins of existing 
 Battlefield 2 weapons. For example, there's a new British assault rifle that has a grenade launcher 
 attached, and a new SEAL carbine with a scope, and they operate just like the weapons in Battlefield 
 2. The major additions to the game are new toys that you get to play with that you didn't have 
 access to before. These include the grappling hook, zip line, and flashbang and tear-gas grenades. 

          Grappling hooks give you and your teammates the ability to scale buildings.     

  The 
 grappling hook and zip line provide a whole new level of mobility to infantry, and now you can 
 haul yourself up to a previously inaccessible rooftop or perhaps bypass a heavily defended stairwell 
 by climbing up the side. Since you carry either a hook or a zip line, you'll need to work together 
 with your team if you really want to exploit these new capabilities. These new items are balanced 
 well so they're useful without being overpowered. For example, climbing up the rope is a slow process 
 (just like it was in gym class) , so you're completely exposed to anyone passing by who wants to 
 take a few free shots at you. Meanwhile, zipping down the line can also leave you a sitting duck 
 if you're not careful. The new grenade types are a bit too much, though, and they're already being 
 overused in matches. For example, you can carry up to four flashbang grenades, and they're being 
 tossed left and right in some matches. As you'd expect, these can temporarily blind you and make 
 you pretty helpless. Then there are the tear-gas grenades that make your vision swim like you're 
 in a drug-induced daze. Tear gas can easily be countered by a gas mask, which limits your stamina 
 due to the difficulty of breathing through it, but the thick, yellowish clouds are still useful 
 for providing concealment, and because of that, thick, yellowish clouds appear in any contested 
 area now.     

  Special Forces also introduces night-vision goggles, though these can be used only on the handful 
 of night-based levels in the expansion, since they're unavailable in daytime missions. Night vision 
 is something of a double-edged sword, as the developers are trying to go for "realistic" night-vision 
 effects. Since night vision works by amplifying ambient light (such as moonlight) , if you come 
 upon a brightly lit area, the goggles overamplify that light, and it becomes impossible to see 
 anything. This balances out the use of the goggles in the game, though it does raise some interesting 
 issues about not being able to shoot out lights.  

          Night vision is cool in the few levels that it's used, such as this nighttime airfield 
 assault.     

  Though there's an emphasis on infantry combat, there are several new vehicles in Special Forces, 
 including a Jet Ski, an ATV, and several new types of wheeled vehicles, including junked-out cars 
 and technicals (pickup trucks with heavy machine guns mounted in their beds) . The Jet Ski and ATV 
 are a bit gimmicky at first, but you'll quickly discover that they're an excellent way to zip around 
 the map, provided you don't slam into anything. There's also a sense that there's less emphasis 
 on vehicles overpowering the levels, as they can do in some Battlefield 2 maps. There are fewer 
 tanks and jets and more light vehicles and transports.  

  While Special Forces features a single-player mode, it offers no improvements over the single-player 
 found in Battlefield 2. For some reason, only six of the game's eight levels are available in single-player, 
 and they're all limited to the 16-player map variant. Single-player is just like multiplayer in 
 terms of gameplay, only with bots instead of real human players, and the bot artificial intelligence 
 is a mix of both smart and brain-dead. At this point, single-player is useful only for familiarizing 
 yourself with the levels, and since two of the levels are unplayable in single-player, it's not 
 even that helpful.  

  With the heavy focus on infantry, the role of squads and teamwork is more important than ever, 
 as an organized squad can easily overwhelm a handful of defenders, and an organized team can be 
 absolutely unstoppable. With that said, the same issues regarding teamwork that appeared in Battlefield 
 2 are present in the expansion. Mainly, you're going to have to look for a good dedicated server 
 that features teamwork, because the vast majority of servers are a big free-for-all where players 
 join and run around uncoordinated the entire time. Once again, the built-in voice communication 
 in Special Forces is a nice touch, but only if people use it. Another big issue with the expansion 
 is that as good as some of the levels are, the sheer amount of action and number of players packed 
 into confined levels have a pretty detrimental effect on the frame rate. On a system that played 
 Battlefield 2 well, we constantly encountered significant drops in frame rate, especially when 
 there were lots of effects or players on the screen at once. And the expansion itself is a resource 
 hog, much more than the original game. The already long times from Battlefield 2 drag on for much 
 longer than before, as well as the data verification stage after loading ends.  

  Yet Special Forces is plagued with bigger issues. There are a slew of issues that are hampering 
 players from even installing the expansion. For instance, there's a required preinstallation patch 
 that requires 3GB of free hard drive space in order to install, and this is affecting some players 
 out there. We encountered a different error that prevented us from installing the patch on one 
 machine, even though we had tons of free hard drive space. An even bigger issue involves EA's new 
 digital distribution service -- there's a CD key issue preventing some users from playing the game 
 (EA has acknowledged this issue and is looking to fix it) . But even if you manage to install the 
 patch and then install the expansion successfully, you must install a second 280MB patch to get 
 the game up to date. All of this makes this feel like a product that was rushed out for the holidays. 

          You can battle aboard a US aircraft carrier, complete with a working aircraft elevator. 
     

  The pity is that while these technical issues will probably be addressed, they mar what is otherwise 
 an excellent expansion to one of the year's best action games. Special Forces delivers more of 
 the intense urban combat that fans of Battlefield 2 love, and there are a lot of cool moments in 
 the game, from the way you parachute into one level, to the intense and desperate firefights that 
 can erupt for control of a flag. If you love Battlefield 2, then the expansion is a no-brainer. 
 But there's plenty in here for newcomers to appreciate, as well. Just wait a while for EA to settle 
 out all the issues first.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (225 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Kevinmaxtor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 6:08 pm PT
Review:  BF2 SF is the best expansion pack in the BF2 category, because it adds another 7 unlock weapons 
 in the game giving you even more replay value for your money. It also gives you 4 extra maps to 
 work with as well as more of the urban combat maps, there is a very cool submarine map with the 
 addition of some night maps. There is also some new weapons like the RPG and the FAMAS. The night 
 vision goggles are the best in my opinion, followed my the grappling hook. Plus there are new vehicles 
 to play around with including trucks and a sedan, but the coolest is the ATV with the mounted SAWS. 
 There are 6 new fractions to play as including the SAS and US Navy SEALS, and insurgents. All in 
 all this expansion rises over Armored Fury and Euro Force get it of you have BF2, because like 
 i said in the title, it makes it so that you can crunch time until they release BF3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  Of the things that are inevitable, a Battlefield expansion ranks right up there with death, taxes 
 and the end of the world. Thankfully, Special Forces is more fun than the others on the list, although 
 it does have its own aggravations. The inclusion of elite military groups is more cosmetic than 
 anything else, and there are still problems with the server browser, but the new vehicles and new 
 maps are a welcome inclusion to what is already quite a solid multiplayer shooter. And the Brits 
 should be pleased to have their own SAS shouting British things like "Oi!" and "Cheers, mate!"
 
  
  And the maps actually having a pleasing variety to them -- no small feat, since there's only eight 
 to go around. They are mostly urban and always densely arranged, with more building interiors than 
 before, some of them quite extensive. Some of them don't feel much different from their BF2 counterparts, 
 which isn't necessarily a bad thing, and others are quite different. You'll defend the Iron Gator 
 as Navy SEALs, aboard a U. S. aircraft carrier with an impressively detailed and expansive interior. 
 The SEALs have no permanent spawn point, so it can get pretty intense. Meanwhile, the enemy can 
 keep on flowing out of their shore base. Granted, it's tough to force your way aboard an aircraft 
 carrier, but the enemy has boats, APCs, and jetskis to get them over, as well as several helicopters.
 
  You'll find that the Special Forces maps have generally fewer jets, and tanks for that matter. 
 I can understand why. It's nearly impossible to take down a jet, and tanks aren't far behind. If 
 you aren't within spitting distance and carrying either a mine or a package of C4, infantry is 
 toast. Grenades don't do it, shoulder-mounted rockets are slow and weak, and bullets will only 
 scratch the paint. The average tank has so much armor, in fact, and the -mounted shoulder rocket 
 launcher or RPG is so slow to reload and does so little damage, that it's possible for an engineer 
 to repair a tank faster than it's getting damaged. Even a direct hit from an artillery strike won't 
 do the job. You need high-grade explosives. As for jets those are just a pain in the butt. I don't 
 think I've ever actually downed one of those, and believe me, I've tried. You're better off using 
 surface-to-air armaments as ground defense.
  
  At any rate, I like the new maps. With a more concentrated battlefield, it's much more difficult 
 for some power jerk to flank your forces and steal a spawn point way in the back. On some maps, 
 you'll be faced with quite a gauntlet if you try that. The four-wheeler allows you to cross lots 
 of space in short amount of time, and it's less noticeable than the buggy, but it also leaves you 
 quite vulnerable and doesn't take much damage. New vehicles also include the technical (a pickup 
 truck with a machine gun mounted on the bed) , a six-wheeled buggy with multiple gun turrets, some 
 new helicopters, and another APC, this one with a tank cannon. However, the turret has very limited 
 vertical movement (as a tradeoff for its power) . I prefer the original APC because a passenger 
 can see out the windows and shoot at people. In the new one, I feel like a guy in a barrel tumbling 
 down a hill, unless I'm driving, that is.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: join993
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Weelll.. I bought this in a package with the regular BF2. Sure, I played SF for maybe a month and 
 had a good time with it, but then I discoverd more of the regular BF2.. It's really no big difference 
 between them, It's just some new maps and a new car or soo.. I don't think that there is any new 
 weapons.. There must be some but none that I discoverd, Yet. The new maps isn't that great ither, 
 It's just a few new maps, none that has any twist to it... Just get like Tampa Highway for the 
 base game. 
  
  If this game should be rate by the graphics, to compare it with the base game, Then this game actually 
 (if there is any difference at all) has bader graphics.. 
  
  This is all I have to say about this game, the difference is the maps, some guns, and a veichle 
 or 2.. If you're a real a hardcore BF2 fan then you should buy this. I never play this anymore.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Private_Adam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  In Special Forces you get to play as Navy Seal, British SAS, Russian Spetznaz, MEC Special Forces, 
 Rebel, and Insurgents. Each team that you play on has different voice, for example if you play 
 on Russian Spetznan then you will hear your teammates speak in Russian not in English. Just like 
 I said each team that you play on will speak different language.
  
  There are new nine vehicles included in this expansion pack for Battlefield 2. ATV, Jet Ski, Civilian 
 Car, Pickup Truck, HMMVW with TOW, Desert Raider, Forklift, Apache Longbow, MI-35, and BMP-3. The 
 Pickup Truck has a machine gun .50cal and there is also another machine gun on passenger. The HMMVW 
 has a TOW so you can destroy a tank from a HUMMVW. The ATV is only for one person so nobody except 
 you can ride in the ATV. Only person can ride the Jet sky, the Jet Sky is fast and it can get you 
 anywhere you want to. Desert Raider can have up to five people in it, there are three maching guns 
 on and the driver sits on the middle. The Civilian Car can have up to two people in it, the driver 
 sits on the front and the gunner sits on back, If you are the passenger then you can use your weapon 
 to shoot from vehicle. The Apache longbow is an awesome helicopter, it's easy to turn and it's 
 very easy to kill enemies with the rockets. The MI-35 is not easy helicopter to fly, it's also 
 a lot harder to kill enemies using the rockets. BMP-3 is like a tank but the armor is lighter and 
 it's easier to get killed by enemies.
  
  You can unlock five new weapons F2000, MP7, G36E, Scar L, MG36, L96A1, and P90 and four new tools 
 like, flash bang, zip line, Tear Gas, and Grappling Hook by just playing Special Forces. There 
 are also new awards that you can get. You can get ten new badges, nine new ribbons and six new 
 medals. 
  
  The Graphics, sound, and gameplay are exactly the same as Battlefield 2. If you enjoyed playing 
 Battlefield 2 then I highly recommend this expansion pack.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 30, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  If it wasnt for the original BF2 game this EP would sink right under.
  
  As in extra content you get quite a bit for your money, but still its not excellent. You get access 
 to new Army, Weapons and other things, may sound excellent but belive me its not all that.
  
  They introduced night time maps and there for night vision. First of all you cant see anything 
 in the dark, thats ok with me. You still cant even see anything much with your night vision on 
 its so bad. It helps a lot belive me but its just simply terrible. 
  
  Other than that and the numerous bugs and crashs just like the original BF2 game there isnt a lot 
 to shout about with this game. I really didnt enjoy it, give me BF2 anyday.
  
  Overall this is perfect for you if you loved BF2 and want more stuff for it, but if you was like 
 me, just an advridge passer by in the BF2 scene then this is not the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avals
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 1, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  So this is Battlefield 2, and this expansion of special forces.
  
  Add up 8 new maps.. and some special gears and weapons and vechicles and that's everything. NOTHING 
 special.
  
  If you want another 8 more maps in multiplayer, where actually even servers are very limited and 
 doubt whether you could find a server suitable for your pings and playable content, this is everything.
 
  
  I tryed only 4 hour in a month and fell asleep everything in the end.
  
  NO SINGLEPLAYER.. I know that battlefield don't focus on singleplayer, but couldn't they at least 
 provide a solid one?
  
  Minor improvement to the original game..
  
  It is almost the most boring expansion I have played so far.. congrulation to EA. Thanks again for 
 crapping battlefield series.. where I actually enjoy NONE after battlefield 2... where is that orgasm 
 in originals battlefield? 
  
  NO more.
  
  Graphic-7/10
  Gameplay-7/10
  Sound-6.5/10
  Value-2/10
  
  Overrall-6.5/10
  
  Let's see in battlefield 3, where it may 
 be a breakthrough using frostbite engine, we shall see.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE Battlefield 2. So of course I bought Special Forces, the expansion. And if you love BF2 
 then you need this.
  
  Well the gameplay hasnt changed at all- and I cant be bothered to explain the rules of Battlefield 
 so if you havent played any BF game and are reading this then sorry! Anyway, the main differences 
 are the new armies and weapons/items. There is the British SAS, the Russian Spetznaz, Rebels, and 
 2 of the original armies: USMC and MEC. Only the British SAS get 1 or 2 new guns and the Spetznaz 
 and rebels get exactly the same weapons as the MEC did in BF2 which is a shame but that's probably 
 similar to what the real Spetznaz use anyway. However, the focus isnt on guns, it's on items: there 
 are now flashbangs, grappling hooks, zipwires and tear gas which is really cool and makes infantry 
 combat so much more fun/cool than it was before. There's a few new vehicles like a Quadbike but 
 vehicle combat isnt the main focus of the expansion. Still, the infantry is top-notch and if you 
 hated constant ground and air vehicle battles then you'll most likely prefer Special Forces (being 
 killed on foot by jets and helicopters constantly is extremely frustrating in the original BF2 
 and this occurs a lot less in the expansion) . 
  
  There's about 8 new maps in the game- and like before you can only play 2 online and there is no 
 offline support for the 2. So there are 6 maps available in offline mode and 8 online. Each map 
 is generally smaller than the maps in BF2 which is good in some ways and bad in others. It just 
 depends if you prefer to fight on foot or in vehicles I guess. While each map looks impressive 
 like before, the maps here arent as nice-looking as BF2 because some are set at night forcing you 
 to use your nightvision goggles which is pretty cool and makes BF feel a lot different. There are 
 more urban-style maps in SF so there's more cover lying around. The graphics are still really good 
 at high settings but the maps just arent as beautiful as they were in BF2 because there just so 
 much darker and dingy.
  
  The sound is still the same, excellent as it was before. The biggest complaints about this game 
 is that it took so long for me to get it running- overall, before I could play the game properly 
 I must've spent around 1 hour and 20 minutes hours. First, before the game actually installed it 
 had to install and old 1.1 patch which took around 15 minutes for some reason, then the actualy 
 game instealled which didnt take long. Then I started up the game and logged in to my usual account 
 and found that there was only 1 server. This was because the game has to install that old patch 
 so I had a little go offline first. Next, I had to download the latest patch (I hadnt been bothered 
 to do this with BF2 because there was always a good few servers playing the map I wanted to play) . 
 Anyway, the size of the file for the latest patch is over 500MB and the fastest download time from 
 a website I could find was 30 minutes. So I waited for this THEN I had to install the patch which 
 took a good 20 minutes AND THEN I COULD FINALLY THE PLAY GAME. The loadtimes were long in BF2 and 
 here, they are even longer which is ridiculous if you ask me as it's basically the same game.
 
  
  Overall though, if you have the patience to get this game installed and running with lots of servers 
 then you'll really like the game. Every BF fan needs this game.
  
  Pros:
  + Excellent, improved infantry combat
  + Good new maps
  + Cool new items and vehicles
  + 
 Same great graphics and sound
  
  Cons:
  - Took me ages to get up and running
  - Even longer load times
  - Slight peformance issues at times
  - Still not as great as the 
 original BF2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatmy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  Live Long and Properous Battlefield 2
  
  10  4 = As before described in the main Battlefield 2.
  
  10  1.5 = UK SAS uses Land Rover, 
 merlin, Chinook and puma only and not hummer and black hawk. Unrealistic darkness where u cant 
 see a thing except night vision because computer darkness is total darkness where u cant see a 
 thing but actual, we still can see whitenoise darkness in total darkness. Appreciated, if this 
 expansion could be installed in the main Battlefield 2 rather than wasting time switching from 
 one to another mode of playing. Lack of Special Forces Mission game play such as Trap, ambush search 
 and rescue or recovery operation. LAG happened when too much actions occured. lack of use apache 
 and the hind. 
  
  10 + 5 = Great new fractions, new weapons, new maps and new toys of choice. Terrorist should be 
 included for making more fun in this game. More Foots warefare and less vehicle.
  
  10 - 4 - 1.5 + 5 = 9.5 That's favourite Battlefield 2 Special Forces! Hooah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: souljaboy_101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  this game is the expantion pack to this years battlefield 2 game for pc , in the expantion there 
 are now 8 ! new armys , seals , SAS, spetnaz , mec SF
  insergents (taliban) and rebels , there are now 8 new maps ans over 12 new weapons , this game 
 is good but has its let downs, like it is the loading can take a while and some servers are really 
 laggy , but over all , bf2 sf is one of the best online shooters ever.
  ...    ......... . . . .  
                                                           . . ...... ......... . . . . . . . . 
 . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunder350
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I was doubtful ever since reading about an expansion after the release of the original game, yet 
 EA/DICE were able to reel me in and stand curious and hopeful for a great expansion.
  
  The fact that the game is not entirely the same as its original, makes the expansion feel more 
 like a new game rather than a money grab for a couple new maps, and vehicles.
  
  A good layout of the maps, new weapons are awesome and provide new unlocks, too. The new armies 
 are nice, new maps are awesome (especially the nighttime ones) , zip lines are fun to use when your 
 on top of the tallest building and need get down fast, grapple hook is very useful aswell to get 
 on top of the buildings you once couldn't get to, and night vision is very useful when playing 
 on the night maps, also the tear gas is a nice way to clear a building, just shoot it in the door 
 or windows, go in with your mask on, and everyone be dropping dead from your guns. And if that 
 don't work, you always have your flash bangs. What they can't see, they can't hit.
  
  I recommend this expansion to those looking for a more close-combat game, and not so much for those 
 looking to jet-rape the game as there are no jets to fly.
  
  If you liked the original, and enjoy a great FPS based on squad tactics with an unusual amount 
 of available options, then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Special Forces are very excellent modern warfare expansion. Special Forces have 
 its good points like more unlocks for the battlefield 2 game itself, (example p90 and flash bombs) . 
 Tear gas in the game could be your advantage in the game, but it wasn't for me I always got caught 
 up with the stuff. Some of these maps playing at night were cool looking but a pain for me, most 
 maps you couldn't really see good at night with the night vision, (could be that I had a 3yr computer 
 at the time) . Anyways back to the game play the zip line could be fun in Special Forces but I fought 
 it was giving away your location. Also sometimes it wouldn't connect 50 percent of the time, (also 
 shot a guy with the line and zipped to his corpse) . Playing different nations than the U. S. was 
 the best I played mostly the brits. There were new vehicles that were added some good and some 
 death traps. the water-ski was okay and fast, but like some the worst vehicles in the game like 
 atv and citizen vehicles it didn't offer protection from bullets or any vehicle based weapon so 
 they were death traps. Some vehicles that were good were the hummer built with missile, the dune 
 type car that had helicopter mini guns and the slow but deadly Russian tank. Some of the enemies 
 of the game had some weak weapons that couldn't shoot good, (there anti tanks weapons looked more 
 like terrorist weapons, that's good) . that one map that had the navy seals start out on a sub was 
 cool, but it should of have some type of missile defense thing like the carriers had in battlefield 
 2 that would kept those enemies away.
  
  Overall this game can be a kick in the pants to some, but I thought they needed to fix some stuff 
 to make perfect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gedz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  "Battlefield 2: Special Forces" is a complimentary expansion to the original Battlefield 2. This 
 game is just as innovative as the original and in some aspects better than the original, in my 
 opinion. I thoroughly enjoyed this game. However, some elements ruined the game, such as loss of 
 connection during multiplayer and multiple crashes. This was extremely frustrating as if you look 
 beyond these factors; there is a potential classic here.
  
  The graphics are similar to the original. I couldn't see any real improvements to the original, 
 but having said that the graphics are still beautiful. The graphics really went well with the excellent 
 game play and sound effects.
  
  Again, like the original, the sound is simply stunning. The realism is unlike any other game I 
 have played. The sound of the tear gas was a nice touch. Even just putting on your night vision 
 sounded amazing as to when putting on your gas mask. I really loved the sound element in this game.
 
  
  The game play in this game was just awesome. I loved the focus on infantry fighting and urban warfare. 
 It was simply gripping. Battles in the night were my personal favourite. I loved this aspect of 
 the game play; it was just a great adrenaline rush, especially when the fighting gets intense. 
 The ability to communicate with teammates and to request for supplies and ammo are still available 
 which adds a nice element to this game.
  
  The vehicles in this game are quite... well, interesting. There are quad bikes available which I 
 liked. Quad biking is something I would love to try in real life, but for now this is as close 
 as I can get. Quad bikes are a nice touch in urban fighting, so I liked this. 
  
  The single-player in this expansion pack is very enjoyable. There are some nice maps available, 
 but in my opinion, not enough. This was a bit of a letdown for me, especially since there was only 
 one map with the US Navy SEALS. (I like playing as a Navy SEAL) . Again, there are literally endless 
 possibilities to how a user can approach each map which is excellent. I personally don't like having 
 a set direction to go in when playing games like this. I like to explore the battlefield an attack 
 the enemy from different directions.
  
  This game, like the original, is better played and enjoyed in multiplayer mode. This is where the 
 real action and fun begins. Having said that, it can be extremely frustrating when something "unexpected" 
 happens, such as loss of connection. I experienced this quite frequently, and it was frustrating 
 because this game has so much to offer. But if you are lucky to get around this, then there is 
 a great game to be enjoyed.
  
  "Battlefield 2: Special Forces" is a great game and an excellent addition to the original "Battlefield 
 2". Definitely worth a try and one the games out on the market that I would recommend. Once you 
 get around the flaws in this game, there is potential greatness to be enjoyed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: k-origin
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  This expansion includes so much more action than the original BF2 did. You get much more close-quarters 
 fighting, without losing the utility for snipers. BF2: SF is much more infantry based than vanilla 
 was, and includes the awesome features of the grapple hook and the zip-line.
  I loved this game, and got semi-addicted to it for about 3 months. Playing this online has been 
 the most fun I've gotten out of possibly any game.
  
  The ranking system from BF2 makes the game a lot more fun as well, as you aim to get high up, and 
 you can receive badges for doing things such as killing 12 people in one round with a certain kit.
 
  
  The addition of the SAS and Spetznas really enrich the game, and make this a worthwhile expansion 
 to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11mwmarshall
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  I have been playing the battlefiled games for a long time now. I started playing battlefiled when 
 1942 came out as a demo that I got in a magizine, so far all I have seen are improvments and I 
 started playing Special Forces about 2 years now and Battlefield 2 for about 2-3 years. SF is a 
 great addition, new maps and vehicles a plus and the only down fall is that once in awhile that 
 game crashes at random times but I have fixed this with a new graphics card and another 1 gig ram 
 moduel. I rate this game 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 Special Forces brings back the intense game play that Battlefield 2 had. You get 
 six new maps and a few new factions to play as.
  
  Special Forces delivers a bunch of cool new maps. There is one map were you are on a submarine 
 and you ether have to try and board the submarine or defend it. The biggest new character class 
 is the British which brings a bunch of cool new guns to Battlefield 2. This game is only an expansion 
 pack so it adds a few more levels to Battlefield 2 so it may not last long. But, most of the maps 
 are a lot of fun, and you will want to play them again and again.
  
  The graphics still look really good and there are a few improvements.
  
  The sound still sounds 
 very realistic. You still get the feelingg that you are in the middle of a battlefield.
  
  If you want more Battlefield 2 action then you should play Battlefield 2 Special Forces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't going to buy this game, because I thought that it was just going to be one of those expansion 
 packs that is fun for a while, but not worth it in the long run. I was wrong on this count. I first 
 played this game at a local game center, and I was very surprised. Instead of barely giving anything 
 to the game, you get so many new additions to the game, all of which contribute to making it great. 
 Also, you can be play on all of the servers from Battlefield 2, but you have the advantage of better 
 guns. Probably the best addition to this game would be its maps. For instance, the map Warlord 
 brings a whole new beginning to the team, with the SAS able to parachute into the first command 
 post from the start. This changes the beginning of the game, as the SAS team now has more options, 
 and they have more choice over where they can go. There are many more things that are worth mentioning, 
 but they are too numerous. Play the game for yourself and find out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coodename007
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  I personally think that the game is great for many reasons. Battlefield 2 Special Forces is the 
 gamers best Joice. As well as you can kill peoples you can have fun , spent time , relax , i find 
 the game as the game as possibilities. You are in war you are the soldier and thats you to decide 
 who is going to win or who is going to be killed. You have the firepower and you have the mind. 
 Go get a tank and burst a few rockets to a car or to a house. I find it amusing how many peoples 
 play it and they don't understand the real fun of the game. Most of the fun is in levels and how 
 to get them. Thank you for reading it and please don't be mean to each other (H) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beowulf2525
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 7, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Not very different from the original. Some cool new features and maps, but not enough 
 to make the game much better. The AI is still as dumb as ever, yet surprisingly hard on the maps 
 with night vision. They apparently dont need it to shoot you in pitch black. Not very enjoyable. 
 As with the original BF2, it's best played on the internet with a good microphone.
  
  Graphics: Simply put, nothing has changed. Everything has the same appearance and looks. But it's 
 an expansion pack. Not much ever changes with them.
  
  Sound: As with the graphics, nothing has changed except the new guns and vehicles. Those have the 
 new sounds obviously. Otherwise nothing is different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migsten
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 10, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  This expansion pack is awesome. The game play is exactly the same as the original BF2. Special 
 Forces is more of a challenge. You need to stay fully alert in order to stay alive because it is 
 a lot easier to die in this one. One thing that really made me happy was that when you rank you 
 get to choose 2 new weapons rather then just one. When I got this game I was a first sergeant and 
 right after I got finished playing just one on line game and went back to BF-HQ, I automatically 
 got to choose 6 new weapons. There are 2 new attack helicopters which are fun to fly because they 
 fly differently then the 2 on the original BF2. There are some new weapons but only for the armies 
 that did not exist on the original such as the Insurgents and Rebels.
  There were only a few things that were on this game that I did not like.
  1. You can not use 
 the 2nd class of upgraded weapons.
  2. The zip line is a little broken. You have to be careful where you shoot from because the stand 
 that appears next to you when u shoot the zip line can push you off an edge if you do not shoot 
 in a safe place.
  Those were the only things that actually made me mad other then that though this is a very cool 
 game. It's very tactical and you need more strategy to play this game which is very cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drenomeir
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  The game draws players to spend hours of irratating fun. As long as you watch your back (and your 
 head) it will be hard for a person to snipe you. I think the downfalls are the the server drops, 
 the screen spasing, and (if you dont have a super fast internet) the looooonnnnnngggg load times. 
 I sometimes think that it could be better if people arent so flippin stupid when it comes to getting 
 badges. Some guy from my team was shoting me because i was in a solitary area in a tank to get 
 a timed badge instead of fighting! If you agree with me than im gonna like you. P. S. i dont get 
 the learning curve so pay no attention to that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonicBH
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 29, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I think somewhere out there, there's a checklist that all developers of first-person shooters go 
 by. Such as Have a stealth segment in the game even if the engine isn't made for it , Have vehicles 
 for the player to drive and Work with A. I. buddies to complete objectives. Chances are, another 
 one on that list is Make an expansion pack with new features on the core game, since we're kinda 
 lazy or short on time to put it in said core game. Battlefield 2: Special Forces marks another 
 item off that checklist of FPS guidelines.
  
  Special Forces is, naturally, an expansion pack for the immensely popular Battlefield 2. Released 
 five months after the original game, Special Forces adds a few new wrinkles to the Battlefield 
 2 formula, and takes a slightly different approach to Battlefield. It's supposed to be, in theory, 
 a more tactical experience of the game. It adds a few new maps, weapons, and vehicles among other 
 little quirks.
  
  Instead of the three factions in Battlefield 2 (The USMC, the Middle Eastern Coalition and the 
 People's Liberation Army of China) , there are six new factions in this expansion: The US Navy Seals, 
 the MEC Special Forces, British SAS, Spetsnaz, Rebels and Insurgents. While you can tell some of 
 the teams are friendly (SAS, Navy Seals) and which are hostile (Rebels, Insurgents, MEC SF) , the 
 Spetsnaz is apparently bipolar in their approach. In two maps, Surge and Mass Destruction, they're 
 stopping attacks from Rebels. Yet in another map, Ghost Town, they're charging against the SAS. 
 It's a bit baffling. While there are only eight maps in this particular expansion, they're all 
 pretty varied. Like how there are maps at night. Yes. Three of the eight Special Forces' maps ( 
 Night Flight , Leviathan and Devil's Perch ) take place in a nighttime setting. I personally wish 
 that they had made more of the maps that way, but three out of eight ain't bad. Because of the 
 fact that it's a breath of fresh air as opposed to seeing the same old dusty maps all the time.
 
  
  The seven familiar Battlefield 2 classes each have new tools to work with. For instance, the Sniper 
 and Special Forces now get a crossbow that they can use to make a makeshift zip line. Assault and 
 Anti-tank now get a grappling hook, which is great for getting up into high places. Assault players 
 also get flashbang grenades, which come in handy in some places, and Support gets a tear gas grenade 
 launcher. All classes also get nightvision goggles (which can only be used in the aforementioned 
 night maps) and a gas mask to circumvent tear gas. There are also a plentiful number of new weapons 
 in the game, for most of the classes, which makes playing a little bit different. And if you have 
 any unlocks from Battlefield 2, they carry over here.
  
  Speaking of unlocks, Special Forces has an additional unlock for each class (bumping up the unlocks 
 to two per class) , but there's a catch: You must unlock the Battlefield 2 unlock before you can 
 unlock the Special Forces unlock. For instance, you can't unlock the F2000 for the Assault class 
 in Special Forces if you haven't unlocked the G3 for the Assault class in Battlefield 2 first. 
 In addition, you'll get extra unlocking opportunities when playing Special Forces on an existing 
 Battlefield 2 account. Plus, if that wasn't good enough, you can take your Special Forces unlocks 
 to the main Battlefield 2 game. And since this is an expansion, there are new badges and ribbons 
 to acquire here, which brings incentive to play this expansion over and over again.
  
  In terms of new vehicles, there are single-man vehicles such as a jet ski and an ATV, to cars with 
 machine gun emplacements like a pickup truck and a Desert Raider , this four-person capacity car 
 with three machine gun emplacements. It looks silly, but is fun as hell to drive with three machine 
 guns shooting up the place. However, while Special Forces sounds like an exceptional expansion, 
 it's hampered by things that were in Battlefield 2 that bring the whole expansion down: Weak single 
 player, same derivative Conquest mode, ungodly long load times, game slowdown and freezing. It 
 may seem like this may not be a big deal, but for a person who owns a computer that definitely 
 exceeds minimum requirements, this is inexcusable.
  
  The voice acting in the game is okay. While some of the factions just recycle voice clips from 
 Battlefield 2, the new voices are decent and hold some form of vigor in delivery. Although it has 
 the same problems as Battlefield 2 in which there's only 2-3 types of the same speech, so repetition 
 sets in real quick. Other than that, the game features little new sound or music.
  
  Special Forces is a good expansion pack. New factions, new maps, new vehicles, and new unlocks. 
 Oddly enough, there are not many players who play this expansion. If you own Battlefield 2, it 
 doesn't hurt to get Special Forces only because it adds enough new features to maybe warrant an 
 occasional return play.
  
  Pros: New maps, factions, vehicles and unlocks, maps at night.
  Cons: Problems in Battlefield 
 2 creep up in this expansion (slowdowns, long load times) , No new game play modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkthewindow
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 7, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  The main attraction to being a PC gamer is two things, expansion packs and mods. The latter is 
 good due to its cost (free) but the former can a sometimes just be an excuse for publishers to 
 make you spend more money on a bad game. Don't get me wrong, Battlefield 2 is a great game-I gave 
 it 9.7, but many game studioes make a crap game, and then make you buy an expansion pack to add 
 on to it. Or, on the other end of the spectrum, we have the give you a great game, and then make 
 you pay for a few useless, but still good features (Civ 3 PTW.)
  
  Anyway, enough with my pointless ranting and on with the review. Before reading this, I assume 
 you have Battlefield 2, and have played it, because Special Forces is an expansion pack, not a 
 new game.
  
  The gameplay in Special Forces is fantastic-as good as the base game. Specal Forces plays the same 
 as Battlefield 2, but there are some new weapons, such as tear gas and flashbangs, and new items, 
 such as grappling hooks and zip lines. Also, the classic RPG-7 has been re-added, which is great, 
 as it is a great weapon :) .
  
  The new items are great, but they do not change the gameplay completly, the just reshape it. Using 
 grappling hooks and zip lines, you can create new tactics. The armies in Special Forces are the 
 US Navy SEALS, the MEC: SF, Insergents, Rebles, Spatnez (Russian SF) and British SAS.
  
  The only bad thing is the maps. In Single Player, there are only seven maps, there are a few more 
 in multiplayer, but not much. The maps are well designed, and are fun (in one map, you play as 
 British SAS (or Insergents) defending\attacking an airport... At night, with nightvision.) But, 
 with only seven maps, you can only expect to be playing it for a short time.
  
  The graphics are as good as Battlefeild 2. Which is good, as the Battlefield 2 graphics where perfect 
 for the time. But, now, Specal Forces's graphics contain no new effects or improvements. The new 
 wepons look as good as the ones in Battlefield 2, though. The sound is as good as the sound in 
 Battlefield 2, but that is the thing. No improvements here.
  
  The game is great value, especally if you can get it cheap. The new maps add roughly 30-50 hours 
 of playing time, perhaps more if you like it more then I do.
  
  In conculsion, Battlefield 2 Special Forces is a great expansion pack, but not fantastic in anyway. 
 It is still fun, and if anything, it will get you playing Battlefield 2 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shegevara
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 16, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Well, i didn't expect such a good game from battlefield 2. I'm reviewing it too, because i bought 
 deluxe edition. Well anyway, it amazed me. Really cool. The whole gameplay, value graphics. Those 
 were really fantastic. Only big minus is the loading time. Yes I know, my graphics card sucks, 
 but all other is ok. But still the loading time is so long. The game itself is very similar to 
 others. I personally preferred the conquest. Where you win if you hold more than half of flags. 
 And there are is so called singleplayer where the AI replaces the humans. It's good for starters. 
 The vechiles, and stuff that make you not get bored for quite a while. Game is indeed very well 
 made, interface good, and all stuff is really good. Just some minor bugs that got to be changed. 
 All other is great.
  
  Absolutely a must-buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 20, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 Special Forces is the first expansion pack for Battlefield 2. Although it sticks 
 to the same good old Battlefield 2 formula, there are a few new twists and a new theme that give 
 this game plenty of reason to play, yet the game also carries a horde of bugs that can really hamper 
 the overall experience. It was quite convenient that the deluxe edition that I bought included 
 this. I must say that I had a pretty good experience with this game overall.
  
  Just like Battlefield 2, there is no story to this game. Graphics- 9/10
  There really has been 
 no addition made to the graphics, so I really have nothing to add. The game still does look great 
 and there really is no frame rate slowdown. The game is still run on the Battlefield 2 engine which 
 still looks great. Other than that however, theres really nothing more.
  
  Sound- 10/10
  Still the same great old sound from Battlefield 2. Theres really no new addition here. Everything 
 still sounds the same mostly and there is a different language for each faction.
  
  Gameplay- 7/10
  The same gameplay from Battlefield 2 is still here, except in a new theme: Special 
 Forces. Players can choose to play as the warring faction special forces. You can play as the U. S. 
 Navy Seals, the soviet Spetsnaz, the French GIGN and more. There are a few new weapons such as 
 the grappling hook, night vision goggles, zip line crossbow, and gasmask. Other than that however, 
 everything is still pretty much the same.
  
  The bad part is this: There are a horde of show stopping bugs than can prevent players from even 
 playing the game. Again, there have hardly been any new additions added on, and the online multiplayer 
 mode still has the same problems. There are hardly any maps, or new content which dont add much 
 replay value to this game. In the end, if you can look past these problems, Battlefield 2 Special 
 Forces can be an enjoyable experience. For some people however, the expansion packs problems will 
 keep them away. That said, its still a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curt_leon
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 20, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting more from DICE, but it's another typical EA exp pack. The first game itself is 
 my favorite multiplayer FPS to date, but this? This is another abomination churned out by the gamers 
 worst nightmare, EA. I love the companies who aren't even partnered with ea in any way, they make 
 quality games, take valve for instance, half-life 2 turned out to be an instant classic while EA's 
 games are just quickies make to milk out money from fans of XXX series. Gameplay, same as BF2, 
 it just gives you 6 new teams barely different from eachother, and to make up with that they give 
 two, Only TWO teams some free unlock weapons as the base weapon, bah, I want new weapons, not unlocks 
 that were in the original game itself. The graphics don't need much 'splainin, same. sound, same. 
 for 20$ it's not even worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  The Good: (expansion) I thought I would get away from the vehicle spawn killing, but no. This game 
 is fun and looks great. The controls are very smooth and driving or piloting the vehicles is seemless 
 and fun.
  The Bad: Many bugs and glitches pull this game down. It could have been so much more than it is. 
 SP is a waste and not worth playing. MP is filled with cheaters and hackers that ruin all online 
 games for true PC gamers.
  
  Gameplay:8.5
  Graphics:8.5
  Sound:8.0
  Value:8.0
  Tilt:8.0
  Singleplayer:7.0
  Multiplayer:8.0
  
  Conclusion: Same old Same old... All in all 
 this game started out strong but left me uninstalling it in the end. If you don't mind putting 
 up with hackers, long loading times, bugs/glitches, exploits, bad lag/fps and getting frustrated 
 by spawn campers then this is the game for you. It's not worth my time or a place on my hard drive. 
 I wanted to really love this game but when you would rather pull your hair out in frustration than 
 get any pleasure from playing a game it's time to say goodbye. This game has some very good points, 
 thats why it got a GREAT from me but in the end, it's a waste of money imo.
  
  My Score:8.0 Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerang00
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game just for the unlocks on BF2!! The unlocks are totally worth it!! Am a big sniper 
 fan and the silenced sniper gun is incredible. The flash bang is something else too. The gripping 
 hooks are pretty hard to use at first but then easy to get a hang on!! Good game but the original 
 BF2 is way better!!! It's a booster pack indeed!!! Just adds on to the original. Some of the maps 
 a re a lil clogged and some of the new vehicles are pretty weird. Not a big fan!!!
  
  I bought this game just for the unlocks on BF2!! The unlocks are totally worth it!! Am a big sniper 
 fan and the silenced sniper gun is incredible. The flash bang is something else too. The gripping 
 hooks are pretty hard to use at first but then easy to get a hang on!! Good game but the original 
 BF2 is way better!!! It's a booster pack indeed!!! Just adds on to the original. Some of the maps 
 a re a lil clogged and some of the new vehicles are pretty weird. Not a big fan!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Special Forces is one game that everyone who plays Battlefield 2 fans need.
  
  Gameplay: I like the zipline and grappling hook. This makes it very fun. Although the gameplay 
 is the same it doesn't get any worse. Very addicting and fun
  
  Graphics: The graphics still look nice even though they are the same as the original.
  
  Sound: 
 Still great. One of the best things about Battlefield 2
  
  Value: Worth it for twenty bucks. Although only five maps still worth getting just for the grappling 
 hook and zipline.
  
  Tilt: Same as before. No new gameplay features. Still worth checking out because of new maps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sars99
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  The perfect expansion to an already superb game. The original BF2 brought us large scale combat 
 that had rarely been done before, and to quite good standards. This expansion cuts down a bit on 
 size in the most part, which is good as it creates a new style of gameplay that once mastered can 
 make you one hell of a killing machine on the regular game. So the maps are alot smaller and alot 
 more dense, out of the 8 new ones 5 concentrate on very CQC in mostly towns, with a few unique 
 ones such as iron gator which sees the Navy Seals defend a carrier from the fictional MEC special 
 forces, and also between the Seals and MEC: SF on devils perch which is a very good night map with 
 lots of hiding places.
  
  That last line brings me onto this. The new gadgets to the infantry mans disposal. Starting with 
 your new transport, the zip line, available to the spec-ops and sniper classes. This allows you 
 to get from very high places to low places extremely quickly. So for a compromised sniper this 
 tool becomes essential for that quick and nifty get away. For the spec-ops player that is good 
 with teamwork can give a one-way ticket to the next enemy flag allow his teammates to use it then 
 going down himself before retrieving it. Your second new transport tool is the grappling hook, 
 available to the assault and anti-tank classes. As assualt this allows you to get onto buildings 
 previously unaccessible, giving good advantage points to fire a nade launcher down on top of enemy 
 troops. And anti-tankers can get up high for a great spot at hitting armour, which makes the tanks 
 and APCs a less dominant force, because they can get hit from all angles and all places. Finally 
 are your auxiliary tools, which are flash bangs for assualt and tear gas grenades for support (you 
 also get a gas mask) and night vision (if you don't like carrots) . The flash bang is a killer, 
 if you happen to be unfortunate enough to look at it when it goes off, then get ready to respawn 
 as i have been blinded for up to 25 seconds, even worse is having night vision on and getting flashed, 
 if this happens make yourself a coffee/tea, because you'll be blind for a long time. Tear gas can 
 be great for two things: firstly it can be used as a small smoke shield for an infantry advance. 
 While secondly it causes people (including friendlies) to cough and slutter, making them unable 
 to sprint and then screen goes all wavy (making shooting with ironsights nigh-on-impossible) , however 
 all soldiers are equipped with the handy gas mask that stops all the above effects but limits sight 
 (and also you can have NV and your gas mask on at the same time) .
  
  There are alot more factions then the orignal, you have: the british SAS, US navy seals, insurgents, 
 MEC special forces, Russian Spetsnaz and (russian) rebels. Each of them are fielded in battles 
 that you could say are fairly realistic to modern day covert-ops. Warlord for instance sees the 
 SAS verses al-queda like insurgents in a fight for a 'warlords' palace located in a small urban 
 environment, and Mass Destruction which sees a small chemical plant being restarted by teh rebels 
 with spetsnaz forces moving in to stop them. Along with the new factions are new arsenals both 
 hand held and vehicles. The SAS get the most new guns which can be unlocked (like normal unlocks) 
 for the original, they are the new gen rifles and such like the FN F2000 and G-36 series. The navy 
 seals have alot of guns in common with the USMC from BF2, but have the new FN scar-l (another unlockable) 
 and scar-h for spec-ops and assualt. Then sadly the rest have basically the same load outs, MEC: SF 
 is the same as the MEC except they have the AK-47 for medic and no GP-30 on the assualt's AK-101. 
 The spetsnaz are the same as the MEC from BF2, no different, which is a shame as they could have 
 had lots of possibilities for new weapons. The insurgents and rebels have the same as MEC except 
 the anti-tank get RPG-7's instead of Eryx's (and boy do i love the RPG an awesome addition, if 
 only i could unlock it for BF2 *sighs* ) . The vehicles are the same, no new tanks, no new APC's 
 (except for the BMP-8 which is a tank/apc hybrid) , now new heavy transports, or transport choppers. 
 But you do get the awesome AH-64 apache and the Mi-35 Hind both of which handle completely different 
 from the normal choppers, they have more powerful rocket pods but aren't as easy to fling around 
 (you wont be doing barrel rolls in either of them) , and the hind feels like your flying an floating 
 elephant. Some things that should have been done: give the SAS the challenger and warrior. and 
 give the insurgents older model tanks (like the T-60 or 72 for example) .
  
  all in all though for the extra &pound;15 it is worth it for harder, faster more infantry based 
 gameplay. With 8 new brilliantly balanced maps, and new weapons (and toys) and some new vehicles. 
 If you have BF2 and like then defiantly buy this add-on. or if you have neither get the deluxe 
 pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilGenius_3
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 4, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  You get an extra 14 weapons which are much better than the original ones. There are 8 new maps 
 with intensive squad player, which is one of my favourite aspects of Battlefield 2. The squad play 
 is also boosted by the addtion of ziplines and grappling hooks which making transversing the cities 
 much easier, and makes for some good snipering positions.
  
  The only problem I have is the very unoriginal vehicles, some of which look pretty crazy (though 
 they are sometimes useful) . Also though the addition of tear gas and masks are welcome they really 
 don't effect the gameplay.
  
  All in all a very good game with exellent value! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korlis612
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 6, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  The best reason to get this expansion is to have access to more unlocks. That's about it. If such 
 a thing is possible, it is even more unstable than the base game, and considerably less polished. 
 Some of the maps have some pretty interesting designs, and there are six armies over the three 
 in regular Battlefield 2, but as they share a lot of the same weaponry you'll find that not a lot 
 feels new or different between them. Some of the Special Forces armies also tote powerful weaponry 
 from the very beginning that is so good as to be considered an unlock in BF2, yet they're pitted 
 against armies with much more basic arms, leading to some unbalanced fights. The grappling hook, 
 tear gas and zipline are all nice additions, but it would have been nice to get those in BF2, since 
 so few people seem to play the expansion that it's much more difficult to find a good server. Like 
 the smaller plugins, Euro Force and Armoured Fury, Special Forces seems to have fractured the player 
 base. Unlike those, though, at least you can still play on the regular servers and benefit, slimly, 
 from owning the expansion.
  
  Oh, and it loses points in sound for the ridiculous British accents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattdcrocks
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the 1st bf2 then you will have a ball with this one. You get about 8-10 new maps I 
 think i have only played on a few. You get a grappling hook that you can use to climb almost any 
 building you see. You get some new awsome vehicles. My favorite is the atv you go so fast in that 
 thing its not even funny. You also get to play with about 4 new armys. The maps are great no matter 
 what class you play on. This game is really fun to play with. If you liked bf2 pick this 1 up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueAtlas
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 1:56 am PT
Review:  This is the first expansion pack for an already amazing game. I really like the new toys the folks 
 over at EA have included in this game. The new zipline has saved me a few times during combat. 
 New additions also include new teams and weapons. The night vision goggles however to me seem a 
 little dumb. There are about two or three maps that are set in the dark and sometimes require to 
 put those things on. I for one feel that I see my surroundings much better without those silly 
 things on. Overall though this expansion pack is worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  If there was one major plus with a reason to get Specical Forces would be the weapons themselves. 
 These weapons do offer the luxury for the user to be able to use new kits in standard BF2multiplayer.
 
  
  Mind you, these weapons are not uber, and offers only a different way to eliminate your adversary. 
 Which some do have the belief thse weapons offer a unfair advantage, ( which pretty much is a farce) .
 
  
  In the multiplayer of Special Forces, The user is given a couple of night battles requiring the 
 use of night vision, and there even some areas that require the usage of zip-lines, and grappling 
 hooks to traverse the terrain. Vehicles offered are a little sparse, the Apache, and Hind-D are 
 not seen to much, and most of the vehicles are light variants.
  
  After awhile, the expansion may offer alot, but after awhile I started feeling that most of the 
 offerings were nothing more than gimmicks.
  
  Graphics, Sound and Gameplay are pretty much unchanged in the transition you do have nighttime 
 battles, but other than that it is the same nice graphics to go with the sound offerred. One peeve 
 is still there, the shoddy hit detection and weapons physics. Which really needs an overhaul.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamermon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 24, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game mostly for the weapons. But a little for the maps and new nations and kit stuff 
 (grapling hook, line bow, tear gas) and the new vehicles\helis. Also it is true that for every 
 rank you get until a certian point where u cant unlock anymore, you do u get 2 weapon unlocks, 
 plus for all the unlockable weapons that u could have gotton had u had SF before u got Lance Corpral 
 (first weapon unlock) it gives u a bonus. For such I bought it when I got Gunnery Sergeant and 
 it gave me 2 unlocks for gunnery sergeant, then FOUR more! Which is 1 extra for Lance Corpral, 
 Corpral, Sergeant, and Staff Sergeant! But the downside is that some maps are actually harder for 
 a video card to produce, especialy the ones where u go inside building\boats. Liek the iron gater. 
 I can't produce it smoothly because of all the objects it has i nthe carrier and the extra lighting 
 coming off the objects. Plus I can't really play the night maps. Over all I give it a 8.9 since 
 i can't see how good the grahics are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 24, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  Though It is in fact a great expansion to a near perfect shooter, Dice decided to leave the SP 
 community in the cold AGAIN! Although on SP it has coold new weapons, interesting new forces & 
 great little additions, the whole 16 bot SP thing it your limit SP players. The exp. doesnt have 
 any real mod support like the original, this playing it feel a little empty at times, though you 
 can enjoy it! Just get it used or for a cheaper price since its really only worth about 10-20 for 
 sp players (unless you dont mind the 16bot maps/fighting) . Overall impressive and enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glass_flame
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 17, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  First off, this is an insanely buggy expansion. The sound sometimes turns off and the framerate 
 can get horrendous. And it often does, especially with night vision.
  The good news is, this game has amazing gameplay. I've spent countless hours ziplining around Ghost 
 Town or crawling around Devil's Perch, cracking headshots wherever I go. 
  There are tons of secret places to explore in the levels, and the addition of the zipline and grappling 
 hook make this even better. plus, there's a little more diversity in the weapons, which helps. 
 the new vehicles mainly don't add much, but the ATV in particular is a good replacement for the 
 beloved dune buggy. (no pun intended)
  All in all, if you need a little more than Battlefield 2, give this a spin. It's well worth your 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 16, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  BF2 is the BEST expansion pack avaible to BF2 so far because it adds several new maps, several 
 new armies, and some new weapons and other fun new things to use. It might be more expensive than 
 the booster packs relased for BF2 but it is worth the cost because it has more to offer than the 
 booster packs. Once again the updates with EA can conflict with BF2 updates and you still have 
 a wait time of a few minutes and more steep hardware requirments to run the game. Otherwise it 
 is a good expansion pack. My word: "Buy this one before you buy any other booster packs for BF2." 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 10, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Yes..
  
  Special Forces gives plenty of extra items to mess around with, my favourite, hook grabber and 
 long rope thing, really cool.
  
  The maps are really good, i love "warlord", it amazing for getting points on =)
  
  I do think 
 at first when Special Forces came out, it was rushed and bugs were everywhere, there still are 
 which i will explain later on in the is passage. Now, the major bugs for 'Special Forces' are now 
 fixed since EA Games decided it should be done
  
  But, the main problem of the whole of BF2 and its expansions is the lame crashing
  
  its a 
 very annoyed bug which EA Games still havent fixed even after the patch that said it had.
  
  This bug, crashes your computer when either loading a server right till the end, after 5 mins 
 of loading u crash and go back to desktop
  
  So... loading game backup takes 5 mins ( plus login 5 mins ) = 10 misn
  
  If your lucky, load 
 another game up, taking 5 mins praying you won't crash.
  
  But hey, this stuff wasnt out when BF2 originally came out, since EA Games have been rushing things 
 along, you get this stuff, which sometimes after maybe 3 - 5 times of trying i give up, wasting 
 1 hr , yes !! 1 HOUR
  
  btw.. its everyone else as well, even my clanmates, so its not just me.
  
  I think though the 
 nexts patch should solve this, since this bug makes game extremely frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIGAKILL
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This expansion pack is awesome. The game play is exactly the same as the original BF2. 
  Special Forces is more of a challenge. You need to stay fully alert in order to stay alive because 
 it is a lot easier to die in this one. One thing that really made me happy was that when you rank 
 you get to choose 2 new weapons rather then just one. When I got this game I was a first sergeant 
 and right after I got finished playing just one on line game and went back to BFHQ, I automatically 
 got to choose 6 new weapons. There are 2 new attack helicopters which are fun to fly because they 
 fly differently then the 2 on the original BF2. There are some new weapons but only for the armies 
 that did not exist on the original such as the Insurgents and Rebels.
  There were only a few things that were on this game that I did not like.
  1. You can not use 
 the 2nd class of upgraded weapons.
  2. The zip line is a little broken. You have to be careful where you shoot from because the stand 
 that appears next to you when u shoot the zip line can push you off an edge if you do not shoot 
 in a safe place.
  Those were the only things that actually made me mad other then that though this is a very cool 
 game. It's very tactical and you need more strategy to play this game which is very cool.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalionix
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  I rather like the SF upgrade. Although many do not play the night maps for some reason, I do like 
 the different tools you get to use. Flash bangs and tear gas, zip lines, grappling hooks, that's 
 some fun stuff right there. Just be standing on a building and see someone below, throw a flash 
 bang and zip down and waste them. I also like the new maps, alot of interesting places to hide 
 and snipe from. There are also new vehicles and with the fixes they have been publishing, it is 
 becoming more stable. The best improvment could possibly be the effect of armor. It seems it has 
 become more effective since BF2. All-in-all, this game is a deffinate must to at least try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alenfishman
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  This expansion was a lot of fun it added a lot of things that I really liked, but for some reason 
 it just want that popular. Based on what I think about Battlefield 2 this expansion added a lot 
 more of a fun factor to it. I really liked the grappling hocks and gas grenades, they made the 
 game more interesting. The zip line is also great made the special forces more special. I only 
 wish I had more people I knew to play with, cuz would have a lot more fun with these games. They 
 also needed way more maps to this game, i got sick of the maps quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 6, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2; one of the greatest games of all time... but now, it just got better. Battlefield 
 2: Special Forces is a very fun, addicting and challenging game that will keep you on your toes 
 playing against thousands of people online.
  
  This game adds a whole new features such as six new forces, yeah six. Navy Seals, British SAS, 
 Russian Spetznas, MEC Special Forces, Rebel groups and Insurgents, each with their own unique arsenal 
 and tactics. When playing as the MEC, the rocket launcher thing is replaced with a new weapon, 
 the RPG -7, my personal favorite weapon.
  
  EIght new maps from dark night maps to desert city maps to a military sea base and even to an aircraft 
 carrier [one of my favorites] . The new fewatures include night vission, some zip-lines, grappling 
 hooks, flash bangs and some tear gas which rocks like no other.
  
  The gameplay is just like Battlefield 2 just not as unbalanced as the original. On most, or all 
 the maps, everything is pretty balanced. The multiplayer can get crazy sometimes when you play 
 up to 64 players and you have helicopters flying around, gunfire everywhere; it is fun as hell. 
 The gameplay is addicting as the original also. You will lose sleep trying to rank up and get weapon 
 unlocks along with badges and ribbons and medals.
  
  There is around ten new vehicles in the game, including the fast and hard to shoot ATV and the 
 desert raider and the apache longbow. All this vehicles play an important role in the game. Such 
 as, if you want to be the first to a flag, get on a ATV and hall ass.
  
  The graphics and sound are still as good as Battlefield 2. It is absolutely stunning and graphically 
 beautiful. The visuals and sound of everything is superb. From the water to the detail of the buildings 
 and weapons, all are superb. 
  
  With the newest patch out now, a new mode is out that is co-op. A very exciting and fun mode to 
 mess around with and have fun with. You can create a local-server and just play byself or with 
 a friend by lan and you can choose how many bots you want and how hard the difficulty is for them.
 
  
  Overall, a very beautiful and stunning expansion to an already amazing game. For the low price 
 of 19.99, it is definately worth the price of over 100 or more hours os addictive multiplayer gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctaStrangelov
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 5, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Highs: Great new maps, new cool gadgets, adds new things to the origenal (only if you get this 
 one two) , same awesome gameplay
  
  Lows: Longer loading tahn origenal (if possible) , lack of anti-air implacments makes helicopters 
 a major pain, new countries use to many of the same weapons, British are overpowered. (none of 
 these are really big)
  
  BattleField 2 is the best game ever. Period. The expainsion to BattleField Two is the best expainsion 
 ever.
  
  Now the game gives us lots of new toys, support gunners now have tear gas which makes thier job 
 of running into the fray and openning up a can of whup ass even easier (though not annoying if 
 you are hit with it due to gas masks) , assualt now gets flah bangs, more potent than gas but not 
 as widespread. Assualt (as well as anti-tank) also gets grappiling hooks, which would be more useful 
 if they were for snipers. But snipers due get the best one: the zip line, which is way more useful 
 if you are a SOCOM. Also buying this allows you to unlock the better weapons unique to this game 
 and bring them back the regular BF2.
  
  The new maps are really good. The four best are Mass Destruction (Spetsnaz verus Chachyan Rebels 
 in a factory complex) , Iorn Gator (SEALs verus MEC SF on an aircraft carrier) , Ghost Town (Septsanz 
 versus SAS is a small town) and Warlord (SAS versus Iraqi insurgents in Falluhja) . None of these 
 maps are as good as Karkand or Shraqi but better than the rest of the first game. 
  
  Special Forces offers alot of great new things and is the best expainsion ever and expands the 
 best game ever
  
  Gunnery Seargeant DoctaStrangelove 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wingman15
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 31, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Whats not to love? More great gaming in the BF2 series. You get many new maps, night maps with 
 night vision, flash bangs, grappling hooks, zip lines, new vehicles, new armies, new weapons, more 
 awards tracking for stats, etc. etc. 
  
  This is a great expansion to the BF2 game. It brings a whole new style of fighting to the game. 
 Special Forces is not played the same way as BF2. This is more tactical and slower in nature. Its 
 not Rainbow Six slow, but you get the feel of a slower paced Special Forces game like the R6 series.
 
  
  What could be better then all this? Well, they are now releasing BF2 and SF in a deluxe version 
 for $49.99. So if you don't have BF2 yet, then get the deluxe package. You will be glad that you 
 did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 12, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  This was supposed to score way higher with me but the many times I have had to un-install, re-install, 
 un-install etc etc I knocked down the score here out of pure frustration. Right now it runs fine 
 just don't send me any new patches again to F it all up all over again! Lol
  
  This game is both ambitious and does succeed in furthering the BF agenda of bringing you free MP 
 and internet battles for the most bang for your buck. The war continues now with the addition of 
 Special Forces collected from around the world! And some of the greatest are here: British SAS, 
 Russian Federation SPETSNAZ, US NAVY SEALS (Navy DEVGRU) , MEC SF (fictional) , Insurgent (pick yer 
 country) and Chechen Rebels. Although those last guys there may not be part of the world's elite, 
 I guess they had to have someone be the adversaries.
  
  Played over the expanses of Russia, Syria, Lebanon and even a close quarters battle onboard a US 
 Amphib carrier the maps are well done and do offer a great variety and you better be good at them 
 or you are dust. The main problem with some of them (especially one called "Warlord") is that it 
 slows down to a freakin' crawl and the action ergo does too! I had to cut my times on these maps 
 (except for Surge & Mass Destruction-both excellent) because there was no point! They would just 
 grind to a halt and I know my PC can run this game-just this game don't wanna cooperate with me! 
 
  
  If you run all these maps fine and dandy you are in for a treat cuz there are some battles to be 
 had here. They added the HIND-D attack chopper, the AH-64D Long Bow, the BMP-3 w/o the 30mm though, 
 and various small craft you can drive or pilot (ie the water ski-lol) . These maps are dedicated 
 to infantry "small unit" tactics and do not offer any new fighter jets to pilot (sorry guys!)
 
  
  All in all excellent choice for subject matter, the BF2 juggernaut keeps rolling along and with 
 more mods due out and the famous "booster packs" like "Euro-Force" and "Armored Fury" out now or 
 coming soon, I predict my HD will soon just run out of space! JK BUY GAME NOW!
  
  "Ammo, HERE!!!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 5, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  Seeing as how its the child of one of the best games to ever exist, its not going to over power 
 the regular Battlefield 2. I love the new vehicles and maps, but its not all new. With the words 
 "Special Forces" comes "stealth". Not with this game. I found that while playing in 16-player servers, 
 its not very stealthy. You still have all the chaos and destruction like before, but now its in 
 the dark. I still love this game though. Playing as the SAS, Spetznaz, SEALS, etc.. The new weapons 
 add a lot to the series too. From the tear gas gun to the G36-E, its great for the allies. Not 
 too good for the terrorists though. Only expect new weapons for the SEALS and SAS. Everyone else 
 is stuck with the same old AK-47 type weapons. The RPG's are nice though, and only available to 
 the baddies. A nice feature for this is that you can unlock the Special Forces weapons to use in 
 the vanilla Battlefield 2 game on multi-player, any server. A great add-on overall to the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 3, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  Battle Field 2 Special forces.
  
  Well Ea has done it again Amazing gameplay pretty dang good graphics and nice sound in a game this 
 is a really good game one of my favorites the multiplayer is great but the single player is Awesome.
 
  
  Worth getting a bang for your buck this on is really one of my favorites I love how you can fly 
 planes set dynamite and all the fun stuff not often you can do all that in a game.
  
  GET THIS GAME YOU WILL NOT REGRET IT I didnt :-)
  
  Well hope this review helped you.......
 
  
  And remember LEADTEK AND NIVIDA RULE!......
  
  Battle Field 2 Special Forces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumbody1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  The impressive expansion pack to the game "Battlefield 2". The expansion offers players a range 
 of new maps, weapons, equiptment, vehicles and of course new armies that you can join such as the 
 british SAS or russian spetznas, the map night flight and the zip line are two of many other maps 
 and equiptment which have been introduced to the game. The new maps are great to fight and die 
 on, the weapons are good and theres the vehicles of course to travel in what else could anyone 
 need?
  
  Gameplay - 9
  
  Graphics - 9
  
  Sound - 9
  
  Value - 8
  
  Tilt - 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 14, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome and everyone the liked or loved battlefield 2 must have this game.
  
  Gameplay: 8 new levels, cool graphics as the regular battlefield 2 and it's got new weapons and 
 equiments, as well as some new vehicles so it's a lot of fun.
  
  Graphic: It's got stunning visuals as the regular battlefield 2 so there is nothing pretty much 
 changed.
  
  Sound: Yeah, the sound it's awesome as the regular battlefield 2 as well nothing pretty much changed, 
 cool sound effects VOIP music and just the sound as the regular battlefield 2 overall.
  
  Value: it's absolutely worth getting this game if you liked or even loved battlefield 2 cause it's 
 have 8 new levels, new weapons, equiments and vehicles as well.
  
  It's a mainly multiplayer game cause every pc battlefield game has been a multiplayer game only 
 or at least a mainly multiplayer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrHappyBizzar
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  This game has the same great gameplay as battlefield 2 (not that difficult seeing as how it is 
 an expansion pack) but I feel as though it is vastly overpriced for what you get. Basically you 
 pay around 30 dollars for a few new maps and a new set of guns. At this point in time, EA has released 
 European Assault, another new expansion, for 10 dollars. You get essentially the same thing with 
 European Assault as you do with Special Forces for 20 dollars less and European Assault has a new 
 faction (European Union) which actually gives it more content than Special Forces. BF2: SF is only 
 for the avid fan of Battlefield 2, if you would like a suggestion, I feel as though European Assault 
 would be a much better buy, but if you feel as though you have to get everything that EA has to 
 offer for Battlefield 2 then you should buy this expansion pack as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex1029
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  After playing the first installation of the Battlefield 2 game for so long, it was quite refreshing 
 to play the Special Forces expansion pack for it. It adds a whole new level of gameplay and entertainment 
 to the game. Being able to utilize the weapons and tactics of different special forces groups from 
 around the world is really awesome. Nightvision adds realism to the night fighting. It doesn't 
 last forever either, just like that of the real nightvision that troops use. This makes the gameplay 
 challenging and not boring. Being able to zip across the zipline and take out troops in the process 
 or to just get to one place to another easily is nice. Not to mention being able to use a grappling 
 hook to climb buildings without ladders available. This game is f-ing sweet and couldn't possibly 
 get much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jameswatson
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 31, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This game doesn't have enough maps. I mean, if you're going to release a game you should at least 
 include 10 or more maps or you might as well not release it. I play BF2 co-op all the time and 
 I was hoping SF would give me at least 10 maps. All I got was 5 (I think) and they were pretty 
 lousy. Plus, the game doesn't integrate with BF2. In other words, if you want to play the SF maps 
 you need to exit out of BF2 and load up BFSF (we all know how long that takes) . Very annoying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megaplayer742
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  Ok, this is an expansion pack to the hit PC game Battlefield 2. First of all, you should note that 
 you need a really high powered PC to experience this game to its fullest. Basically, if you could 
 run Battlefield 2, then you'll have no problem running this. Ok, you also need a copy of Battlefield 
 2 to run this game. Lastly, you need to download patch 1.12 in order to play this game on line, 
 as it fixes glitches and allows use of the new weapons. Ok, lets get started then.
  
  Graphics
  
  Wow, the graphics in the expansion are amazing. Besides just being the same as 
 Battlefield 2, they also added new effects and character models to the game. New effects they added 
 are the tear gas effect, where everything becomes fuzzy and wavy, and it makes it very hard to 
 see. Then their is the flash bang effect, in which you see a bright white light, and the effect 
 lasts for about a minute or so. Then their is the character models. DICE has added over 6 more 
 character models to match the factions in the game. Two minor complaints are, the jag-gies and 
 the lag. The character models are great, but they look a little jag-gie and the dying animations 
 could use some work. And, the lag can sometimes be unbearable, but i guess it just depends on the 
 connections of the people in the game. Also, the game requires a high end PC to experience the 
 game to its fullest. But, don't let that make the game unbearable to you, it's still a beautiful 
 game.
  
  Sound 
  
  Ok, wow. What with the voices of the soldiers, the explosions, the tension, the gunfire, i could 
 go on and on, but the sound in this game is amazing. Especially if you have surround sound, you 
 practically feel like you are in the game. Overall, im not going to get too in-depth with the sound, 
 but DICE struck it big time with the game's sound.
  
  Game play 
  
  A game is nothing without its game play. You will love the game play, period. OK, when you join 
 a server, you get to choose one of the six factions. Either be the Navy SEALs, British SAS, Russian 
 Spetznas, MEC Special Forces, Rebel groups or insurgents. Then, join a squad, and apply for commander. 
 Don't wanna walk, ride in one of the 10 new vehicles. Wanna try something new, try one of the 6 
 or so more new gadgets. This expansion is focused more on infantry combat rather than vehicle combat 
 in the original Battlefield 2. If you want more in depth game play information, look at reviews 
 for Battlefield 2, as this is just an expansion, but it feels like a whole new game.
  
  Overall
  
  Have Battlefield 2? Looking for some new maps, vehicles, factions, gadgets? Or are 
 you just looking to expand your fun from Battlefield 2? If you said yes to any of those, buy this 
 game, now. One complaint is that it takes a while to download everything, but once you do, don't 
 stop playing this game. See you on Battlefield 2: Special Forces!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  If you thinking about buying this expansion pack you would either need to be a battlefield 2 fanatic 
 or you wanted extra unlocks and maybe an extra badge or two.
  If you look at how much this game is ($42.90 SGD) i am not so sure it is worth what it is. A few 
 new maps, quite a few new armies and some weapons. Now MANY people know that battlefield 2 is not 
 a game for singleplayer, its online or you will be ripped-off! and alot of the servers (ranked) 
 now are running low (less than 50) you would want to think again (expecially if you get kicked 
 for having high pings alot) .
  It is odd, yet nice to get two unlocks instead of one each time you go up a level when you have 
 special forces though... and some of the badges you can get are quite easy.
  As for the new vehicles, they are not bad, i dont think the jet ski was needed.
  The idea for 
 night combat i think was a good idea, yet it can be annoying wearing the night-vision-goggles.
 
  It was a nice addition to include grappling hooks and zip-lines, but these are not available to 
 every soldier class.
  The flash bangs and the gas-grenade type things im not sure if they were needed, but i dont use 
 them much...
  
  All in all, if i got a chance to borrow this off a friend before i brought it, i doubt i would 
 of brought it for the price i did, i would have wanted the price significantly lower.
  This is a nice expansion, but it definatly isnt the best, if they included Euro Forces and Armoured 
 fury into this one expansion pack, it would be worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2o35
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  It really wasn't much of an "expansion" from Battlefield 2. The only thing that I find good about 
 this game are the extra weapon unlocks, that's the only reason I got it.
  
  The most annoying thing is getting it installed and running it. I don't know if it was just my 
 computer or bad setup design but it was very tedious and extremely frustrating.
  In all it took me over an hour to install it properly. Every step of the way there was a problem 
 but finally after the installation began I walked away from my computer and about 30 minutes later 
 it finished.
  
  Anyway, minus those bads, there are a few goods.
  The gameplay is a little different from Battlefield 2, only, it has more features; more stealth 
 and tactical situations rather than lots of combat.
  I don't know about you but I think it really wasn't much better than Battlefield 2; personally 
 I liked the orginal better.
  
  Really, only get this game if you desire more and different weapons to use for Battlefield 2. That's 
 one good thing about it is that an unlock in Special Forces is usable in Battlefield 2. Personally 
 I think you should just go half-half on the price with a friend and buy it together because you 
 can use the game and log on to both accounts and get unlocks for as many accounts as you want as 
 long as the computer you are unlocking stuff on has Special Forces installed. Thats what my friend 
 and I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matrixguy4580
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Special Forces is a great expansion pack to Battlefield 2. However, I have some 
 issues with its new features. First of all, the night vision goggles may add a new element of gameplay, 
 but they also hinder your graphics performance, and servers have basically phased out night maps 
 by now. The new weapons are made primarily for the US SEALS and British SAS, with not a SINGLE 
 new weapon for the MEC Spec Ops or Russian Spetznaz. There is one new RPG for the insurgents. Big 
 deal. New attack helicopters are more of the same with missles and machine guns- I miss the explosive 
 shell- launching MEC attack chopper. Since it's considered a mod, switching between vanilla BF2 
 maps and Spec Forces maps can be a painful process. One thing that angered me was that the expansion 
 pack lowered my default graphics settings (which I quickly altered for optimal fps and quality) . 
 Don't expect to play more than four of the maps offered: warlord (fun at first, annoying after 
 the first time you're spawn killed 10 times in a row inside the palace) , ghost (cool rooftop map 
 with lots of sniping) , mass destruction (one of my favorite) , and surge (which I've defaulted to 
 doing broken bridge jumping with jeeps to have fun on) - one extremely annoying map is the map that 
 takes place mostly inside a USS Essex- IF the MEC team can get an initial point captured in it- 
 if your team is too inept to form squads, you will end up being anti-tanked in your jet ski (a 
 useless addition to the game) for the duration of the map. On the US SEALS team (which I've been 
 unlucky enough to NEVER have played) , expect many kills, ammo giving points, and basically camping 
 goodness for your rank score. The grapling hook is a sweet addition- adds a lot to the game. The 
 zipline is also a cool idea, if it didn't shove you off the edge of a building when placed correctly. 
 Gas masks and tear gas are pointless additions that just complicate the game, flash grenades are 
 for more annoying and innefective than smoke grenades (teamflashing has become a great american 
 passtime of tk'ers) . I've gone back to playing vanilla BF2 classic maps like Dragon Valley, the 
 most beautifully designed map in that game, with my 2nd tier unlocked weapons from Special Forces. 
 In the end, its setbacks really don't hinder the game as much as I make it sound, but it wasn't 
 exactly worth 30 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catcher6250
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 17, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  BF2: Special Forces has many good things in it, but many bad things as well. 
  
  Special Forces manages to bring out the squad-based combat in the game. Without annoying airplanes 
 and with the new helicopters lessened in power, SF allows a player to enjoy the new vehicles weapons 
 and gadgets. SF allows the player to always be in battle without having to worry about getting 
 to it nlike BF2. 
  
  However, there are an amount of negative things as well about SF. These are things that will probably 
 fixed in updates because mostly the problems are about loading times and latency. This may not 
 seem like a big problem but little lag problems get extremely annoying and encourage players to 
 go back to regular BF2.
  
  Probably the best things about SF is the fact that you can unlock the new guns and bring them back 
 to the regular BF Servers and show them off to your friends. And your enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper0993
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 12, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Seeing as how its the child of one of the best games to ever exist, its not going to over power 
 the regular Battlefield 2. I love the new vehicles and maps, but its not all new. With the words 
 "Special Forces" comes "stealth". Not with this game. I found that while playing in 16-player servers, 
 its not very stealthy. You still have all the chaos and destruction like before, but now its in 
 the dark. I still love this game though. Playing as the SAS, Spetznaz, SEALS, etc.. The new weapons 
 add a lot to the series too. From the tear gas gun to the G36-E, its great for the allies. Not 
 too good for the terrorists though. Only expect new weapons for the SEALS and SAS. Everyone else 
 is stuck with the same old AK-47 type weapons. The RPG's are nice though, and only available to 
 the baddies. A nice feature for this is that you can unlock the Special Forces weapons to use in 
 the vanilla Battlefield 2 game on multi-player, any server. A great add-on overall to the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ObviousMan
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Considering that Battlefield 2 in itself is a fantastic game I figured I would drop the $30 for 
 the Special Forces expansion pack. Unfortunately, this pack is simply not what it should be. First 
 and foremost, this game does not run well. I am able to run standard BF2 at 1600x1200 settings 
 on high and 4xAA, but special forces is very choppy at 1280x1024 with no AA. If this expansion 
 pack featured updated graphics this would not be a big deal, but it looks exactly the same as BF2. 
 The sound of the game is a relative high point, just as it was in the original BF2, but gameplay 
 suffers. Essentially it is the same as the original game, but things like night vision and zip 
 lines really add nothing to the package. The poor performance of this game is what really hurts, 
 and for some reason multiple patches by our friends at EA have done nothing to resolve these issues. 
 Overall, save your money till something better comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chronus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  A few years back Chrome appeared on shelves out of nowhere, receiving decidedly mixed reviews. 
 Many people mislabeled it as a budget shooter, but underneath its rough exterior lay a very solid 
 title with some interesting gameplay elements. Soon enough, Chrome SpecForce will be hitting stores, 
 and once again we can expect a very solid title. The graphics have been improved, the voice actors 
 are spot-on, and the game is extremely immersive and entertaining.
  
  In some aspects SpecForce can be viewed as a Far Cry clone, since most of the game takes place 
 outside with some indoor activity. The jungle areas are lush and look great, the maps are huge 
 and expansive, and the indoor missions arent the same corridors repeated into eternity. Indoor 
 levels mainly consist of finding a terminal and hacking it to open a door or activate/deactivate 
 some security measure. The hacking process consists of matching symbols together. You are given 
 a set amount of moves to complete it in and the number of symbols to match. For the first few levels 
 the game only requires you to match two symbols; as the game progresses it increases to three. 
 Once they are all matched, the door or gate unlocks. Level design is incredible, and really brings 
 the game to another level. All the missions are strung together and build off one another, so it 
 seems like the game is one large map.
  
  The controls and inventory system are as approachable as in the previous game. You have a limited 
 amount of space to hold weapons, ammo, health kits, grenades, etc. Each gun takes up a certain 
 amount of space, and you cant carry them all. You can also sport a secondary weapon, a handgun, 
 but the chances of ever using it are slim. The variety of weaponry is interesting, with each firearm 
 having their own strengths and weaknesses. Youll find yourself using the machine gun throughout 
 most of the game though, because it holds the most ammo and has decent accuracy and damage. The 
 controls are straightforward and require no remapping. Several armor power-ups are all mapped around 
 the movement keys for easy use. 
  
  Power-ups include motive support, neural booster, camouflage layer, and power shields. Motive support 
 allows you to move faster, giving you the ability to retreat faster or move throughout a facility 
 faster. Neural booster slows down time and allows you to take out opponents that move faster than 
 you or are stronger than you. This isnt anything new, but isnt a selling point of the game like 
 bullet-time was for Max Payne. In fact, the action is so fast-paced that you will rarely use it. 
 The camouflage layer makes you slightly invisible but once an enemy spots you, they stick with 
 you. Power shields allow you to take more powerful hits without taking a lot of damage. All of 
 these drain the armors power, which can be recharged using regen packs found on the field. The 
 armor also features a specialized reticule for spotting friendly units and enemy units, a huge 
 help because the forest levels are so dense and the brush is very high. The reticule locks onto 
 opponents with a red circle, allowing you to easily find them even if they are camouflaged. This 
 reticule is extremely helpful and would make the game a lot more difficult without it.
  
  SpecForce also features vehicles and computer-controlled teammates. The vehicles are great and 
 very easy to control, making for some great gameplay moments. You can drive a buggy, walk around 
 in an armored walker, or float around in an antigravity speeder. The buggy has two seats so a teammate 
 can drive and you can spend your time picking off enemies with the machine gun. There are two types 
 of walkers in the game, anti-troop and anti-vehicle. The anti-vehicle can easily eliminate troops, 
 but the reload time on the weapons doesnt offer an optimal rate of fire. The anti-troop one cannot 
 rotate 360 degrees like the anti-tank walker, so its quite limited as to what it can see. The 
 teammates in the game are excellent, giving you cover fire when needed, distracting the enemy units, 
 and usefully increasing your chances of survival. Your main teammate, Pointer, is a sniper and 
 aids you throughout the game. The downsides to these teammates include not being able to control 
 them, and failing a mission if you fall too far behind when you are supposed to follow them.
  
  Multiplayer is a blast, due in part to the levels. Modes available include CTF, DM, TDM, and 
 TD. The first three are self-explanatory, with TD standing for Team Domination. TD has you running 
 around a map taking control of special checkpoints. As you gain control of these checkpoints your 
 score increases. The levels are great fun, and the huge forest levels allow for many opportunities 
 to hide and sneak around, something we havent seen a lot of. You can play multiplayer matches 
 over LAN or the Internet.
  
  Graphically speaking, SpecForce is up there. The models are considerably detailed and character 
 animations are very fluid. The different weapons all look unique, detailed, and sound great, although 
 it is the level design that sets this game apart from others. Both the indoor and outdoor levels 
 look excellent, with strong textures making for some detailed scenery.
  
  The only problem I have with the game is the initial load time at the beginning of each mission. 
 Depending on your machine it could take up to a minute or so, but thankfully there is only one 
 load per mission, so nothing interrupts the gameplay.
  
  Overall, this game exceeded expectations, especially with the price tag. It is definitely a diamond 
 in the rough, as was the original Chrome. SpecForce offers up some intense firefights, great gameplay, 
 awesome visuals, and astonishing voice actors. At $29.99, SpecForce is one of the best First Person 
 Shooters of the year and the sleeper hit of 2005. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: legoloco
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  I havn't played single player so this review is about multiplayer. This isn't big improvment from 
 regular battlefeild 2 but there are some. The ziplines were added which are very helpfull for getting 
 off buildings. The grappling hooks are also very useful. You can climb up buildings and let other 
 people up with the rope. But the bad thing is you can't have both. AND THE SNIPERS HAVE THE ZIPLINE!!!!!!!!!! 
 THAT SUCKS! Snipers should have grappling hooks for good sniping spots! If you have battlefield 
 2 and no expansion don't be in a rush to buy this. Not much different and most of the good maps 
 are still the regular battlefield ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 4, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  battlefield 2 was amazing, and we all know it. the online was awesome, and the maps were out of 
 this world. to me, it would be a surprise if there was no expanion. when i heard about it, i was 
 excited. then i bought it. the AI stick sucks, and this may discourage you, but if you play online 
 with thge new maps and rewards, it will be a great experiance. if you own BF:2 and are a fan, pick 
 this game up. u wont be dissapointed. the new expansion Euro Force doesn look to appealing to me. 
 with only like 3 new vehicles and 5 new guns, i think its a waste of my mjoney. SF isnt, and it 
 will serve you well and long 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  It was soon after Battlefield 2s launch, a mere three weeks to be exact, that its expansion pack, 
 Special Forces, was announced. Eyebrows were raised at EA for such a quick announcement and memories 
 of the film Spaceballs and their instant cassettes gag ran through my head. The game does have 
 a few hiccups that reinforce the notion that it may have been rushed but Special Forces introduces 
 several fun new mechanics into a game already rich with varied gameplay elements.
  
  From the very first run of the game youll notice a few differences, such as the addition of new 
 teams. Instead of the boring old three teams that duked it out in Battlefield 2 youll get a choice 
 of six sides: U. S. Navy Seals, British SAS, Russian Spetznas, MEC Special Forces, and two generic 
 teams of civilian armies that vary between Insurgents or Rebels depending on where the map is based. 
 The addition of the SAS is probably the best out of them all with the Brits sporting some of the 
 most effective and cool-sounding weaponry of any of the teams while the Navy Seals retain the basic 
 armaments of the U. S. forces from Battlefield 2. 
  
  The biggest disappointment in Special Forces is that the four remaining teams are virtually identical 
 in equipment, sporting the same weapons save for a variation on the anti-tank rocket. If you played 
 the Middle Eastern Coalition in Battlefield 2 then youve already played two-thirds of the new 
 forces. Sure theres the visual difference in uniforms and the difference in dialogue, but there 
 just isnt a unique enough separation that distinguishes one from the next. It is probable that 
 they would all have Russian weaponry in the real world since its some of the cheapest and most 
 effective, and thats understandable for the Spetznas. But to assume three other factions would 
 all have the same pistols, assault rifles, and machine guns is a bit much. Surely C4 packs for 
 insurgents could have been replaced with the improvised explosive devices weve all heard about 
 in the news? Simple name and model changes would go a long way in immersing the players in combat.
 
  
  Combat immersion, however scant in the team variety, hasnt been ignored completely. What EA has 
 done to the game makes it a completely different combat experience all together. For starters, 
 many classes are equipped with either a grappling hook or a zip line to facilitate maneuverability. 
 The former letting you get to the top of an otherwise un-climbable building and the latter enabling 
 you to quickly descend to virtually anywhere. Long gone are the bottleneck points that can be secured 
 by an armored vehicle with infantry support. These tools allow any place to be vulnerable to attack 
 and this is further demonstrated by the inclusion of destructible obstacles. Some wooden doors 
 and gates can be blown up with explosives to reveal passages that can break a defense wide open.
 
  
  As if that werent enough, close-quarters combat has been injected with a shot of reality with 
 the inclusion of tear gas and flash-bang grenades. A room full of enemies can be either blinded 
 or gassed into submission paving the way for an enemy conquest. The gas can be countered by a quick 
 press of 8 that will make you dawn a gas mask, but visibility is limited and your ability to 
 jump and sprint long distances compromised. Flash bangs wash your screen with white and deafen 
 your speakers to make you as helpless as a baby. When used properly, these two items can make or 
 break an entire team. A small squad that uses them effectively rules the battlefield and will frustrate 
 the enemy, causing players to either quit or make more mistakes. Players seem to recognize this 
 and so far weve seen more concerted efforts to develop squads and use actual teamwork to accomplish 
 objectives, much more than we did in Battlefield 2.
  
  What you cant kill with tear gas however you may be able to do with a tank, and Special Forces 
 sports a decent number of new vehicles. The best one so far are the personal transportsatv for 
 land and jet ski for waterwhich allow players to zip along to various locations without being 
 noticed. Theyre lightly armored but such small targets are so quick that theyre tough to hit. 
 Small two-passenger civilian cars and trucks will litter the maps to help alleviate the problem 
 that many people are forced to walk after all the vehicles are taken during the start of a match. 
 A small walk down the road to a randomly inserted house and you can steal the car for a quick getaway.
 
  
  The new transport vehicle resembles a beefed up dune buggy that is armed to the teeth with machine 
 guns and can take more than one shell from an armored threat. All of these vehicles are a welcome 
 addition to the game but the new tank seems outclassed by just about everything. Looking like a 
 boxcar with wheels, the BMP3 handles like a turtle and is terrible with stop and go maneuvers. 
 Only a handful of maps use the new tank but its not uncommon to see people ignore it completely.
 
  
  Special Forces ships with eight maps, with a heavy emphasis the type of urban combat that was so 
 loved on the Mashtuur City and Strike at Karkand levels in the original. The maps are as varied 
 as they are fun like Iron Gator, which sees the MEC Special Forces assaulting an American aircraft 
 carrier, a reverse D-Day if you will where half the boats that leave the shoreline never make it 
 to the ship. Ghost Town features the SAS and Spetznas as they converge in the center of an abandoned 
 city fighting in the burned out hulks of abandoned vehicles while a gloomy overcast sky hangs over 
 their heads. There are even three night maps which force players to use their night-vision goggles. 
 With the reduced visibility, the maps are a veritable garden of targets for lone wolves and kill 
 counts average high. The night-vision is a nice touch and forces players to constantly switch out 
 goggles when entering lit structures or other illuminated passages. Its all about immersing players 
 and the night-vision is just one example of the games excellent visuals.
  
  Obviously using the same engine as Battlefield 2, its expansion pack looks identical. The new effects 
 like flash-bang blindness, blurry tear gas inhalation, and night vision are all work well and the 
 effects dont often mess with the frame rate. Theres an occasional frame rate hit during the large 
 battles but when you have helicopters, tanks, and foot soldiers all running around there are bound 
 to be some large battles to clog up the graphics engine, and even then it doesnt happen all that 
 often. 
  
  The audio is once again pulled off flawlessly and the new weapon effects sound better on a nice 
 surround system than anything the Battlefield series has done before. The British voice work is 
 particularly enjoying to listen to, reaffirming the fact that even the stiff-ass British can sound 
 calm and collected under fire. It doesnt degrade into, Well then, it appears were being shot 
 at, but whats there isnt far off the mark.
  
  If there were any big complaints, it would have to be with the multiple patches and installations 
 that need to be applied before you can even use the game. When you install Special Forces it has 
 to first patch your version of Battlefield 2, which eats up 5-10 minutes, then successfully installs. 
 Before you can play online however you must download and install the 270mb patch to update your 
 copy of the game to the current version. Its a minor detail, but depending on your connection, 
 someone with 1mb/sec broadband will be waiting a few hours before he can do anything at all.
  
  Overall, Battlefield 2: Special Forces does a lot to expand an already fantastic game. Its 
 all the little changes that make the game more enjoyable and more squad-friendly. A few of the 
 armies are a bit repetitious, but the skins and voice work are unique enough to give each army 
 an independent presence. For those of you who loved Battlefield 2, Special Forces will inject that 
 special something that will re-hook you to the series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 27, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 was one of the best BF games to come out of the EA market. Then they relased this. 
 Special Forces is a disaster in my opinion. Completely off balance with only one side getting new 
 weapons making it extremely frustrating to anyone playing on the opposite side. I've got mixed 
 reactions about the maps, half are good, the rest are junk. The new vehicles are good, but it would 
 have been so much better if the entire thing could have been combined into the original BF2.
  
  I just can't help but think with all the bugs in the game, it wasn't worth the price tag.
 
  
  Thumbs down on this expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_hodges
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 25, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  The expansion pack is all about special forces combat- the Navy SEALs, British SAS, Russian Spetnaz, 
 and other elite units. Although everthing seems new, everything really feels the same. Then again, 
 it's just an expansion and not an entirely new game.
  
  New in SF are flashbangs, tear gas, ziplines, and grappling hooks corresponding to specific combat 
 classes. These tools are rarely used but when correctly at the right time, it could be a gamebreaker 
 for one particular team. Also, gas maks and night vision goggles come in handy in certain maps.
 
  
  The new maps are really the core of the expansion pack. Keeping in mind that we're using special 
 force teams, you're going to see more close quarter battles instead of the more free roaming maps 
 like in BF2. No flyable aircraft, just helos in some maps. Night maps bring a whole new meaning 
 to close quarters combat. 
  
  But with all this greatest bring your usual bugs and gameplay flaws. For many people, SF really 
 bogs down in intense firefights. At the time of this review, a recent fix patched many issues but 
 SF is still bogging down at random times, even on high end systems. EA has announced that they 
 are addressing the problem (Again) in a upcoming patch. 
  
  Overall, SF is a great buy and worth it just for the new maps and weapons to play with. 
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimatoad2000
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  bf2 sf is the first expansion to bf2. it adds a number of new countries ( teams realy) and a whole 
 new set of unlocks ( except the anti tank and sniper, though the newest patch adds them because 
 of the booster back thats coming up) . the game also has a couple new vehicles that are just rehashes 
 of the bf2 vanilla ones, the choppers are a little bttr and harder to steer though.
  
  the addition of night vision, grappling hooks, zip lines, flash bangs, gas masks and tear gas are 
 a mixed bag of good bad and eh.
  
  to start the night vision just makes things fuzzy and green, it might be realistic but its boring 
 to look at. having to press 7 every time to switch it on and off is also a pain as you use it on 
 the fly.
  
  grappling hook/zip line are good they let you get places you usualy wouldnt get to/ make it faster 
 to get somewhere, also making squad work bttr so you have someone with both of the tools. that 
 realy go hand in hand.
  
  tear gas is the new smoke gernade and it makes your vision like u just smoked a bunch of stuvv. 
 but the gasmask can be easlily put on and evade this, though maybee having to make you take off 
 your night vision, and brings stamina use down alot when used. 
  its too easy to avoide and its realy just thrown on to me.
  
  one thing i must mention is the 
 graphics take a beating in this expansion pack. it dosnt look bttr than vanila in anyway and if 
 at all the maps are smaller. but youll have to lower some settings and probly not get even the 
 same fps you had with vanilla. ( i had to drop dynam lighting from medium to low/ even sometimes 
 off) also gamespot said a patch would fix this and ea did too but even though ea said the 1.2 patch 
 would fix and add performance, all i saw was things looked worse, no performance increase.
  the expansion also crashes alot. aslo there are about 120 ish ranked servers with ppl playing as 
 of last time i checked. also ping is a big issue as most servers are laggy ( its the game) Warlord 
 has been laggy wherever i go, sad cuz its one of the best maps next to surge.
  
  its a good buy, be prepaired for some trouble/agrivation/lower graphics that you'd like but pick 
 it up, the unlocks are good and if your in a clan like me its necicary 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bf2expert
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  this is battlefield 2 the great online multiplayer you new but with sooooo much more the night 
 maps add so much more af a tatical gamplay and the few new weapons are great the vehics were the 
 best improvment i would say with the jetski the sand cat ohhh do i love the new russian apc it 
 is almost a tank without the genner and it carries 4 extra poeple this is a great expantion and 
 if you love bf2 you should just buy this to go up in you tatical game. there are a bit of probles 
 with installing and i recomend not playing till all patches are fully downloaded other than that 
 your good to go.! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 Special Forces is not a good expansion pack at all. The game has the same premise 
 as it's big brother but with adding new guns maps and armies you can be and unlock, none of which 
 however are worth mentioning, no really there not. The graphics while obviously on the same engine 
 are worse than BF2 and the load times which were already too F*&@ing long any way just got longer 
 (YEP) . Even with my mighty system the game has lag issues, which are suppose to be fixed in an 
 up coming patch. Over all the game is very disappointing at best, it does deliver the same great 
 game play and new vehicles but the maps suck (yes all of them) and the game is very buggy. So if 
 I were you I would wait until the patch comes out to fix this sloppy game, and I'm sorry to say 
 that the maps can't be fix though LOL. If you shelled out the cash for BF2 and want more maps, 
 guns, gadgets, and vehicles to play with no matter how bad they are then this ones for you baby. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakeob1106
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 SF added some different appraoches to the already stellar BF2 PC Thriller! If you're 
 a fps fan and love online multiplayer this is to date the best game released. SF allows you to 
 have either a grappling hook, or zip line, depending on which loadout you choose, to get to just 
 about anywhere on the map you can find. Also with the exclusion of jets it makes tank combat, and 
 infantry combat much more fun and lasts longer. I highly enjoy this game and anticipate many more 
 Battlefield games. Along with the previous additions I stated, there are a a few more nationalities 
 to choose from 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero-nine
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  Ok first of all I just love Battlefield 2. Its an amazing game. So of course I bought this add-on. 
 So what does Special Forces really get you? 
  
  Ok if you first install this add on be prepared to install it then unpatch battlefield than patch 
 it again. I dont know why but thats the way it is.
  
  Well to start there are 8 new maps. Some are quite good some are quite poor. The maps are a lot 
 smaller then the original ones. This brings a huge advantage to the ground troops (you dont have 
 to walk 5 min to get to your next destination) . There is even a map that you can play at night. 
 So you have to put on your night vision or youll end up nowhere. This is really quite annoying; 
 the image you get when you put your goggles on is blurry your sight is smaller than normal. But 
 you cant really take them off. 
  
  Theres some new equipment and weapons too. Most of you guys probably got owned by some dude who 
 has the F2000, well he got it here. There are some other weapons as well but you only get them 
 when you play either the SAS or the SEALS. The other troops use pretty much the same weapons as 
 the MEC (bummer, I want some weapons that date after the production of the AK!) . The cool thing 
 is that you got some kind of gripping hook which you can throw over buildings and then climb them. 
 I never really used it, but its there anyway. Another new weapon is some kind of teargas bazooka, 
 so before you enter a room you can gas it! It also has the flash bang, gasmasks, and some other 
 stuff that isnt really worth mentioning. 
  
  With Special Forces you can now play as: Navy Seals, British SAS, Russian Spetznas, MEC Special 
 Forces, Rebel groups and Insurgents. Do you care? No! Neither do I. Spetznas, MEC Special forces, 
 Rebel groups and the insurgents all share the same equipment. So I dont really see the advantage 
 of these new units? I mean the MEC special forces use the old AK again, what so darn special about 
 them then? That they can throw some hook over a building?
  
  There are 10 new vehicles, nothing too fancy. I dont really know what to say about them. You got 
 some kind of worn out pick-up with some machine guns installed in it. And some armoured vehicles 
 that drive like ****
  
  The biggest advantages of this add on is the fact that you can take back some cool SF weapons to 
 the regular Battlefield 2. The maps are ok, some are quite good even. But there are not that many 
 SF maps online and if you join one you will have to quit Battlefield and switch to Special Forces 
 and visa versa. Would I buy this expansion pack again if I knew what I know now? Hell yeah! These 
 SF weapons kick ass! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_freak_0001
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 15, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  First let me say that i have encountered no problems with the consistency of the gameplay or installation.
 
  
  Battlefield 2 Special Forces takes the intensity and quality of Battlefield in showcasing the most 
 elite and deadly forces in the modern military world. Using accurate Special Forces weapons, gadgets, 
 and vehicles, these covert armies battle to control key military and strategic locations.
  
  In Battlefield 2 Special Forces, players will choose to fight as one of six different Special 
 Forces soldiers  Navy SEALs, British SAS, Russian Spetznas, MEC Special Forces, Rebel groups and 
 insurgents. You can take control of 10 new vehicles including the Desert Raider, Combat ATV, a 
 Russian BMP3 Armored Personnel Carrier, and an Apache Longbow Assault Helicopter. Some new Special 
 Forces gadgets and weapons include a zip line, grappling hook, tear gas, gas mask, night-vision 
 goggles, and flash-bang grenades. If thats not enough there are also eight new maps for single 
 and multiplayer use.
  
  Sound and sight were right in line with the Battlefield 2. We would not expect less, but if you 
 were looking for more, its the same. Which is just fine with me because I believe both elements 
 were fantastic. Visually the game is stunning and still has pretty good framerates to boot. The 
 sound effects were superb and the new gadgets found in the game sound great as well.
  
  The new vehicles were a nice touch, featuring ATVS, and jetskiis to zip from hotspot to hotspot, 
 but my favorite part of the expansion has got to be the new gadgets. I love how tear gas can really 
 screw up your vision giving you blurry tripped out look of the combat zone. I also like that you 
 can counter this with a gas mask. While experiencing the ill effects of the tear gas your player 
 even goes into a coughing fit which makes hearing your teammates difficult, as does an assault 
 from your enemy. The new zip line, in the special forces and sniper kits, is a blessing to you 
 snipers out there. No longer are you hung out to dry if you are stuck on a rooftop as a tank is 
 rolling in on your position. Now you can zip down quickly and avoid a tank shell. I used to love 
 getting dropped off on a rooftop from a chopper in online play and hold back the enemy for a short 
 time until they honed in on my death from above. Now I at least have a fighting chance to get the 
 hell out of there once my location is compromised. The grappling hook, featured in the anti-tank 
 and assault kits, are great if you find yourself on the ground in a compromising position or you 
 want to capture a command post covertly in stead of a "guns blazing" sort of "ask questions later" 
 attitude.
  
  The new maps are nothing real new, but they are different. Considering there are a few night missions, 
 it makes good use of the night-vision goggles. They only run for a short period before they have 
 to be recharged so dont think you are going to sit in a dark corner pick off guys all night. Flash 
 bangs really have a bad effect on you when wearing the night goggles. Blinding is a great word 
 for it. Flash bangs are great for tossing one into a room loaded with bad guys. When it goes off 
 it causes a disorientating blast that causes their ears to ring and temporarily blind them. Giving 
 you a couple of seconds to go in and sweep the room before they can even get a shot off.
  
  Online play is now even more addicting as you have a whole new arsenal at your disposal. Games 
 are still fast and furious and are truly where this title shines.
  
  If you liked BF2, you are sure to be pleased with the expansion. This is certainly worth having 
 if you enjoy the game.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipeman99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so here is the low down. The Expansion pack to battlefield 2 is awesome, new guns, new maps, 
 new armies, etc. Now, the sound is good, the graphics are good, and boy oh boy is the gameplay 
 good. Now, the only disadvantages to this game where these: No airplanes (not a big prob. its nice 
 not to be fragged by stupid planes everytime) , and my biggest complaint is 3 teams have the same 
 weapons. Rebels, Insurgents, and Spetnaz, all have the same guns. Otherwise, this is a great game 
 to pick up. You need this game if you have Battlefield 2, its great once its runing, its also quite 
 addicting with ziplines, tear gas, and all that fun stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mathias1869
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 12, 2006 3:50 am PT
Review:  My battlefield 2 experience has left me disappointed in the past, but never completed distanced 
 me from the game. My original BF2 account mysteriously "vanished" from existence, and when I tried 
 to contact EA for help, I was redirected to someone who barely spoke English after 30min of waiting. 
 I was kind of expecting it from EA, nothing against them, but they just control so much that customer 
 support has to suffer. Shortly afterwards, this expansion came out, and deciding that it would 
 be a good excuse to give BF2 a second try (and that history couldn't possibly repeat itself) , I 
 picked it up. What I found was refreshing but packaged with enough problems to prevent me from 
 getting back into the game to the level I used to be.
  
  Gameplay: Considering it has basically the same gameplay as all it's predecessor's, it is an incredibly 
 fun and immersive game. For anyone new to the battlefield series, you join an army, capture points, 
 and hope that your team holds more for longer to win the match. A commander/squad element is encouraged, 
 although rarely ever followed by the casual players on the servers. Nevertheless, you probably 
 won't care, because you'll be having so much fun driving around in tanks, planes, helicopters, 
 etc. and killing people. Add an extensive ranking/rewards system and you'll have a reason to play 
 even more.
  
  Graphics: The graphics look nice, but are no where near as nice as they should be for what is required 
 to run them. I have a fairly nice computer, 3.2ghz with a geforce 6800BFG, but am stuck with playing 
 this game on only medium settings. Lag gets worse the more people are on the maps, so plan on needing 
 a beast of a computer if you ever want to play on a 64 player server. I stick to around 16-32.
 
  
  Sound: Once again, this game is immersive, so of course the sound will be incredible. On a 5.1 
 system, it feels like your actually there, with artillery shells going off around you and the constant 
 sound of gunfire in the distance. War has never sounded so good.
  
  Value: The battlefield expansions never seem to add much, but the quality of the additions more 
 then make up for it. New vehicles aren't that different, the ATV and jetski being the most significant 
 additions. There are a lot of new armies, but not much of a difference between them, although the 
 grapple hook and zip line are a nice touch for the spec ops class (how much more powerful does 
 it really need to be?) . The couple of new maps (I'm not exactly sure how many, but no more then 
 was included in the original game) , are the biggest addition to the game. You'll spend a lot of 
 time on each one and get to know everything about them. They encourage a lot more close-combat 
 action then the original BF2 maps, and a big hand goes to whoever saw that an unproportional number 
 of online matches were played on Karnikand (the only close-combat city map in the original game) 
 and then based the design of the expansion accordingly.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: My lowest score, only because of the massive amount of memory this game needs 
 to run. It's much more then the original game, and I've been waiting for a patch to fix the problem 
 for a while now but have not received one. Hopefully the new Euro Force booster will fix it and 
 the other lag problems this game has. Otherwise, this is a good expansion, and only a few tweaks 
 away from becoming a great one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keith2424
Rating: 5.9
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  pros: new maps, new teams, some new weopons, new vehicles, zip lines, grapling hooks, flashbangs, 
 focus on infantry combat
  
  cons: maps have alot of buildings scraped from the original, teams are quite pointless because 
 they voices are just taken from the original and so are 90% of the weopons, some new weopons some 
 are decent, vechicles are taken from the original but with a new skin so they dont feel different 
 to drive, 3x at least longer to load even with the patch, long load times everywhere really you 
 need a high end system to get by it, cant use nightvision and gas mask at same time, focus on infantry 
 combat
  
  In my opinion the cons outweigh the pros and they game seems like it was rushed out to soon and 
 they did not take enough time to develop and test it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaunh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 9, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  If the Special Forces expansion pack was just adding more maps... I'd still probably buy it - since 
 I'm hopelessly addictived to anything BF2. However, SF adds new game play and even slightly different 
 strategies with the introduction of being able to climb up and down places that normally you coudln't 
 get to easily. The dark element itself can either be annoying, or enjoyable depending on how well 
 you adapt to it. If you hate it, there are plenty of daylight only servers out there for you to 
 enjoy the new toys. 
  
  If it was much more than $30, I wouldn't do it. But at $20-$30 - and if you enjoy BF2, I recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echo13791
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 8, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  Not only does this game give you great new maps, but it also gives you a wide range of special 
 forces weapons, and it gives new features, such as nighttime. I think the greatest new feature 
 was added was the Grappling Hook and the Zipline. You can literally scale almost any wall in the 
 game by just throwing the Grapple up a wall and climbing, making many new sniping spots. The Assault 
 and Anti-Tank kit have grapples. With the Zipline, you can get from higher places to lower places 
 very fast. Pretend you are sniping a top a building. Someone spots you and shoots you. You want 
 to get off the building, but not into the middle of the street, so you can' parachute. You can 
 shoot the zipline to another building, then all you have to hit E and it will take you there. You 
 have to use both these features before you can really appreciate them. The new weapons are also 
 incredible. The new maps are awsome. Many new indoor fight levels have been added. They also added 
 night vision, for when you are stuck in a incredibly dark situation. In some levels, you have to 
 use the night vision almost the whole time. If you like Battlefield 2, then buy this expansion. 
 Even if you haven't ever played Battlefield 2 before, buy it and the expansion. Its all worth it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamemasta456456
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 28, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  ITS A TIME OF WAR, at night and deep behind enemy lines.... Battlefield 2: Special Forces is the 
 expansion for the all famous Battlefield 2. In this game, you play as a special forces army of 
 a few different factions. New weapons include grappling hooks, gask masks, etc. New vehicles like 
 jet skis and ATVs (i just luv running people over with ATVs) . There is 8 new maps, which includes 
 of a few night missions, dont worry you get night vision!
  
  Pros
  + New Weapons and vehicles
  + New factions
  + 8 New maps
  + Multiplayer is GREAT!!!
  + 
 Night maps
  + New accessories like grappling hooks, gas masks, night vision goggles, and crossbow wires or 
 watver u call them
  
  Cons
  - Some bugs (not too many) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crispichikon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 7, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 Special Forces is probably one of the best expansion packs I've ever played. It has 
 new factions and new maps, even some new weapons. Playing on-line was also great. Even if you want 
 to play offline the AI is pretty good. I do have some problems though. There are a few bugs so 
 you'll have to download the patch v1.12 before you install the game but if you already had the 
 original Battlefield 2 youve should've done that by now. There are a lot more factions but not 
 all the factions have weapons specifically for them. Most of them use the same weapons that MEC 
 used in the original game. The new equipment and maps are pretty cool, it's a good thing they included 
 night vision in the game because on some of the new maps you'll need it. Overall I'd say it's one 
 of my favorite games and if you own Battlefield 2 and not this I would definitely go out and buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rumburak_5
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 7, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  There are few things disapointing in this xp and in battlefield 2 in general. (i'm talking mostly 
 about single player) . EA had some time and previous experience to make improvements, but they didn't 
 do it. I can't understand why in single player mode, server must be created and disconnected... all 
 menu interface looks like they are trying my patience to the utmost (with loading time as well) . 
 About the gameplay... It's fun, addictive, graphics looks astonishing, sound is great, but the rest 
 is way below expectations. This game is very demanding in terms of hardware, but there are few 
 soldiers on maps - sometimes it's look like they are deserted, AI is often plain stupid and sometimes 
 hard to kill. In my opinion there is something strange with shooting, lots of times I've loaded 
 whole clip from assault rifle to guy standing 2 meters beside me, and he was still moving! Other 
 thing little annoying is difficulty level. After 2 hours getting familiarized with new maps I've 
 tried expert difficulty and I won 3 maps in a row with tickets above 140! It wasn't very challenging... I 
 don't have good broadband connection, so it's important for me that single player is fun for longer 
 that 3-4 hours. It's still one of the best shooters today, but perhaps mostly for multiplayer game. 
 Not necessarily must buy for those without good broadband connection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fbdofsdness
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  It's exciting to get more maps to add to the others. Unfortunately, most of them or no fun at all. 
 The night battle element is actually more annoying that new and fun. Only a couple of maps are 
 actually pretty fun. The thing I like the most is new weapons because many of them are really cool. 
 The only problem is that there aren't that many new ones. Two other cool additions are the grapling 
 hook and zipling. It's fun to try to find obscure places to look ever the battlefield from. Because 
 only a few maps or actually fun, I can't say I would recommend this as an addition to BF2 unless 
 you really want the unlocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: contrafreak
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game was so horrible that when i finally got it running, it made me shat myself. the graphics 
 suck. everyone online tk's and acts retarded. there are only 5 new weapons. and only 5 of the maps 
 are playable on singleplayer, which is like 10x better than online. i have more fun rolling around 
 naked in a bush while i'm screaming in pain because my flesh is melting off. tis game sucked! hardly 
 any new vehicles and 30 bucks? what the hell??? anybody who likes this horrible game obviously 
 isn't a true gamer. that's why i give it a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cardiozibi
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  When I've first heard about this expansion pack for one of my favourite games, I was very excited. 
 But my excitement was slightly diminished when I first saw my friend playing it. Nonetheless I 
 decided to buy it, and that was a good decision. Maybe it isn't exactly what I've expected, but 
 is still a very good game. It has its disadvantages but IMO "global score" for BF2: SF is very 
 positive. I'll try to describe two or three things that, IMO, have to be fixed in the future.
 
  1. performance - BF2 without SF run really nicely on my Radeon X800Pro, even when I turn on almost 
 everything it has to offer when it comes to graphics, quite differently SF. Sometimes in multiplayer 
 mode I have some problems with performance even on "medium" settings.
  2. weapons for all - maybe it's only my opinion, but I think that new unlocks should be accessible 
 for all teams, not only those theoretically stronger (i. e. Navy SEALS, British SAS or Russian Specnaz)
 
  3. no planes - maybe a new map with some planes? I'd love it!
  I recommend this expansion pack to every BF fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agunst99
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  as we all know battle field is the best on line game or game for that matter. i think that this 
 lived up to its expectations to. this game is very easy to play its just like battle field 2 i 
 think that the night time gives it a cool effect and this game really makes you work as a team 
 uecausee you have a repeling thing and another gun to get up and the other one is to get down but 
 there is a catch none of them have both so you really have to work as a team. the guns in this 
 are also better i think the graphics are insaaaaane they rock just like bf 2 this game is a most 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeyandreous
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 27, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 special forces is the god of all war games, your can do pretty much anything a real 
 soldier can do, from killing with fully armoured veichles and using heavy duty guns to flying and 
 repairing aircrafts! There is a few downs to this game,
  1. It can be very slow
  2. It has high requirements for your computer to have
  3. It takes up alot of memory
  
  But 
 its still a good fun, good graphical game to play.
  THE MULTIPLAYER
  You may have played games with multiplayer action but not like this one, battlefield allowes you 
 to apply to be the commander of a server and you can see what everyones doing from anywere you 
 are using gps technology, and you can drop supplys, send guided missiles and much much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: survivorejam
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  So I recently changed to a new PC (happy happy joy joy !) but after also moving to an new (upgraded 
 house) I can not find my original cd key anywhere ! (sad sad spewin spewin) . Thanks to the Spec 
 Ops add-on though I was able to get back online.
  
  Also you must know that unlocking the upgrades for Spec-Ops will also unlock them in the plain 
 BF2 game. 
  
  That means that you have some unreal guns to chose while others are unlocking guns for roles they 
 have never (and will never) play. Oh and the new maps are devine (of course) . The Gatore map is 
 just so crazy you have to try it . Also there are heaps of new elite units to choose from. But 
 like the main game you can't mix it up and have to go with the set armies prechosen for each map. 
 I can keep raving on but you can read the proper review for that. Simply guys : it's worth the 
 couple of $ to add more variation to your stratergies. Plus it's so refreshing running across the 
 top of buildings and gliding down a zip line your squad sniper sets up for you (yes everyone can 
 use the zip line even the bad guys) . Stop thinking about it and just buy : I promise you'll like 
 it. DeathJem out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyrosFury
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 23, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Special Forces expansion is insanely addictive and there is no reason you shouldn't 
 already own this if you own BF2. While not much in the way of graphics or sound was changed, the 
 gameplay has been completly altered, allowing the veteran players to develop new strategies and 
 the casual players to wreak havoc.
  
  Additions - Before, you had to download a night mod to get night maps, now, several of the missions 
 the expansion comes with are nice, dark maps with spots of brightness. The addition of the grappling 
 hook and zip-line are awesome, but the zip-line will certainly get you killed in the middle of 
 a firefight.
  
  One of the overlooked additions is the teargas grenade, which can wreak havoc on the enemies (and 
 friendlies, if your not carefull) vision, allowing a quick and brutal slaughter.
  
  The maps, although few, are now a bit smaller, do not contain flying vehicles (except for the occasional 
 chopper) , contain indoor areas, and are much more vertically orientated, due to the addition of 
 the grappling hook.
  
  My only beef is the amount of maps, which is very few, and the fact that its still a system hog, 
 but an expansion can't fix that, can it?? Can it??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 21, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I loved the original Battlefield 2, I have played it a lot and enjoyed every moment (well, almost 
 lol) so I decided to get this update as soon as possible.
  
  I bought the game through the EA download service, all very easy and worked perfectly. It installed 
 and I was playing within a few hours of buying, just how it should be.
  
  The first thing I founf was that you had to re-patch the game as soon as you have installed, it 
 would have been nice to have had this poiinted out to me as I couldn't play until that had been 
 done.
  
  Once I got in though and connected to a game I started to enjoy myself. I love the night vision 
 stuff and the emphasis on having to sneak around more. It was much more my speed of gameplay and 
 I did a lot better in this version than the original.
  
  The thing that put me off a little bit though was that it all started to seem very 'samey' after 
 a while. I think that I got a bit bored with it and so ended up going back to the original version 
 of BF2.
  
  The other thing was that it really kills your system. It grinds it almost to a stop when the settings 
 are all turned right up.
  
  But I would advise everyone to give it a go, it is fun and well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadGeorge987
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 21, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  As the expansion pack to Battlefield 2, Special Forces has some big shoes to fill if it's to qualify 
 a purchase. Unfortunately though, those shoes are a size too big for Special Forces. 
  
  The overall game-play of Special Forces, much like its predecessor, is quite good. It retains all 
 of the new and innovative features Battlefield 2 had, while adding some more. 
  The large-scale warfare still works well. Players choose from a variety of kits and fight for their 
 army for map supremacy, which is achieved by holding control points. Control points are nice because 
 they dictate the flow of battle so people know where to find the fighting. 
  The features include: 6 new armies to use, 8 new maps, new gadgets (flash-bangs, tear-gas, night-vision, 
 grappling hooks, zip-lines) , new weapons (new unlocks) and new vehicles. However, with new technology 
 comes various new exploits, to make game-play less enjoyable, and there are quite a lot thus far. 
 
  As always, single-player is very limited, only allowing you to compete with 16 bots on the various 
 maps. The AI seems slightly better this time around, which definitely helps the overall value. 
 
  Multi-player remains fun with all of Battlefield 2's features intact, such as the commander system 
 and the sqaud system (chain of command) . The new maps play quite well, but are not as memorable 
 as the older maps. 
  A great feature this game has is connectivity. Special Forces players can access old games and 
 use their new weapons and gear in them. Similarly, thanks to a recent patch, vanilla BF2 players 
 can access these weapons when their former users die. 
  As in the original, only one factor brings down the multi-player: net coding. Even with a high-end 
 computer, you may experience unexpected lag and slow-down, but for the most part it's getting better 
 through recent patches. 
  
  There is absolutely nothing to complain about, on the technical side. The new armies feature new 
 uniforms and new, unique quites, even if they are in different languages. This game looks and sounds 
 beatiful. 
  
  So far, the game sounds like an excellent deal. The problem? You're paying about the price of a 
 retail game just for an expansion! Now, the only type of expansion that deserves to cost the price 
 of a retail game is an expansion which features some very new innovative features. I personally 
 think Special Forces was a great time to bring back more advanced naval comabt that BF:1942 got 
 to experience. 
  Plus, EA is releasing another expansion-type add-on which focusses in Europe. With 3 BF2 games, 
 who's going to want the one in the middle? 
  
  All in all, I only recommend the buy of Special Forces in special conditions. If you absolutely 
 loved BF2 and wouldn't mind paying more than needed to get more content, then by all means, go 
 ahead and have fun.
  Otherwise, stick with BF2. It's a great game, and will continue to be a great game, even without 
 Special Force's extra content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcohSS
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 21, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  Well, if snappy graphics and a lot of pointless running around is your idea of the greatest game 
 ever, prepare to be dazzled. Chicks, and guns and firetrucks... well, there aren't. Just the guns. 
 Lots of them. They sound. They look good. They even give you one. Over. And over. And over. Want 
 to know what it's like to be in the special forces? Well, constantly spawning in after you die 
 stupidly isn't going to do it. As with the other horrible games in this wretched series, your goal 
 is to run in circles and shoot people. If this is too complicated, you can drive in circles and 
 shoot people, or even fly in circles and shoot people. Bottom line, you're a cyber chimp in this 
 game. Instead of flinging poo, you're flinging grenades. I'd say this is like a fishing game, but 
 that would be an insult to fishing games. The lack of any coherent story or structure truly infuriates 
 me with this series. I could have a sock puppet and have more fun than playing this game. Just 
 eye candy and running around. And people are just eating it up; EA is laughing all the way to the 
 bank. One dimensional game; and proud of it. What a waste of development dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calypso409
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  I have been a battlefield fan since 1942 came out.... ive played them all and i honestly think 
 they are just getting better and better as they come! i recently picked up this expansion and im 
 glad i did! it added a load of fun into an already extremely entertaining game. i mean... night 
 vision, grappling hooks, zip lines, protective masks, etc what more can a guy ask for?! not only 
 do you get to blow stuff up, but now you get to play with awesome tools! there was one map i played 
 where i was on a rooftop and took a hit. i had no idea where it came from so i took cover. after 
 i pulled out the ol' night vision goggles, i was able to see a sniper on an adjacent rooftop and 
 take him out! EA did a good job in giving the players new maps which gives them the oppertunity 
 to use the new additions. all in all, this expansion pretty much just made an already addictive 
 game much more addicting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battousai188
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Just like any expansion the gameplay, graphics, sounds are about the same. BF2 SF adds several 
 new maps and teams to play as. New teams are British SAS, Navy SEALS, SFMEC, Insurgancy, and Russian 
 Spetsnaz. The new maps are really hit or miss though. with original BF2 I really enjoyed all the 
 maps however in BF2 SF some of the maps tend to lack content or direction. The game was released 
 with several bugs and let downs, for instance having to do several re-installs of the who game 
 including BF2. The bugs can be looked past since EA will obviously fix them. Another flaw noticed 
 is the Airborn badge that requires flying in a jet and kills in a jet in one round in SF, however 
 there is not a map that offers a jet to be flown.. Overall for the 29.99 it was a nice expansion 
 with some cool new features like tear gas, grapple hooks, flash bang grenades, and ziplines, but 
 lacked so much. Hopefully the next patch fixes these holes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jan 17, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Ok, well after having a whiny little mod delete my last review, I'll write a "less offensive" (aka 
 Less Honest) review. This game is a total waste of time. EA took no time to even repair Battlefield 
 2, and they release this crappy expansion, thinking that people will rush out and buy it to fix 
 the glitches. Well, newsflash: EA doesn't care about you, the customer, so long as you pay for 
 their crap. Look at the Booster packs. Thats proof enough that they don't care. They're making 
 you pay for patches now. This isn't the way Battlefield was meant to be, and because of this, I'd 
 recommend staying away from any and all expansions made by EA for BF2. If you want good gameplay, 
 wait for some of the mods to come out, and download them. It'll save you money, and the modders 
 actually care what the community wants. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cricketboy2238
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 17, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 was one of the biggest and most engaging shooters of 2005. Its addictive game play, 
 system taxing graphics, and monstrous levels make it a tough game to look over for any PC shooter 
 fan. It adds many RTS style elements to a genre that heavily lacks innovation and new ideas. Most 
 consider it the first worthy successor to the smash hit, Battlefield 1942. I find it worthy of 
 a purchase, even having enjoyed Battlefield Vietnam just a year before. Special Forces, the first 
 official expansion pack, brings more fast paced game play to the table.
  Having played Special Forces for a few days now, Im more pressed to say that the new features 
 dont constitute the admission price. Special Forces is a good expansion in regards to the obligations 
 an expansion must fulfill, but there are only six new maps. Several of the new classes, such as 
 the Insurgents and the Rebels, use the exact same weapons as the Middle Eastern Coalition team 
 found in regular Battlefield 2. The British SAS, which are used in a small number of the new missions, 
 have an all new line-up of weapons. Theyre good fun and all, but you can unlock them in regular 
 Battlefield 2. Instead, I ended up paying $30 for this. Special Forces doesnt expand very far.
 
  I remember StarCraft: Brood War and WarCraft III: The Frozen Throne as expansions that could have 
 sufficed as their own, stand-alone products. I have become accustomed to seeing my dollar go further 
 after plopping down a grand total of $80 on one game. With Special Forces, this is just not the 
 case. Its a very small addition to a decent sized game. When Yuris Revenge came out for Red Alert 
 2, there was really no reason to ever go back to regular Red Alert 2. I cannot say the same is 
 true for Battlefield 2: Special Forces.
  While this is a very good game and I will continue to play it, I cant recommend it because it 
 doesnt really push the game any further. Its basically just Battlefield 2 with some missions 
 that take place at night, which then requires you to use your awesome Special Forces training and 
 press a key to activate your nightvision. Its a solid addition to my favorite shooter of 2005, 
 but there are more reasonable uses for $30.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: footpunker60
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jan 16, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I don't recommend you to buy this game, cause in fact, there is nothing that much new. There is 
 two big thing... nightvision and The Hook (which the sniper can't use and it's with the snipe i 
 would had use it.... so i have to find a sniper gun on the ground somewhere) . This is one point. 
 Now the thing that is bothering me most is that they did not merge both game.... It's like 2 separate 
 game... If they would had done that I wouldn't even complain about anything but the fact is they 
 are separated and i don't believe people cares about playing russian or bristish or us... just 
 give us the hook and the grapplin in BF2 and lol it would do the job but no... we gotta pay the 
 big prices for it... You gotta find something better to do with this $$$. Don't buy that game keep 
 playing battlefield 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberMonk31
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  After going through the maps, and seeing/using the extra add-ons. I have to say it feels more like 
 a counter-strike game than a battlefield 2 expansion. I was expecting new types of gameplay or 
 maps. But I found that the extra tools and vehicles just didn't work well. "Quick strike jet-ski 
 & ATV" well not only were they a pain to drive, they didn't do much for gameplay either.
  
  I would have liked to see civilians added to maps to add more realism difficulty, maybe even as 
 rescue missions. Or even "go in and capture their leader & bring em home" missions. Something a 
 little more than just point capture and ridiculous onslaught of forces running at you on these 
 new maps. "Special Forces" are for strategic strikes or missions, not grunt work. The battlefield 
 involves strategy and I found these new maps lacking in that department. Instead they gave me a 
 nifty little zipcord or grappling hook. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  There's some really great new content in Special Forces that builds on the strengths of Battlefield 
 2. Special Forces adds a total of eight new maps, including a spaceport complete with a launching 
 pad and rocket, gutted-out cities, an airfield, and an island. All these maps have an infantry-heavy 
 focus, even on their larger, 64-player variants, and that's good news to Battlefield 2 fans, since 
 the most popular levels in the core game are the urban ones, such as Strike at Karkand. The other 
 good news is that the expansion features a number of urban levels similar to Karand and Sharqi 
 Peninsula. In fact, they may be a bit too familiar, as there are some buildings and objects recycled 
 from the core game. Still, there's enough new content in the levels to differentiate them from 
 their predecessors and to provide more urban playgrounds to romp around in. For example, there's 
 a palace level in which one side has to battle through a city to the palace's gates and then into 
 the palace itself, which provides a large mix of indoor and outdoor combat. Yet perhaps the best 
 new map is a reverse amphibious assault, in which the Middle Eastern Coalition forces must board 
 and take over a US aircraft carrier defended by Navy SEALs; the action takes place on the carrier's 
 deck, in its vast hangar bays, and in its corridors and rooms below.
  
  Meanwhile, there are six new factions in the expansion, which is a big number considering that 
 Battlefield 2 itself only shipped with three. These new factions are needed to justify the scenarios 
 (for example, Russian special forces versus an insurgent group, or British SAS versus a different 
 type of rebel group) , though one of the disadvantages of having six factions and only eight maps 
 is that you see factions only once or twice throughout the game. You still can't mix and match 
 factions and maps to create different face-offs (DICE says this is for balance purposes) , so it 
 seems like you get to see your favorite new faction on only a couple of occasions. Then again, 
 the factions are all fairly interchangea 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SH_guY
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 13, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  special forces is a good expansion to one of my favourite online FPSs.
  much like the original, special forces has fantastic graphics if you hav a high end graphics card 
 to run it (much like the original bf2)
  music once again is non-existant, however the sound affects for artillery, helicopters and tanks 
 are nice if your wearing headphones or have good speakers.
  this however doesnt make up for alot of issues which plague special forces such as maps. many of 
 the maps are nowhere as enjoyable as the original bf2 ones, and although can provide you with a 
 few hours of entertainment, chances are you'll get bored of them very quickly. lack of vehicles 
 is also a problem and in my opinion greatly decrease the fun factor that was offered in the original. 
 you could only really enjoy this if you enjoy urban warfare, night fighting and using tactics and 
 squad/teamwork to win.
  another downside i find is that many of the new armies have weapons merely ported over from the 
 original armies. the mec special forces, spetsnaz, rebels and the insurgents all have the same 
 weapons as the mec from the original bf2.
  
  in conclusion, if you enjoyed the original and are looking for more of a real urban warfare kind 
 of game, then special forces is definently for you. however, if you enjoy the original bf2 and 
 dont mind missing out on a few new awards and weapons then your best to steer clear of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n8n77
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jan 11, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  This expansion was not only a waste, but a centeral reason why I never trust consoles NOR the publishing 
 companies. They try to tell me what will be fun & pre-maturally release and pressure devolpers 
 TOO EARLY... 
  -Sorry for the rant. 
  I did buy the title & orginal from retailer locally with great hopes. (Mainly hoping for MORE MAPS!! 
 ) - This is not the reality of my expereince.
  There are TOO many problems for me to list. But, the main and biggest problem is how the marketing 
 of the game EVEN after I purchased wanted me to shell out more money for tips and directions on 
 basics (like bindings, player rankings, editing tools, etc...) . The load time got WORSE not better 
 (- I run I very decent system that plays Quake 4 deecent) .
  I would recommend that EA, NOT! point this title as a success. 
  I love MMO-fps (quake3, unreal, 
 etc...) . I paid maybe $50 back in 2003 for Savage... It still surpasses this game for continuous 
 online fun, plus the updates (in this case downgrade!) I don't pay for!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jared_febb
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 11, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  There are some redeeming qualities about BF2 SF but value is not one of them. The maps are a nice 
 change as are the new weapons. The gas mask and night vision are a nice touch but gas is pretty 
 much pointless since everyone is automatically given a mask. It hurts your stamina when you use 
 the mask but not enough to validate the strategy of using gas. The night vision is good but again, 
 everyone has it so there is no real advantage to either side. They should have given only certain 
 classes the mask/night vision to make it more interesting. 
  
  All and all it is a good expansion but I would wait until it hits 15 to 20 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dykker9
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  There is only two things that i dont like about this game... 
  
  1: The damage from all the weapons on ranked servers lets you take to many hits... If you get hit 
 buy a 50. Cal ( Barret M95 or the hummer mounted Browning M2 ) you will have a hole the size of 
 a soccer ball in you...
  
  2: You dont stop ore fall to the ground when you get hit...
  
  The best thing about the BF2 series is that you have a profile... it has stopped players from 
 shooting on friendly vehicles just so they can get them... and the talk over has improved the team 
 work... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  A great expansion that concentrates more on the infantry/CQB aspects established in previous Battlefield 
 titles. New weapons, new maps, new scenarios, new gizmos. The Special Forces characters get a grappeling 
 hook and zip line to climb up or slide down, and the Support Class gets a tear gas gun and flash 
 bang (WAY over used by some already!) . Most of the bugs present have been coded out of the expansion 
 or done away with by the patches for B2............ so this product is quite mature and gives you 
 the graphics, sound, gameplay, and non stop blast fest EA & DICE intended. I would have prefered 
 a few more new vehicles, and weapons, but those are really nit picks. And............. there's always 
 the mod community, if you don't like the stock flavor! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 700652948163
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Get ready for all out war with special forcesBecome an elite soldier or insurgent in the secret 
 war for control of the modern worlds most strategic locations. Fight intense online battles using 
 the latest weaponry on land, in the air, and at sea. 
  Battlefield 2 Special Forces takes the intensity and quality of Battlefield 2 behind the scenes 
 of news headlines, showcasing the most elite and deadly forces in the modern military world. Using 
 accurate special forces weapons, gadgets, and vehicles, these covert armies battle to control key 
 military and strategic locations. 
  In Battlefield 2: Special Forces, players will choose to fight as one of 6 different Special Forces 
 soldiers  Navy SEALs, British SAS, Russian Spetznas, MEC Special Forces, Rebel groups and insurgents. 
 Armed with the latest special forces weaponry, players can take control of any of the games 10 
 new vehicles to engage in major conflicts with up to 64 players. Additionally, persistent character 
 growth allows players to continue to rise through the ranks. 
  The Battlefield 2 game engine and physics system brings the modern battlefield to life like never 
 before. The material penetration feature measures weapons ability to fire through barriers based 
 on their composition and players will need to know the difference between concealment and cover 
 in order to survive. 
  Team play features allow players to enter the action on the front lines as part of a formal squad, 
 or work behind the scenes in Commander Mode to direct the strategic assaults of their teammates. 
 
  But just like game spot says when the next patch comes out this will be a lot better, thats the 
 (v1.12) patch.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redsucklingpig
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  I love this game & get endless hours of fun from it. If you are prepared
  to work in squads with a medic, re supply assault etc, you will overcome
  the other team. If 
 you just run around from place to place you will struggle.
  Learn the maps, it takes time but is well worth the effort. Be inventive &
  think about your 
 team mates, DONT just drive away in a jeep or boat on your
  own. Give people a lift - it makes taking a flag much easier. Even if you play
  as engineer & 
 just repair team vehicles you are keeping the team mobile.
  Everyone is an asset. Listen to your commander & watch out for artillery
  strikes.
  The only 
 bad thing to say is the amount of BUNNYHOPPING IDIOTS !!!!!
  out there. Real soldiers do not jump up down to avoid bullets. Also
  people who kill teamates 
 to steal a Tank, plane etc - you deserve to be banned. This game is in my opinion superb fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Eagle_2004
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Look out Americas Army, Battlefield 2: Special Forces might put you out of business. 
 Battlefield 2: SF is expansion pack to the best multiplayer game to hit the PC. If you played the 
 original Battlefield 2 it's pretty much the same concept and if you haven't read my review on Battlefield 
 2 to get more info about this game. Special Forces adds new weapons, armies, and vehicles. The 
 new weapons you get is the zip line the you can use to get into another area faster. Grappling 
 hook is great to get onto roofs that you can't normally reach. Tear gas can make the players eyes 
 water up making vision all blurry, it feels like you are under water and it can make you cough 
 and the enemy will hear where your location is at. Lastly is the flashbang, the player will be 
 blinded by a white flash for about 5 seconds or more. But there are also gas mask to avoid the 
 tear gas and nightvision goggles to see at night. Along with the weapons are new unlocks you get 
 and use during gamplay and can use in Battlefield 2. Also new are the vehicles and they are two 
 new attack choppers, several attack vehicles, ATVs, jets skis and civilian vehicles. Along with 
 all this you get to play as six new factors which are: Navy Seal, SAS, Russian Spetsnaz, MEC Special 
 Forces, Rebel, or Insurgent. These factors are closely related to our world situations, I am guessing 
 EA wanted to make it more realistic which is great. Last is the new maps which are in urban areas 
 or in military bases. One map is the Iron Gator which MEC vs. the US, this map isn't very good 
 cause it's almost impossible for the MEC team to storm a US carrier that is very closely guarded 
 by the US team. The negatives in the game is that when you first buy it you have to download the 
 patch in order to play it, very slow load times and most of the maps aren't really that fun.
  
  Graphics: Once again if you have a great system, then the graphics will be really beautiful. 
 Even if you don't have a good system you will get descent graphics but I suggest that you get the 
 upgrades to your PC.
  
  Sound: Just like in Battlefield 2 the sound just make you feel that you are in a actual battle. 
 
  
  Battlefield 2: Special Forces is also great multiplayer game. Very closely to Americas Army but 
 much better than it will ever be. If you like sneaking around and going stealth then this is the 
 game to be for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanconnery31
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  The expansion pack to one of the best video games of 2005 has finally arrived, and the question 
 that is asked to mos gamers is, "Does it live up to it's hype?" The game is 30$, which is actually 
 quite expensive for an expansion set, and many people wonder if this game is worth it's price. 
 Unfortunately, the answer is a mixed bag, and there will be fans that like it, and fans that won't 
 like it as much. "Battlefield2 SF" still is tons of fun, and has plenty of extra goodies that will 
 definitely appeal to Battlefield fans across the globe.
  As far as good news goes, "Battlefield2 SF' adds more vehicles, more weapons, more maps, and different 
 varieties of new classes. Each of these small details adds more replay value to your Battlefield 
 2 game. In fact, if you play in a regular Battlefield2 match with your expansion pack cd in your 
 drive, you will be able to use the equipments and weapons from "SF", that other people will not 
 be able to use, unless they purchased the expansion themselves. This is actually one of it's strongest 
 features of the game, because it makes you a more sophisticated, better equipped and powerful soldier. 
 You can also use flashbangs to blind a nearby enemy, or launch tear gas to drain your victims energy 
 and sight. Both types of these grenades are great in many different opportunities and tense situations, 
 but you really won't be using these weapons that much since the combat of the game is usually in 
 long and far distances. But, players will be able to use objects such as grapple hooks to climb 
 buildings you've never climbed before, or zip-lines to escape enemy firefights. Both of these pieces 
 of equipment are incredibly handy in "Battlefield ground", because defense and cover is one of 
 the key elements of surviving. Still, this game needed more extras , and we expect more for a 30$ 
 price.
  The bad news is, the game is laggy as hell, even more laggy than Battlefield 2. The server is still 
 unorganized/clumsy, and the loading times are longer than ever. Obviously, this is "Battlefield 
 2 SF's" low-point, since
  playing the actually game takes a lengthly process, requiring the player's
  full-time status 
 and attention. If EA fixed these technical problems, the game would be a fantastic expansion to 
 one of the greatest first-person shooter's in history. These bugs and slowdowns are unacceptable, 
 and MUST be repaired immediately.
  For me "Battlefield2 Sf" was an average expansion set. The game simply needed more things to do, 
 and it could have been perfect. Also, EA definitely needs to fix some of it's technical and bug 
 issues in it's slow server. But, if you are a fun of the Battlefield series, you may want to pick 
 this up at your local game store, because there is still some cool goodies found in this package. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_ferret123
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  how could they make the game of the year better??? they add 8 new maps, zip-lines and grappling 
 hooks, smoke grenades, tear gas, night vision, gas masks, new weapons, new nationalitys, new voice 
 overs, new vehicles including jet skis and ATV's, night maps, and more ways to over all make your 
 experience on battlfield 2 better. whatever you can think of, they have it. its mouthwatering to 
 a fan of battlfield like me. its jsut overwhelming. i love it and it is the greatest expansion 
 in gaming ever. buy this game, and you will have over 200 hours of gaming experiences that are 
 just out of this world ahead of you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonnyhe2002
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  The game have nice grapihic and all. But to tell the truth i was expecting more from this game. 
 It have the usual wepons and the same sound effects. But i was expecting more like new game play, 
 a cornucopia of new weapons and missions. 
  But don't get me wrong this game is still a above average shooter, it can compete with F. E. A. R. 
 and call of Duty. But believe you, me; This game is going to let down a lot of people and will 
 be forgotten when the next shooter comes out.
  Dont take my word for it . try it out for yourselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mojeeb4u
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 4, 2006 3:17 am PT
Review:  * * * * * * * * * * * * B A T T L E F I E L D 2 S F * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
  
  I told you not to read the text . . . but i think that you are of the same kind all people are.
 
  you will surely be dissapointed after reading this review as I LOVED THIS GAME.
  THIS GAME IS THE BEST
  YES THE BEST
  
  hmmm ... that is it . . . ta ta
  
  now what are 
 you waiting for . . . please leave this page imidiately . . 
  yes thats right .. GOOD BY
  
  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2nd_II_None
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  GS is totally right about this game, i went over to a friends house to play this game and we could 
 hardly get it started when we loaded it. This game has some major bugs in it, but once it gets 
 playin its really fun so, if you think your computer can handle it, go get it, but if you have 
 the first Battlefield, just stick with that one, you'll probably get the same experience from that 
 game, but if you want the 8 new levels, get this. Overall its just an average game, not much better 
 than the first, buggier, but ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grentz
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Special forces is a worthwhile addon that gives a good collection of new maps and gameplay.
  
  Some of the features, like the grappling hook to get in places you normally cannot get, i wish 
 would be implemented on the original BF2 as it unlocks so much more fun and areas of the map.
 
  
  The SF pack maps are fun, but sometimes the dark maps get annoying. You often find yourself in 
 situations where the enemy can see you and you cant see them. That gets frustrating fast. But this 
 is not all about Night Maps. There are some very good daylight maps, and some of the dark maps 
 (like night flight) prove a lot of fun. 
  
  The addition of new vehicles like 4wheelers also adds a neat new feel.
  
  If you like BF2, 
 you should like BF2 SF :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreepBraker
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is really nice to play, still if you have a bad computer and a bad Internet connection.. 
 don't buy it. Require lot of memory (like Bf2 itself) and a good Internet connection so you can 
 have problems on dial-up. Without multi-player online... nothing, single-player mode is really 
 boring (for me) .. I mean. not very realistic. Multi-player mode rocks.. still there is some bad 
 players who like to teamkill all the way just for fun, its really cool when people play seriously. 
 New maps are cool and I love the new rope you can shoot anywhere and climb. My opinion is that 
 this is not the best game I ever played.. I mean .. its a normal shooting game with good graphics 
 that makes you feel bad after 1 month.. this is making lot of computer geeks. There's nothing spectacular.. 
 I prefer skills learning games like Gunz Online (simple but has something nice in it) .
  So that's my opinion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Special Forces has great graphics and sound graphics that if you turn on high you see a difference 
 a BIG difference, their is no way that you can turn the dynamic lighting or just plain lighting 
 on high without a top of the line graphics card, (everything else you can such as texture, geometry 
 etc.) . 
  
  Sound is great different languages Russian, Arabic, British Accent XD, Engilish, and even though 
 the Chinese are not in SF they still have them in BF2. New weapons and awards. 
  
  Some problems with this game is that their server filter/search is slow and most of the time dosen't 
 work if it dosen't then you have resart the whole game again. No problem with Single player just 
 wish that for the people who don't play online and play single player more i wish that they had 
 put the award system in their too. 
  
  The best part of all the BF/2 games is the multi-player you get awards online you want to have 
 good internet so you don't lag down when you find your-self in front of an enemy and he knifes 
 you. 
  
  The last thing i have to say is that www. bf2s. com and www. bf2tracker. com will display your stats/awards/unlocks 
 so players can still see them without the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: briancbare
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  BF2 came into play and blew us all away with not only stunning graphics but excellent game play 
 being based off of the ever famous Desert Combat mod. Just as I was sitting saying to myself : 
 What do I do now, EA released Special Forces. Special Forces has come forwarded and added those 
 items that we could not do without. - Flash Gernades, Tear Gas, More Weapons, and more vehicles. 
 One shot with the grapling hook and you will see why life is grand :) Minus your few little glitches 
 that are ALWAYS present in games, I give this game a **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalXIII
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:59 am PT
Review:  BF2 SF is a really fun game to play! It has new things like grappling hooks and flash band grenades. 
 Wich had to the total choas and fun of the game. Also there are night maps wich are my favorite, 
 using nightvisoin to fin your way and grappling walls and staying in the cover of darkness is fun. 
 But the day maps are too much like regular BF2. I dont even like them that much, sure Ghost Town 
 is fun and some others but they are too much the same. If you have Bf2 this is a must! Also more 
 unlocks and you can use the unlocks in regular BF2 also flashbangs in regular Bf2 also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peanut51594
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 27, 2005 2:02 pm PT
Review:  It's an outstanding add on to the game, and yes I am aware of the fact thats all it is, is an expansion. 
 I am, however, have to agree with some other comments I'm seeing around the boards. There could 
 have been more to this thing. Glad to have the game, and its still fun. Just needing a little more 
 to it is all. A little more variety in the maps, maybe a few more of them. Something that I can't 
 quite pin point. Regardless I still think its good and if your a fan of the series and haven't 
 picked up the expansion yet by al means do so. Just don't expect huge leaps in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NbaDanny15
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 26, 2005 2:45 pm PT
Review:  OK so your wondering if you should pay 30 dollars for this so called BF2 expansion in the series. 
 The final thought is simple, BUY THIS EXPANSION!
  -It delivers New weapons/New Maps/New Character models/New vehicles! This is what it was meant 
 to be. although it may take time off your watch to load the map and jump right in, in the end its 
 worth it. Your teammates jump in the game with u in squads and your commander buzzes everyone to 
 do what is told. If you listen and you use your strategies with yourself and your teammates this 
 game will deliver so much addiction its unbelievable. Time spent on this and regular BF2 for me 
 is quite long lol. This game is just amazing with the new grappling hook/zip line and guns PLUS 
 the new vehicles which helps you get around to kicking some butt. The maps surprisingly keep the 
 value of this game going and not going into mush. If you loved the original maps then you will 
 be satisfied my friend. Great Graphics/Great game play/AMAZING sound/Great value and over all the 
 tilt is just phenomenal!
  
  WORTH EVERY PENNY
  SO JUST GO OUT AND BUY IT
  
  MAKE SURE U EXCEED THE MINIMUM OR YOU WONT ENJOY THIS AMAZING MODERN COMBAT GAME
  
  AMEN TO 
 EA BUT IT DOES NEED PATCHES
  SOON THE PATCH WILL HIT THE NET AND IT WILL IMPROVE THE GAME PLAY
  
  ENJOY THIS GAME!
  
 
  UNTIL THEN... IM OUT PLAYING
  
  MSG ME IF YOU NEED ANYMORE INFO DEPENDING IF YOU WANT THIS HIGHLY ADDIVICTVE GAME.
  
  -1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irongrinder1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 4:05 am PT
Review:  The first, but probably not the last expansion for Battlefield 2, contains some great stuff to 
 enhance your experience. It changes the original game play a bit by adding more sneaking (night 
 maps) and more possibilities of finding and killing your opponent (zip line, grappling hook) .
 
  
  The new stuff:
  The zip line is great for going from one roof to another as is the grappling hook for climbing 
 up walls. It opens up new possibilities and would have been great if it was also added to the original 
 maps. Karkand would have become a lot less stalemated and the experience would be refreshing again. 
 
  
  Other new things are flash bangs and teargas. They don't really add much to the game, because 9 
 out of 10 times people use them the wrong way. Flash bangs can be used to take out choppers, but 
 most of the time people only use it to blind teammates at the heli-pad to take the chopper before 
 they do. Teargas is mostly only interesting in indoor fights, but with a simple press on the 8-button, 
 your gas mask will shield you from its effects.
  
  So are these new things worth the hassle? The zip line and grappling hook are. I still use them 
 a lot in the new maps. The flash bang and teargas on the other hand, could have been left away.
 
  
  The new weapons and vehicles:
  What's that? New weapons and even new unlocks? Yes that's right, new unlocks. But, you can't use 
 the unlocks in the SF maps (apart from the armies that use them as standards (SAS, seals for some 
 weapons) , only in the original maps. In other words, make your online opponents, who don't have 
 SF, jealous so they'll also buy the pack. 
  
  The weapons themselves are good though, adding some more different styles to some kits. For instance 
 the engineer kit doesn't have to rely on shotguns anymore as the MP7 can do a great job for them 
 and is a fully automatic machine gun. But as said before, the MP7 can only be used in the original 
 maps, or when you are on the SAS team as they use it as a standard.
  
  The vehicles are a welcome addition, but don't add anything special to the game, apart from the 
 little buggy's which make for easier teamkills as they seem to blow up with just a little bump 
 (Always fun when a team mate tries to drive past your pick-up truck and crashes into you with their 
 little buggy and you get the teamkill and suicide points reduced)
  
  The maps:
  For me, the maps were the biggest reason to buy the pack. After a few months the original maps 
 got boring. And with the rankingsystem not being able to be included into custom maps, it left 
 me dreaming of new ranked maps.
  
  So what of the SF maps? There's eight maps in total. Three of them are night maps mostly based 
 on infantry. The gameplay here is very different from the original game because of the nighttime. 
 All three of them seem very well balanced, but can take up quite a bit of memory with it's nighttime 
 effects. 
  
  Two maps are urban maps (one of them with choppers) , both of them garanty some intense fighting. 
 One of them (Ghosttown) is also a sniper's dream. I hardly cared for sniping in the original maps, 
 but now with the zipline possibilities and a great map like ghosttown, sniping has become very 
 interesting.
  
  Then there's two widespaced maps based around a bit of Russian country side with some light and 
 heavy armor. The look and feel of those maps can be a bit dull, but nonetheless they are nicely 
 balanced and can be great fun. 
  
  The last map is set in, on and around a US navyboat. The idea is great, but the map ended up being 
 a big laggy maze. because of that a lot of people ignore that map. 
  
  Bugs:
  What's an online game without bugs lately. Battlefield 2 is no different with its share of bugs 
 which still haven't been solved completely after a few patches. The expansion doesn't change much 
 here and possibly only adds a few. Apart from that, the new awards system doesn't seem to work 
 completely. According to the community a lot of the possible awards are just not attainable yet 
 or haven't been thought about. For example the Aerial Service ribbon. It is obtainable according 
 to people who looked into the code. That's great, but there are no planes in the expansionpack, 
 so why already put it in
  
  So what's my conclusion? It has some great additions to the original game. Ofcourse it has it's 
 flaws, but for the usual price of expansionpacks, it's a welcome addition. Apart from that Dice 
 still supports the game by making patches for it. So give it a patch or two and it might all run 
 perfectly (crosses fingers) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeguy220022
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2005 11:26 am PT
Review:  You look at this game and say wow a l33t sequel to a l33t game. Well it could have been. Just the 
 stability issues held it back. Guess who released a beta for a final... again. I am just mad cause 
 all the money i spent. I still like the games. This is one of those games you get a paint ball 
 gun to shoot at it when your friend throws it in the air when you say "pull". Sadly thats more 
 fun then trying to get the game to work and writing endless emails to EA saying "help this game 
 is going to a blue screen" Yes, I wrote that a week after the game came out and i do not have a 
 response a month later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahumut_b
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 9:39 am PT
Review:  Despite the hype that surronded the SF expansion pack to BF2, it delivers a pretty average peformance. 
 Whilst I do recomend buying it, I will caution you do not expect much more than a mod pack.
  
  As for the new features
  
  Weapons:
  Most of them just look entirley different but still 
 have the same amount of power etc
  
  Vehicles:
  As with the weapons, Most of the vehicles are just the ones from bf2 with different skins, however 
 there are some notable exceptions e. g
  
  The Quad Bike - Fast and maneuverable however i wouldent fancy your chances if you crashed
  
 
  Gadgets:
  Now we come to the bit you've all been waiting for - the special forces gadgets! These are the 
 saving grace of the SF expansion pack. They include
  
  -Zip Lines
  -Grappling Hooks
  -Tear Gas
  -Flashbangs
  -Nightvision Goggles
  -And Gas masks
  
  Overall: This is a must 
 have for BF2 owners, however just think of it as an official Mod 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewiseyoda123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 1:49 am PT
Review:  Its a real nice game. But DICE could have done a lot better at this. The only issue i had with 
 this game was the lagg in all of the servers i went. it was hard to find a server below 100 ping. 
 Looked like DICE slaked on optomizing the net code for this game. Anyway the addition of waepons 
 and vehicles are awesome and upcoming patch fixes some of the known problems here specifically 
 the ATV sucide bombers (grr) .
  
  for 30$ its a decent game although i have expected more from this expansion pack. hopefully DICE 
 will adds some nice maps and possibly new vehicles in the future to both BF2 and BF2: SF.
  
  overall i would say if you enjoyed the original BF2 then by all means get this game. if you 
 didnt like Bf2 you prolly wont like this game also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaun373
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 19, 2005 10:25 pm PT
Review:  When reviewing this I had to remember that it is an expansion pack. As far as expansion packs go 
 this is a very good one. It adds new weapons, factions, maps, and vehicles. The new factions are 
 a nice, but not neccessary. Whether you are SAS, Navy Seal, Russian, Arabian, Insurgent, the game 
 plays the same, minus the fact that there are different guns/vehicles for the different factions 
 but they all equal out in my eyes in the long run. Some of the vehicles are really cool like the 
 six wheeled dune buggy with guns, guns, and more guns. Some aren't very functional like the ATV 
 and skidoo. The new weapons are where the game shines. Most of the new weapons are really cool 
 additions. The new maps however make me want to cry sometimes. The devs just got a little over 
 abmitious. I find myself running around the maps going, hmm if they had only changed this, or hey 
 thats a nice idea but I would have liked to see it done this way instead. There is also the noticeable 
 absence of new weapons for the Sniper class. Bottom line is that it looks like the devs took the 
 time to really make everything and then ran out of time for the maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatmarik
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2005 3:07 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game ever, i got it and it is kick @$$ and also check out my bf2 clan www. cgc. tz4. com 
 and www. cgc. freeandinstant. com. this game has everything you would ever imagine. it has shooting 
 and the helis are great and the guns are amazing, best gun there is is the new mp7 it rocks and 
 the map warlord and the ghost town are simply unbelievable and the graphics look amazing. the grapple 
 hook and the zip line are really cool too. and the flash bang granades and the smoke bombs are 
 cool to use and the night vision helps you out alot. it is the best game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RX786
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2005 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield2 is a example of new thinking FPA game; highly focused on teamwork, and I love it!! 
 Although I haven't played those previous series...
  
  Anyway~ that's not my point. I believe that the people who study guns know that EA game didn't 
 put all the existing advanced firearms into BF2, also I personally think there are too many AKs 
 in BF2. ( Cheap guns do no good )
  Chinese can keep their AK, but not MEC!! Because that kind of middle east infantry can get their 
 weapons from Israel, such as the latest bull pop assault rifleTavor TAR-21 ".
  
  Also, if you've played CS before, you must know the FN P90, it's from the same company that makes 
 F2000. Project 90 ( P90 ) the personal defense system is designed for people who do not battle 
 at the first line, such as engineer, but since they are issued a MP7 it is OK.
  
  BUT!! the anti-tank specialist, they unlock a semi-auto shotgun as award!? What is the point? Although 
 shotgun is powerful but it doesn't work in a opened situation!! So why don't EA give the anti-tank 
 specialist P90!? ( 50 shots per round)
  
  And the every last thing is that US army does not use berreta anymore, well some do... Today, they 
 commonly use USP or Mk23. So if EA game can fix these few points, I guess the game play can be 
 more successful.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBeen4488
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 5:30 pm PT
Review:  If you r looking at a game the has good graphics, asome levels, sweet guns and cool gun fights 
 then this is the game for u. In relation to Battle Field 2 this extention is way more then you 
 could hope for alsome it has 6 kits and 3 upgrades for those kits. THere is a number oppersitions 
 u can play for yuor team example.... 1 Commander which lets you give orders to sqaude leaders and 
 use the 5 commander abillitys Scan, Artillery, UAV, and supply drop it asome lets youhave a birds 
 i view of the hole map......@ Sqaude leader lets u command your sqaude around the battle field 
 and lisen to the commanders orders your sqaude members can alsome use sqaude hop which lets you 
 be a mobial spawn point for your sqaud......# Sqaude member lets you follow your sqaud aroung and 
 ask your sqaude leader to ask for thing s supplies and UAV you can asome sqaude hop which i explainded 
 before......4 last but not lest Lone Wolf unfortunit there is no special abillityes for this persition 
 the only good thing is that you dont have any orders you just do what you like. There are cool 
 and exitening veicals in BF2 SF like the humvee, boat, copter, jet ski, and ATV just to name a 
 few. OK got to go have dinner this is Mattydog waitting for u on the battle fiend GET THIS GAME 
 cya!! transmitin  } } } } . [ { { ]  ] [. **** lol!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackattacka
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 10:31 am PT
Review:  I love this game, it's what BF2 was missing. The graphics in this expansion keep great. The game 
 play is awesome, there is a lot more action in the expansion. I love the new equipment in this 
 game. The one downside about the equipment is that not all classes have them, everyone can have 
 a gas mask, and night vision, but I mean not everyone can have the cool stuff. They should have 
 put some more stuff into it.
  Now, the vehicles. Overall the vehicles are pretty cool. The jet ski's I didn't really like, but 
 it's a great way to swiftly maneuver around the map. There are some other vehicles, basically an 
 added vehicle for every type. The ATV totally rocks in this game by the way, it's fast, small, 
 and good way to get around.
  The new guns are sweet, they are all basically Lone Wolf type guns, the kind a squad would really 
 use behind enemy lines. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stoiber
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 17, 2005 8:50 am PT
Review:  Once i beat the actual made i moved on to the online play and compared to the campiagn it was 20 
 times better even though the campiagn was great the online play was awsome so this is 1 of my favorite 
 games ever even if you have never played this game before you dont even need to rent it this game 
 has hrs of gameplay for you to enjoy so get out there and buy it now o man i still have to keep 
 typin this is gettin borin lol well i hope this is 100 words nope not yet well lets get back to 
 the game in this version you can be terorists the us and many other places is you enjoy first person 
 shooters this is the game to buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peter_rafterman
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 4:00 am PT
Review:  First of all, I bought this expansion pack mainly because I loved the idea of more "Suburban Combat" 
 levels, the idea of sliding from one sniper spot to the next sniper spot with the Zip Line, the 
 idea of climbing to the top of the building with a grapple hook then taking out a tank from the 
 roof ("hehe, he never knew what hit him") , and the knew weapons. What brings this game down, is 
 the thought that this game got shipped out way to soon. "Bugs sir, millions of 'em" (i quote the 
 cheesey slogan for the....*sigh* game Starship Troopers) . The idea I'm attempting to put in your 
 head, that you must be some kind of Messiah if you get this game working the first time round. 
 You need to install a patch before you install it, and then after you install it. You may run into 
 problems with the patching errors, or maybe the dreaded "This server is for unmodified content 
 only, please revert back to the original version blah blah blah" when you infact, you haven't touched 
 the game folder since you installed it. One just gets the feeling that EA have thrown this game 
 to the shelves after the huge success of BF2, plainly to give the fans more of the best part of 
 the original.... to make more money... there I said it. On the other hand, the new weapons are a 
 blast, the new forces are fun to be a part of (though I think they may have been making fun of 
 the British SAS accent. And it is a lot of fun using the new equipment, especially when you actually 
 need to use them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_ANGRYMAN
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 15, 2005 1:16 pm PT
Review:  I love BF2. Sure, like most, I wish the BF2 community would work better together (the VOIP is there 
 for a reason guys!) , but all-in, it's still a fantastic game.
  
  BF2 SF, on the other hand, has turned a great game into an aimless game.
  
  Part of the reason 
 BF2 is good is because the map designs force some pretty intense battles to take shape. And the 
 soldiers' capabilities force players to duke it out. Good fun.
  
  However, in SF, with grappling hooks, zip-lines, flash bangs and tear gas, the intensity seems 
 to be quelled somewhat. 
  
  Now, these new features are good, but they don't work as well with the original BF2 game design, 
 which has been more-or-less re-hashed in this expansion pack. To make SF better, I would make original 
 maps and features that are more goal oriented, as opposed to control-the-flag oriented. I find 
 myself in the SF maps wondering where everyone is? Why no one sticks together? Why are there no 
 flash points culminating in large scale battles? Well, I have a hunch - they're all off trying 
 to hook, zip-line, flash bang or gas there way into a flag area - solo!
  
  Good fun, maybe. But, it would be made better with improved map design. As it stands, the BF2 engine 
 makes for relatively poor indoor maps. There are severe clipping issues and our avatars seem to 
 float about. Not as crisp as, say, Call of Duty (the first one) . So, even if SF were given better 
 map designs to better cater to new capabilities, it would still likely result in tigheter maps, 
 with more indoor arenas that make for sloppy game play.
  
  I don't know if this is resonating with many, but I think this nuance is what has been bothering 
 me about the SF. Simply, it's just not as tight as BF2. 
  
  Eventually, as with most, I wound up playing BF2 very shortly buying SF.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: terrancemulloy
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 14, 2005 6:46 am PT
Review:  The most annoying thing about EA and BF2 is not the system crashes, the million patches you need 
 to install, then reinstall again so the game works, the almost non-existent EA customer support, 
 the sketchy in-game lag, the very bad server lag issues, the fact that you can unload a full clip 
 onto someone's head only to be owned by their 1 shot... it's not any of these things... it's the 
 fact that if this game was properly executed and actually finished it could have be the best online 
 war / shooter game ever!
  
  The concept of BF2 is one many gamers including myself love the idea of. The problem is that EA 
 have released not 1 but 2 games that don't even work with each other properly. What have we done 
 (except hand over over $80 of hard earned cash) to deserve this? EA almost punish the consumer 
 for buying this game. They present us with a game that almost requires a University degree in computer 
 programming just to work the bloody thing. And if thats not bad enough you need to login at least 
 twice before the Account Server accepts your account details.
  
  And just to top things off - before you rush out and buy this game, jump onto some of the gaming 
 and BF2 forums and read the horror stories many people are experiencing, like being booted off 
 for TK'ing when you haven't done a single TK at all.... catching my drift?
  
  If you want a solid, reliable and relitively bug free online shooter look at Counter Strike: Source 
 among others... There's plenty of worthy titles out there on the market... games that offer the same 
 intensity and fun you're looking for....
  
  oh and most of them, if not all of them are actually finished!
  
  Shame on you EA... shame! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingDisgrace
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 13, 2005 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Special Forces is yet another update (I say another in addition to the patches) 
 to Battlefield, arguably the best first person shooter released this year, and is sure to hold 
 up for many years. But EA may have cut a lower part of the market, those who are strapped for money, 
 from Battlefield 2 by adding another 30 bucks to add to the 50 you already spent on BF2 when it 
 released 6 months later. Some of those who buy it may not even be able to play without being crippled: 
 There have been bugs in EA's online distribution service, and to add on to this, you'll need to 
 set aside another 2 gigs in patches to update to 1.12 (about half a gig) and the actual expansion, 
 which is in all, 1.5 gigs. EA has not made this a poor man's game: And it shouldn't: Dice and EA 
 have taken aim for the most immersive gameplay in an FPS in SF, with options for everyone: New 
 accessories, vehicles, weapons, armies, maps, and anything a true gamer will whine for months on 
 end. SF puts a pacifier on those whiners: The only grumbles or complaints you'll hear are from 
 those who have trouble running the game... The only problem is that number is quite extensive, 
 so EA will have their e-mail boxes full of complaints and troubleshooting requests heading their 
 way until they patch once again.
  
  But enough about system requirements: Is the game now better if you can play it smoothly? Let me 
 answer that now: Yes. 8 new maps, many of them urban, come into play to entertain gamers, along 
 with grappling hooks, tear gas, night vision, new vehicles, all of them stressing one thing: Ground 
 pound it, soldier! Infantry has been rewarded with new toys, and one essential element: Darkness. 
 It's now possible to fall into darkness without detection: Tanks will still kick your ass if you 
 come face to face, but the chances of that are lessened with grappling hooks, ziplines, tear gas 
 and flashbangs made for infantry to scoot away from certain death: Infantry combat is now recommended, 
 and squads who operate as one unit will flourish: Medics healing, machine gunners resupplying ammo 
 and those assault grunts taking out ground troops can create a team that can run over those who 
 are weaker than them and still hide from those who are stronger from them. EA and Dice are geniuses 
 in this respect: Gameplay is much enhanced, although those who don't have the expansion may groan 
 and moan as those with SF can take their new toys and demolish those who haven't departed ith 30 
 bucks to get SF. Graphics are still the same, but new vehicle, weapon, and player models are brilliant, 
 adding a underlying touch of brilliance. Also, sound is furhter improved as well: With 6 new factions, 
 new radio transmissions are top-notch, as well as weapon sounds and overall ambiance: You may just 
 soil your pants if that tank shell explodes behind your fat little ass. This is a good thing. A 
 goood thing.
  
  In all, SF is brilliant, continuing with what the game brilliant, and adding new objectives and 
 elements of gameplay sure to keep loyal BF2 owners going for years. The only question you could 
 rise against EA is this: Why wasn't this a patch? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nekt
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 13, 2005 11:50 am PT
Review:  As the rest of the reviews state, Special Forces is far from a complete game. 1/2 of the playable 
 sides have no new weapons, meaning everyone plays brit/us, making it a crapfest on the dirka dirkas 
 almost every match. What this means to the player, is that one must connect to multiple servers 
 to even find a game thats remotely even. To complicate this process, the server filters STILL do 
 not work. I find it almost amazing that a game releases an expansion, for 30 bucks no less, that 
 dosnt even implement the very basic features required to play. Ive almost given up trying to find 
 servers to play on because of these stated problems. Save your money and play on actual even games 
 in normal BF. Sure the server filters don't work there either, but at least one is not forced to 
 play on the gimp dirka side every match unless they dont mind stacking the english teams even more.
 
  
  Oh, if you can get in slightly even server, the game rocks as long as it does not  
 on you.
  
  The russian/rebel maps are good, except that they are usually more influanced by vehicals.... which 
 this mod is supposed to avoid?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khanezhyray
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 12, 2005 7:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is an amazing expansion for EA's battlefield 2. I love Battlefield 2 and this expansion 
 only made it better. As long as you have at least an Nvidia Geforce 6600+ card, you're fine for 
 this game. The issue is if you have an ATI card. Since EA has endorsed Nvidia, if you have a ATI 
 card it makes the load times horrible. 5+ minutes to load a map. With nvidia cards, it takes less 
 than 2 minutes. I personally think this is horrible, even though I prefer nvidia over ATI.
  
  Back to the game review. This game is AMAZING! The addition of night combat makes the game 
 significantly better. More vechicles = more fun. Especially the ATV's and Jetski's. The game also 
 has a much larger focus on infantry combat, with as far as I know no planes whatsoever in maps. 
 The weapons are significantly better as well, though this causes a problem making the unlocks not 
 as good for the original bf2. Another great thing is that once you have SF, you can unlock SF weapons 
 to use in regular bf2 servers. The addition of the zipline and grappling hook make the game significantly 
 better as well, because you can get places faster and it gives you better position to attack or 
 snipe.
  
  Pros: 6 new sides, loads of new weapons, new vehicles, 8 new maps, night combat, grappling hook, 
 zip line, the maps are made so that grappling hooks and zip lines are useful versus pointless, 
 more focus on infantry combat.
  
  Cons: Those Airplane fanatics from bf2 will not be as much a fan of this game (I personally think 
 they're kind of cheap for bf2 anyways) , Really long load times for non-Nvidia graphics card owners, 
 a couple slight glitches but nothing truly noticable and game affecting.
  
  Conclusion: A must buy for almost all bf2 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackie05
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2005 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game looks awesome im getting battle field two for chistmas then the same day im getting this 
 game i cant wait only two more weeks keep up the good invinting im a big fan ever since 1942 came 
 out peace. I like the weapons in the game the units the way you have the game setup. The thing 
 that suprised me was just looking at the gameplay in the game this is a game worth spending $30.00 
 on. There both awesome I already bought battlefield2 my untea is keeping it until christmas but 
 who cares only to more weeks before im on my super computer giving out orders to my squad thanks 
 for the awesome game keep making them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkswordsmen11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 8:53 am PT
Review:  
  Alright, well in Battlefield 2's expansion Special Forces you will get new features such as
  
 
  - New Badges
  - New Ribbons
  - New Medals
  - New Guns (Unlockable on BF2)
  - New Vehicles
  - New Maps
  
  Badges are slightly harder to get then the ones you have gotten 
 in Battlefield 2, Army ribbons are easy if you have time. The medals are what I'm not to happy 
 about because they require a massive amount of game play up to 1,500 hours of total game play.
 
  
  The new unlockable guns are okay but I would have to say the f2000 (Assault Gun) Is overpowered. 
 
  
  New vehicles are a nice bonus, and they seem fine to me.
  
  The new maps are very nice, tons of ways to get to the flags so thats a bonus for anyone out there 
 that likes flag capturing.
  --------------
  If your looking to buy this Expansion, I would say go ahead. Although it's a little buggy it's 
 still a great deal. 29.99 (as of 12/11/05) for new maps, new armies, new vehicles, and awards It's 
 a great deal. Although you may find yourself playing Battlefield 2 the original game more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omer_r
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2005 5:39 am PT
Review:  because it has new cars and new weapons and a climbing rope so i can surprise someone from the 
 back while he is waiting to me from the front (ladder) and can go up to everywhere i want with 
 a ladder or without
  so i can go to the top of the building and shoot them all muhahahaha
  the best game ever! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
  go and buy it what are you waiting for? ? ? ? ? ? ? 
 ? ?
  it's the expension pack for the best (first place fighting game) game ever
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeatMith
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 3:24 am PT
Review:  BF2 is a brilliant game , BF2 SF adds new dimensions to the formula . The new maps whilst in some 
 ways slightly resembling old maps , they invoke a new tactical thinking , unless you play on a 
 public server in which case they are just nice maps to run around killing . The night maps especially 
 add great depth to the action and create a sense of intensity , not experienced in BF2 . The new 
 weapons , nice to have something new but I can't tell much difference to the older ones . There 
 are a few new toys which can really change the gameplay , The most signifgant new addition to your 
 arsenal is the grappling hook or the zip line , however the level of signicance depends entirely 
 on the level of teamwork used by a squad . These new feature , and heavily focused infantry make 
 for a more enjoyable experience than the original .
  So.. I think it's pretty damn close to perfect - the gameplay that is. Everything outside of the 
 gameplay is woeful , personally I had only slight problems installing it , but read a couple of 
 other reviews and and I seem like the odd one out . But perhaps the most painful part is the load 
 times - BF2 was bad , think EA might improve things ? more efficient coding ? . Hell No !! It is 
 substantially worse , the verification of client data takes longer too . I'd advise against ever 
 changing you video settings unless you have something to do for an hour while the "shaders are 
 adjusted" .
  Once you get into the game probably the best gaming experience ever , but thats after you get in 
 to it .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewezzy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2005 5:21 pm PT
Review:  GET THIS OR YOU"LL BE BEAT WITH HAMMERS!!!!!! You need this game .Especially if you have Battlefield 
 2. Hands down a must have. Battlefield 2 is the greatest multiplayer on the pc ( besides World of 
 Warcraft) . Battlefield 2 is just unbelieveable and hard to stop playing. This isn't your average 
 FPS multiplayer it an unstoppable force that makes everone want it. That is why people should buy 
 BF 2 & BF 2: SF. IT was worth the wait and the wait is over. So go out there and buy this game. 
 But make sure your computer can handle such a beautiful game. "With a great game comes a suped 
 up computer "that what I always say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n1rvana8706
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 8:19 am PT
Review:  The game overall is very good. Adds many new maps which everyone is very good. Lots of close range 
 combat, which is one of my favorite parts of Battlefield 2.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are just as amazing as regular battlefield 2.
  
  Sound: 
  Also just as good as regular 
 battlefield 2.
  
  Performance:
  Depending on what pc you have it runs fairly well. Lower end pc might have problems. My computer 
 runs it fairly well.
  Radeon X800pro 256 agp
  AMD Athlon XP 2400+
  1GB RAM
  Audigy 2
  
  Gameplay:
  No new game types, but many new additions for new gameplay. Grappling hooks, ziplines, 
 many new vehicles, and weapons. This expansions adds up to one of the best games of the holiday 
 season.
  
  Overall:
  This game is well worth the 30$. Could have been a little more content but there is enough to make 
 me happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chillay
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2005 2:41 am PT
Review:  I have to say its the best online game ever made... for starters you can use microphones on it 
 as well as text to communicate with friends.
  It has great graphics, but you can change how good you want the graphics to turn out so you can 
 get a fast game.
  Make sure you have a good computer and a good internet conection, and try find servers that are 
 in your country so your ping wont be high.
  
  Basicy there isnt really any big glitchs.
  And if you are in a locall serva u dont really get any lagg.
  With this expansion it adds on 
 some great tools like flash bangs and zip lines and also brings some new ranks and unlocks.
  
  A question that is asked alot is can you use the new weapons in the normal battlefield and 
 the answer is yes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer9965
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 8, 2005 9:16 am PT
Review:  This is such an immersing expansion... 
  
  BF2: SF offers many new features to the already great Battlefield 2, inclduing weapons, vehicles 
 and cool new maps.
  
  The gameplay offered by this expansion is great, teamwork is the key to winning. The new maps help 
 to expand the teamwork and offer a great chance to use the newer weapons such as grappling hooks 
 and zip-line. The new vehicles are quite cool offering a new range of wepaonry sich as ATV and 
 civilian vehicles.
  
  The graphics are outstanding, even on my (low spec) computer however i do not recieve lag which 
 is great!
  
  All in all, a great expansion to a already great game!
  
  By, Gamer99
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoperBoh
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 8, 2005 7:52 am PT
Review:  First up I wanna say that the BF2 collection is a good collection to have in your privtate stash. 
 The single player runs quite fine, but thats is not y ppl are purchasing the game. As BF2 multiplayer 
 runs flawlessly I have to be a little harsh bout BF2 Special Forces. I like the extra's included 
 in Special Forces, but what bugs me a lot is the slow running of the game. 
  However this is, i am hoping, a temp. problem that will be fixed any time soon.
  
  If you are 
 looking for a 1st person shooter with ability to sail, drive and fly
  Battlefield 2 Special Forces should be in your collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danielson68
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 6, 2005 8:56 pm PT
Review:  There are too many delays in loading and while playing. Its unplayable at this time. I look forward 
 to the patch, but until then I guess I'll have to play some other games. What's up with EA wasBF2: 
 SF just rushed out for Christmas? I know Im not the only one upset with the problems with it. 
 I went through all the loops tuning off all background tasks taking time, then there's the load 
 time, then the log in time, then if your lucky to find a low enough ping rate, and then there's 
 the load time that has been extended from BF2, and also there's is time lost in all the jumps and 
 skips in the game it's self,  
  
  NOT PLAYABLE AS IS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorth
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2005 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Hey, this game runs fine with me, more relying on ground pounding makes it more fun also, dont 
 get me wrong you can still fly a heli and hurt some folks, but i love the ziplines, night vision, 
 and think it adds alot to the game...
  
  The new maps are fun, if you squad up and play as a team and not as an individual, but if you do 
 have a bunch of newb get ready to get takin down to one flag and gettin owned.
  
  Personally i like the mod more than i like b2, but to each their own of course, but i have heard 
 alot of folks that played b2 for 10 hours and hated it, cause they didnt take the time to play 
 the game right, squad up and play as a team.
  
  I also believe game spot did the same thing this mod should be at least a 9, buy some more memory 
 a better vid card, update the game correctly and go have some fun...................... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriggerHappy203
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Let me get one thing out of the way: BF2: Special Forces is great. For me, at least. I'll go over 
 my first play session, the map "Night fight" as an SAS operator.
  The MEC are backed up into their last spawn, the Air Traffic Control tower. However, the approach 
 is deadly, because they have sniper and machine guns everywhere, to say nothing of the entrance, 
 which is heavily covered. The entire team rolls up in vehicles; I was in a stolen russian APC, 
 with 4 people inside, the machine gun and main cannon firing all the way. A pickup with a mounted 
 MG, an ATV, 2 Hummers and a car were all rushing up besides. Once we got within 500 feet of the 
 tower, we started attracting machine gun and RPG fire. Everybody piled out of the vehicles, minus 
 the gunners who were suppressing the defenders. My squad was one of three that was going to charge 
 the entrance, guns a' blazing. A few machine gunners started firing their MG36's in bursts at the 
 windows, and we rushed up under their cover. Once we got within range, my squad started pelting 
 the entrance with tear gas, and once we got REALLY close, flashbangs. Equipping our gasmasks, we 
 sprinted up and pretty much ventilated the lobby with bullets. I used up 2 FN F2000 magazines and 
 a grenade besides.
  We won. 
  And that, folks, is BF2: SF. If you are playing on a Pentium 4 3.2 Ghz, 2 GB RAM, X850 XT Platinum 
 PC. If you have a dated PC, don't even try. This game is a system hog in every sense of the phrase. 
 However, when everything 'clicks,' your team is cooperating, and the game runs well, BF2: SF is 
 an experience like no other. However, besides the new maps, there isn't too much new material here. 
 If you have $30 burning 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popsadent
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 6, 2005 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 Special forces is good, if you think a crappy game with tons of bugs is fun, then 
 youll have a hell of a time.
  
  Just try installing the game, You gotta get a patch then install, then get another patch. Then 
 you get an error and have to start over. 
  
  The bugs are terrible. They can make the game impossible to play, Literally.
  
  The graphics 
 are probly the best thing the game offers. though still not great.
  
  The sound is probly the next in line if there was one. The guns all make some sort of noise though 
 they seem like they should sound more powerful or like they dont have any force to them.
  
  The interface is pretty clinky.
  
  The gameplay was ok but could have been better if worked 
 on a little more.
  
  The value of this game is crap. They rush a buggy game into stores just before the holiday season 
 with a high price tag. EA seems like they just want your money now days.
  
  No tilt to this game. PERIOD.
  
  All in all this game was poor in quality. I suggest not making 
 a purchase of this title, but if you must i suggest you wait for EA to work on a patch or two first. 
 
  
  I am starting a boycott of EA now. You should too. If we dont buy the crap theyll stop making it.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joewind
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 6, 2005 7:29 am PT
Review:  I give EA/Dice credit. BF2: SF is a beautiful game. The levels are very detailed, and provide some 
 fierce combat. That said, I was able to play BF2 (patch 1.03) on my computer with almost all the 
 settings set to high with very little frame rate problems. After this expansion pack and patch 
 1.12, I am required to put my game on LOW to even connect to a server. And with it on low, I sometimes 
 can play for hours with out incident and sometimes I can play for 30 mins before my FPS drop from 
 80 to 20 and I lose connection to the server. 
  
  I am not sure what the problem is, but when they advertise the game: 
  
  ".. uses some of the 
 most advanced rendering techniques available today for special effects and to achieve real-time 
 performance for a great game playing experience. The game was largely developed and tested for 
 NVIDIA GeForce FX, 6 series, and 7 series graphics cards and the intended experience can be more 
 fully realized on NVIDIA GeForce 7 Series graphics hardware. On a Geforce 6800 or better you will 
 be able to turn on all of the NVIDIA special effects features at higher resolutions in the game."
 
  
  And my rig is:
  AMD 64 3800+ X2
  Abit AN8 SLi (Nforce 4 using driver 6.70 and bios 19)
  BFG 6800 GT OC (PCI-e using driver 81.94)
 
  1 GB of Kingston Hyper-X PC3200 DDR (4 x 256 MB)
  SB Audigy 2 ZS
  Western Digital 160 GB SATA HD
  
  And I have a friend using an older AMD 2800+ with an ABIT 
 NF7-S and a winfast Geforce 6600 (AGP) graphics card and he is able to play the game with things 
 on medium, and I am required to play on LOW with the 6800 graphics card, something is wrong. I 
 can only hope EA / DICE will come out with a patch to fix the last patch or else I may never play 
 another EA game again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eckozero
Rating: 2.4
Date: Dec 5, 2005 11:35 pm PT
Review:  I loved BF2 but hate EA and their 'do it now' way of doing things. The SF expansion is unbelievably 
 bug filled and not worth the money I payed. This is coming from a huge BF2 fan. It should have 
 been free. It might be worth 10 bucks if it was bug free. Hopefully EA will respect their fan base 
 one day and start holding games until they are 100% complete. Wait a year until they release an 
 update... or think about it. This was another one of EA's 'make a good game and then squeeze the 
 money out of the fans' type scheme.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentSmith34
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 5, 2005 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this is an expansion pack to the hit PC game Battlefield 2. First of all, you should note that 
 you need a really high powered PC to experience this game to its fullest. Basically, if you could 
 run Battlefield 2, then you'll have no problem running this. Ok, you also need a copy of Battlefield 
 2 to run this game. Lastly, you need to download patch 1.12 in order to play this game on line, 
 as it fixes glitches and allows use of the new weapons. Ok, lets get started then.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Wow, the graphics in the expansion are amazing. Besides just being the same as 
 Battlefield 2, they also added new effects and character models to the game. New effects they added 
 are the tear gas effect, where everything becomes fuzzy and wavy, and it makes it very hard to 
 see. Then their is the flash bang effect, in which you see a bright white light, and the effect 
 lasts for about a minute or so. Then their is the character models. EA has added over 6 more character 
 models to match the factions in the game. Two minor complaints are, the jag-gies and the lag. The 
 character models are great, but they look a little jag-gie and the dying animations could use some 
 work. And, the lag can sometimes be unbearable, but i guess it just depends on the connections 
 of the people in the game. Also, the game requires a high end PC to experience the game to its 
 fullest. But, don't let that make the game unbearable to you, it's still a beautiful game.
  
  Sound 10/10
  
  Ok, wow. What with the voices of the soldiers, the explosions, the tension, 
 the gunfire, i could go on and on, but the sound in this game is amazing. Especially if you have 
 surround sound, you practically feel like you are in the game. Overall, im not going to get too 
 in-depth with the sound, but EA really struck it big time with the game's sound.
  
  Game play 10/10
  
  A game is nothing without its game play. You will love the game play, period. 
 OK, when you join a server, you get to choose one of the six factions. Either be the Navy SEALs, 
 British SAS, Russian Spetznas, MEC Special Forces, Rebel groups or insurgents. Then, join a squad, 
 and apply for commander. Don't wanna walk, ride in one of the 10 new vehicles. Wanna try something 
 new, try one of the 6 or so more new gadgets. This expansion is focused more on infantry combat 
 rather than vehicle combat in the original Battlefield 2. If you want more in depth game play information, 
 look at reviews for Battlefield 2, as this is just an expansion, but it feels like a whole new 
 game.
  
  Overall 9/10
  
  Have Battlefield 2? Looking for some new maps, vehicles, factions, gadgets? Or are you just looking 
 to expand your fun from Battlefield 2? If you said yes to any of those, buy this game, now. One 
 complaint is that it takes a while to download everything, but once you do, don't stop playing 
 this game. See you on Battlefield 2: Special Forces! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: take_this
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 5, 2005 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Probably the best of the series. Great graphics and it lets you do teamwork. One thing bad though 
 was the updates you have to install for it. You've got to install on in the beggining and in the 
 process of installation. The best levles are the night levels, the urban combat is the best. The 
 new vehicles are cool, but vehicles aren't as important in special froces then in BF 2, special 
 forces also gives you 6 new factions, but you don't see each one very much. SF is an amzing game 
 and I think you will think so too. So if you love BF 2 you'll love it's expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: levethane
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 5, 2005 4:58 am PT
Review:  Special Forces has the features to be a really great game. Most of the maps are well designed, 
 the sound effects are exellent and the new night maps add some much needed variety into the Battlefield 
 2 world. But, in my opinion, EA have pushed this game out the door to cash in on the holiday rush 
 before it was ready. 
  
  Within a few minutes of joining a server (and this was after applying the 300meg patch) I noticed 
 problems. The biggest is the games performance. If your thought BF2 was a system hog wait until 
 you play Special Forces. On a 64 player server running 'Gator' it became a complete laggy mess. 
 The BF2 engine was not designed for this close indoor room over room action, throw in teargas, 
 flash bangs, helicopters, boats, machine gun spam and clueless newbies running around the gameplay 
 bogs to a crawl at times. (running a AMD 64 3500 with 2gig of ram and a X850XT video card) . Even 
 the story of MEC Special Forces storming a Nuclear Carrier is ridiculous, were the entire 3000+ 
 crew members out having a swim?
  
  Players who enjoyed the more infantry based maps in BF2 may be slightly disappointed to find many 
 of the SF maps still cater towards helicopters and tanks. I was personally a little depressed to 
 see so many vehicles thrown into what was esentially a infantry based addon pack. Some maps like 
 Mass Destruction can be controlled by an effective chopper crew. As their are no jets and little 
 air defense the choppers only threat is another enemy chopper. (small arms fire still has very 
 little impact on helicopters) .
  
  There are also many bugs (check some of the forums for the complete lists) that should have been 
 removed before this game was shipped. Medics unable to revive fallen comrades even when they are 
 calling out for assistance, players surviving .50 machinegun rounds, players getting stuck to objects 
 (more common in the interior areas) many of the annoying hitbox problems from BF2 are still present 
 as well.
  
  The load times are longer than BF2's and seen most of the maps are smaller I have no idea what 
 the reason is for that, and changing your graphic settings will still put you through the age long 
 wait as the game 'optimises textures for best performance'.
  
  There are some very good parts to Special Forces though. The nightvision is well implemented. Flashbangs 
 and teargas are very effective at clearing rooms, the sound effects, especially the guns sound 
 excellent and the new SAS British Accents add some colour. Most of the new unlockable weapons are 
 a good step up from the standard BF2 range although the sniper and Antitank class don't receive 
 any changes except for a new, more usless antitank rocket launcher. The Hind, BMP and the Apache 
 are welcomed new additions. The other new vehicles are fairly ordinary even though it includes 
 the novelty jetskis. It's a pity that the MEC Special Forces do not have any bonus guns though 
 so you have to make do with the standard BF2 arsenal. 
  
  If you cannot get enough BF2 and have grown tired of the standard maps, Special Forces should help 
 fill the void, provided you have the hardware and patience to put up with the games problems. My 
 only tip is to buy it in the stores, the EA download system has received numerous complaints about 
 it's unreliability and slow performance.
  
  My final thought is this game feels more like a map pack with some new features than a new game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niceblunt
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 4, 2005 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Recently I went and bought bf2 sf and i have to say im a little disapointed.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are still good but the only problem is you just can't see them half the 
 time. I supose that is the price of making night time levels. Most of the time they are ether pitch 
 black or green with night vision. on the daytime levels they are still the high quality graphics 
 we know and love.
  
  Gameplay: The gamplay is better ever with the new additons such as the grapling hook and the zip 
 lines. the other addition is night vision which is sort of a love it or hate it divice because 
 the night level tend to be for the more hardcore players and can be way to difficult.
  
  Sound: The in the game is exelent especialy if you have a nice speaker system. the weapon sounds 
 are acurate and the sound over all is great there isn't much more to say.
  
  Value: this id were the game is hurting is that the stability is terrible. The load times about 
 twice as long now and it doesn't matter how good the gameplay is if you can't even play.
  
  overal: this is a game for the hardcore fans who just can't live without it. Just hold off if you 
 want the most out of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nubie453
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Its great playing against other people in missions sometimes u just have to take the lead and sometimes 
 you have to follow the graphics are amazing in my opininon the gamplay is decent and the guns and 
 the fun of it is outstanding! best first person shooter yet! this is just a major improovment to 
 the first person shooters i loved it wow can you get into this game it grows on you the more you 
 play it this is a must get for sure it has so much options this is more than an ordinary one by 
 far dont miss out on it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Titan124
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:31 pm PT
Review:  So we have night vision that is never needed, a gasmask that looks silly and generic in first person 
 and is mostly uselss, a bunch of new skins (or armies, think what you will) , some new weapons, a 
 grappling hook, a zipline, some new-but-useless vehicles, and some new maps with new causes for 
 lag (yay!) . What does this sound like to you? a) $50 b) $30 c) $20 d) an independently made mod. 
 Chances are you said D, like me.
  
  Let's start out by saying one thing, I would think this was worth maybe $20, however, DICE allows 
 mods, and even included an easy to use mapmaker/mod creator. The mapmaker is reminiscent of the 
 starcraft one, though a little less intuitive. Because of the mapmaker included, all the maps seem 
 completely pointless and, though very good, can't be considered a major feature. 
  
  The gameplay is laggier than ever, and many of the additions are plain stupid. Night vision is 
 completely useless. It will never give you any advantage, as all maps are lighted enough to see 
 clearer than with the green. It's honestly just like putting a green film on that makes it harder 
 as all the street lights illuminating the battle get in the way. Now had they included thermal 
 vision, it couldn't have been completely useless. Then there is the gas mask. I'm not sure how 
 gas is even released, but the few times there is toxic gas, yes, it's useful. The downside is once 
 you're exposed to the gas, putting the mask on doesn't simeem to do anything. Also, the mask looks 
 dumb, generic, and out of place. 
  
  The new armies and vehicles are simply new skins. They introduce nothing new. 
  
  Perhaps the 
 only good things are the flashbang, grappling hook, and zipline. The flash bang is a bit cheap, 
 as it renders someone blind for as long as it's active (which is a long time) . The grappling hook 
 and zipline are 2 great innovations to the game that almost put it ahead of a mod. 
  
  Perhaps the reason this game seems so much like a mod is because many people who created created 
 desertstorm. in fact, I'd compare this mod to desert storm, just a little below. Now given that 
 desert storm was free and better, and this is $30, well, you be the judge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happy2012
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 16, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Problems have been fixed with the new patch which took forever to get out.
  
  The game has many problems and has little support from EA. I wouldn't buy this game again! If any 
 body says its good they are a liar and should stop playing games forever. The game has crashing 
 problems for online play. Also it has problems with the award system in the new update. The update 
 that came out with the game didn't work and caused more problems than it fixed. If they could fix 
 the game it would be cool, but Im not seeing this happening anytime soon. The game play is fun 
 when it works, but it will let you down after it crashes a couple of times in the middle of action. 
 I have a fairly good computer and I have been playing the original BF2 without many problems on 
 medium level for video. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steve_dude10
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2005 4:54 pm PT
Review:  If you wanted a huge change from BF2, then, well, you don't get it here. What you do get is new 
 maps, new things to play with, new weapons, new armies, and new vehicles.
  
  This expansion pack will appeal to the players who really liked working with others to get the 
 job done in the original. Since they added things to kits like grappeling hooks and zip lines, 
 you really want your squad to be diverse so you and your teammates can get from point A to point 
 B in no time. This goes along with teamwork very well.
  
  Also, this expansion makes being a soldier more fun then being in a vehicle since you can get around 
 perfectly fine with the grappeling hooks and zip lines. This speeds up gameplay and makes dieing 
 seem less worse since it wont take you long to get to places. Like for instance, your walking along, 
 you see a bridge above you, you could walk all the way around to the bottom of the hill then go 
 up and across, OR, you could get you or one of your squad members to throw up a grappeling hook, 
 then climb up and be off on your way killin.
  
  One thing thats the downside of the expansion pack is that the only kit that wasn't given anything 
 was the engineer, which makes him feel almost worthless since he can't contribute too much to the 
 team.
  
  Bottom Line. if you liked BF2, get this right away! It may sound like they didn't add much to the 
 game but what they did add to it helps the game become much more enjoyable.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reaper_of_Soulz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:40 pm PT
Review:  This expansion rules. I was lucky enough not to be troubled by the glitches some people have installing 
 it. It's so much fun launching a tear gas canister into a room then diving in as a support guy 
 and gunning three people down. Zip lines and grappling hooks are awesome. I don't like the flash 
 bangs though. I think they blind you for to long and even if you aren't looking at it you still 
 get the full blast. Other then that it's great. The night levels are sweet especially Devils Perch. 
 The Iron Gator is sweet. I love sitting in the boatlaunch as support and gun down people by the 
 dozen as they cruis in on jet ski's and in boats. You can get a lot of resupply point in there 
 because other people sit in there to so you thow ammo all around constantly and after a boat comes 
 in everyone reloads and you get four or five resupply points. Just repeat this process and you 
 can get like 40 resupply points in one level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemseis
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2005 8:36 am PT
Review:  pega no saco e joga essa porra!!! good maps weapons and graphics!
  battlefield 2  um grande game multiplayer bons graficos jogabilidade e sons muito bom!
  pega 
 no saco e chupala filho da puta
  
  
  
  bichas de merdan devem morrer
  viva o massacration os filhos do deus metal
  quem ler tudo isso  um viado pega no saco e joga 
 essa porra!!! good maps weapons and graphics!
  battlefield 2  um grande game multiplayer bons graficos jogabilidade e sons muito bom!
  pega 
 no saco e chupala filho da puta
  
  
  
  bichas de merdan devem morrer
  viva o massacration os filhos do deus metal
  quem ler tudo isso  um viado pega no saco e joga 
 essa porra!!! good maps weapons and graphics!
  battlefield 2  um grande game multiplayer bons graficos jogabilidade e sons muito bom!
  pega 
 no saco e chupala filho da puta
  
  
  
  bichas de merdan devem morrer
  viva o massacration os filhos do deus metal
  quem ler tudo isso  um viado pega no saco e joga 
 essa porra!!! good maps weapons and graphics!
  battlefield 2  um grande game multiplayer bons graficos jogabilidade e sons muito bom!
  pega 
 no saco e chupala filho da puta
  
  
  
  bichas de merdan devem morrer
  viva o massacration os filhos do deus metal
  quem ler tudo isso  um viado pega no saco e joga 
 essa porra!!! good maps weapons and graphics!
  battlefield 2  um grande game multiplayer bons graficos jogabilidade e sons muito bom!
  pega 
 no saco e chupala filho da puta
  
  
  
  bichas de merdan devem morrer
  viva o massacration os filhos do deus metal
  quem ler tudo isso  um viado pega no saco e joga 
 essa porra!!! good maps weapons and graphics!
  battlefield 2  um grande game multiplayer bons graficos jogabilidade e sons muito bom!
  pega 
 no saco e chupala filho da puta
  
  
  
  bichas de merdan devem morrer
  viva o massacration os filhos do deus metal
  quem ler tudo isso  um viado pega no saco e joga 
 essa porra!!! good maps weapons and graphics!
  battlefield 2  um grande game multiplayer bons graficos jogabilidade e sons muito bom!
  pega 
 no saco e chupala filho da puta
  
  
  
  bichas de merdan devem morrer
  viva o massacration os filhos do deus metal
  quem ler tudo isso  um viado pega no saco e joga 
 essa porra!!! good maps weapons and graphics!
  battlefield 2  um grande game multiplayer bons graficos jogabilidade e sons muito bom!
  pega 
 no saco e chupala filho da puta
  
  
  
  bichas de merdan devem morrer
  viva o massacration os filhos do deus metal
  quem ler tudo isso  um viado pega no saco e joga 
 essa porra!!! good maps weapons and graphics!
  battlefield 2  um grande game multiplayer bons graficos jogabilidade e sons muito bom!
  pega 
 no saco e chupala filho da puta
  
  
  
  bichas de merdan devem morrer
  viva o massacration os filhos do deus metal
  quem ler tudo isso  um viado pega no saco e joga 
 essa porra!!! good maps weapons and graphics!
  battlefield 2  um grande game multiplayer bons graficos jogabilidade e sons muito bom!
  pega 
 no saco e chupala filho da puta
  
  
  
  bichas de merdan devem morrer
  viva o massacration os filhos do deus metal
  quem ler tudo isso  um viado pega no saco e joga 
 essa porra!!! good maps weapons and graphics!
  battlefield 2  um grande game multiplayer bons graficos jogabilidade e sons muito bom!
  pega 
 no saco e chupala filho da puta
  
  
  
  bichas de merdan devem morrer
  viva o massacration os filhos do deus metal
  quem ler tudo isso  um viado pega no saco e joga 
 essa porra!!! good maps weapons and graphics!
  battlefield 2  um grande game multiplayer bons graficos jogabilidade e sons muito bom!
  pega 
 no saco e chupala filho da puta
  
  
  
  bichas de merdan devem morrer
  viva o massacration os filhos do deus metal
  quem ler tudo isso  um viado 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kreynolds
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 30, 2005 10:48 pm PT
Review:  I played through a few hours of Battlefield 2: Special Forces, and overall I think the game is 
 enjoyable and well worth the money. The new classes and abilities are interesting and fun to play, 
 and having a tighter focus on the infantryman is a big boon.
  
  There are still a few niggling issues with the game, one being that the game takes longer to load 
 than Battlefield 2 (some feel even BF2 takes longer than is acceptable, and sometimes I agree) , 
 and another is that the game just doesn't have as smooth of gameplay as the original. My experience 
 wasn't unplayable as others suggest, but its definately noticeable that the game is a little more 
 sluggish than Battlefield 2.
  
  The aircraft superiority is still an issue, and although EA has nerfed the aircraft options a bit, 
 they still haven't hit the mark to balance things out. They need to put portable Stinger missiles 
 or other man portable SAMs in the game to help this issue. Just make another class like the anti-tank, 
 except have the class armed with a stinger. This is just as realistic as the base game today. This 
 prevents the helo pilots from just destroying the fixed sites, and killing with impunity. Reducing 
 the number of SAM hits would also be a big bonus.
  
  If you like the original Battlefield 2, and want to see new action and classes this addon is a 
 must. The gameplay is pretty much identical to the original, but the new class features really 
 change how you plan tactics and play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadly_cracka
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 30, 2005 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I am going to give this game the benefit of the doubt and review it trusting that EA will fix it's 
 bugs and issues in future patches. This game has everything that was great about vanilla, with 
 some additions that add more fun to the game. The maps are well made and make sure that there are 
 never moments where you think, "I hate this map, I'm going to leave and join a server that just 
 plays Karkand" or something. 
  
  There may not be enough content to justify an expansion, that is my main concern. The new guns 
 are great, but you don't see enough of them, in my opinion. The new upgrades are good, but you 
 can only use them in classic BF2 (!!???!!!) .
  
  Anyways, the main thing is the fun factor, and this xpac definitely delivers. If you liked BF2, 
 or maybe if you didn't, because you felt maps were too big and open... than this game is for you. 
 There are many moments that you just have to think.... "WOW" When you pull something really impressive 
 off when the odds are against you, that is what you spend the $30 on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StMichaelTFC
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:43 am PT
Review:  This game rocks, the weapons, characters, vehicles and new maps are completely awesome. The only 
 downside to the game is the fact that you can't carry your new weapons over to the regular BF2 
 servers. For the first couple hours of playing the game - I was a bit worried - but 2 hours and 
 1 minute later - I realized that it was well worth the price I paid. I have a pretty tough time 
 on the night maps, simply because I'm not great with the NVG's (I always let the batteries run 
 down) , that being said - It seems I always score high on the night maps, so I guess others have 
 similar difficulties :-) Heck just talking about it makes me want to play right now - so I think 
 I will! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hardcoreforever
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 9, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Alot of naysayers in the BF2 community lately have been deducing the worth of BF2 SF to just a 
 worthless purchase. I totally disagree. Most of the new maps are great. The new weapons are a breath 
 of fresh air, my personal favorite being the G36E (medic unlock) . The ziplines and grapple hooks 
 shorten the duration of travel on the larger of the new maps, and tear-gas and flashbang grenades 
 add new elements to the game play. 
  I personally have little or no performance problems with BF2 SF, though I expected to.
  
  Bottom 
 line.
  
  Why you should buy BF2 SF:
  
  If you are bored of the original maps and long for somthing new.
  If you want to use new weapons.
 
  If you enjoy infantry battles.
  If you are sick of being killed by airplanes.
  
  Overall I am having a blast with the new content, and do not regret purchasing this expansion for 
 BF2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raventhorn
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 29, 2005 11:03 pm PT
Review:  I was excited for this addon. I was hoping they would fix the plethora of problems with the original 
 game. First off, the original game had some serious problems with kit balance. Assault was always 
 a way to win the game. You had extra armor and the best weapon for spraying bullets. In the many 
 close quarter combat scenarios, that is all you need. Anti-armor, takes WAY too many rounds to 
 kill a tank. Having been an Anti-Tank Dragon rocket trained soldier, I can take out any APC with 
 it and atleast two can take out a tank if not one. Too many PLINK and you watch the tank move on. 
 Would have been great if they had added damaged vehicle behavior differences. But I digress a bit. 
 They simply did not fix the kits. Snipers dont need skim lines, they need grappelling hooks! What 
 good is it for a sniper. You already dumbed down their weapons, now you make no bonus for finding 
 a high place? Just getting down from it? Dumb.
  
  Anyways, kits still stink and the load times and lag and crashes have doubled. Battlefield is an 
 amazing game when you play in the following scenario:
  
  1) Low Ping/Lag Server (they dont always go hand in hand)
  2) Reasonable Teamwork
  3) You Dont 
 Crash
  4) You can actually stay awake long enough for the map to load and PRAY they did not switch maps 
 midstream in a load. God help you.
  
  The game has horrible performance for a game running on very decent hardware. It plays well once 
 you get a decent game and that is what makes people rate it higher. Be warned if you are new to 
 the game, the addon does nothign more than ADD to teh bugs and crashes and lag. Today I had scenarios 
 where I would click on a server. Go to the desktop, come back into the game, and then hang. Go 
 back and try again, this time I get into the game hit the Join Button and bam the game craps and 
 dies. Not a very good reliability factor. Also, unless you want to have even WORSE lag, either 
 open your NAT firewall with the "hello sailor" model of security or pay the price.
  
  All in all this addon, for the price could have added and fixed at the same time. They could have 
 made it harder for people to crash down to prone yet still get an amazing accuracy in rounds fired 
 on route. Lame. They could have improved the performance of the game. Really Lame. And they could 
 have made it more balanced instead of adding to the imbalance with the new versions of the kits. 
 Would have been refreshing if they had made it so you could have a customized kit. Reality is, 
 in spec forces or ranger or even Delta, there are no fixed kit layouts. I was an Airborne Ranger, 
 in a previous life, and I don't think I had ever worn the same gear out twice. It all depends on 
 the mission. Which would have made this a great time to add a customized kit. Again, Lame...
  
  For those not already hooked into the game when you can get into it... stay away and save your 
 hair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ty007mybutty
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 29, 2005 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I like this BF2 expansion myself. I have experienced no bugs that they speak about and I have the 
 minimum of ram too. The new toys rock the old stale selections of BF2, and the focus is waaaay 
 more on what you can do yourself and not how well you can drive ;) . Overall great expansion. I 
 have had the bug of it sucking up resources though. I sometimes find my 3.6ghz Pentium 4 being 
 used one-hundred percent. It could be because of ram, but i think in the upcoming patches this 
 will be remedied, enjoy this game! I would reccomend that the users with lower-end compuetr specs 
 play later on when they release some major fixes, but other than whining there is nothing to speed 
 up their releases (although nobody likes whiners, do they?) . If you liked the original BattleField2 
 and you're looking for a little extra kick, this is like tabasco on a steak ;) , so if your computer 
 can handle it, buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgrado
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I bought the expansion pack hoping for a great new version of battlefield 2, but found only a few 
 new levels and extremely unbalanced maps. The new weapons are mainly found on the SAS and SEAL 
 teams so the others have to use the old BF2 weapons. The new vehicles aren't that great but the 
 grappling hook, zip line, flash bangs and tear gas are pretty good. On some maps it is almost impossible 
 for one side to win unless everyone is very experienced and working together, which almost never 
 happens. The graphics didn't fair well on my machine at all. I had to turn the overall level down 
 to low in order to keep from an extremely low frame rate. I didn't experience any problems with 
 the installation however so i was able to get it up and running the day i bought it, but only because 
 i had spent 2 hours a few days earlier downloading the patch for BF2 and SF. I recommend you buy 
 it, but make sure your machine can run it and that you are ready to spend some time on normal BF2 
 as well, SF isn't as addicting as the original, but is still a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metsfan421
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Being that the first Battlefield 2 installment has taken up most of my time, I was hoping this 
 expansion would do the same, and it did! The use of grappling hooks and the zip lines really add 
 depth to the game. Although i still wish the sniper rifles (the upgraded one at least) actually 
 killed people with one shot, anywhere. But it fails to do so. Anyway buy this expansion if you 
 have the original, it's a no-brainer. The addition of the new maps are great, and the design of 
 them are pretty interesting. If more people acted in "teams" instead of running around solo, this 
 would be an even better experience. Unfortunately many friends of mine don't have a computer powerful 
 enough to play this game, which makes it harder to pick up and play as a team instead of playing 
 the less robust version on the Xbox.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mister_Sandmann
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Ive played BF2 since day one and have enjoyed every moment of it. Its run great and had very 
 few problems. So Ive waited with anticipation for the release of BF2: SF. I downloaded it from 
 EAs new digital download with no problems. I installed it only to find I needed to uninstall a 
 patch for BF2 I had just put in the day before. Did so and then had to install a new patch for 
 BF2: SF. Alrighty, installations complete, lets play!
  
  The load time is much longer than BF2 is. O. k. I can handle thatlets play! All I can say is, 
 imagine bringing home the car of your dreams, only to find the car is 2 inches longer than your 
 garage. Thats what SF feels like. All the new elements, maps, weapons etc. are great, but when 
 the battle heats up and there is a lot of action, youre going to get frustrated by the slow frame 
 rates. That means in an intense battle your going to end of dead more than youd like. There are 
 other minor issues, but for me this is the worst.
  
  Im sure as time progresses new patches will come down the pipeline, its just disappointing that 
 EA seems to have wanted to rush this expansion pack out in time for the holiday season rather than 
 deal with some of the obvious issues.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 29, 2005 4:04 pm PT
Review:  First i love BF2 i gave it a 9.9 STILL SF i gave a 4 because it unbelievable mistakes in game play 
 design... 
  you dont have tier2 unlocks, BUT SAS and SEAL teams get new weapons, those weapons are a major 
 advantage, HOEVER the opposition gets UNGUIDED AT rockets what makes the huge unbalance even worse, 
 this effect gets amplified because most players like to play with the new toys (weapons) so if they 
 cant join SAS or SEAL then they only idle till next round or simply go to an other server, so 80% 
 of the time SAS or SEAL wil win,
  then if you log in to any SF server you notice there are no more squads, that because there is 
 no advantage on those maps for much team play - this by it self if only a negative thing if you 
 love BF2 for team play, if you play it as doom-clone then of course no problem
  
  grafix is a bit better and so is the placement of strategic objects but for some unknown reason 
 the game is slower, nearly every one had to lower the quality setting - in fact the install do 
 it for you
  
  so in short you only get new maps and 2 new gadgets and you cant use the new unlocks (or rarely, 
 as its disabled)
  the unlocks are part of the patch not the expansion
  if you want to get the unlocks on your account all you have to do is log in to your buddies (or 
 Cybercafe
  ) SF and play 1 round with your account and you have your tear2 unlocks for ever with out actually 
 having to install SF 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elbillo13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 3:28 pm PT
Review:  BF2 Special Forces adds on tremendously to what was one of the best games of '05. I have truely 
 enjoyed playing with my friends and other people online. This is THE multiplayer game of 2005. 
 I faced only one time when it closed randomly. Other than that, no compalints. The toys (plenty 
 of fun vehicles, great guns, spec ops tools, GRAPPLING HOOKS AND ZIPLINES) , graphics (awesome lighting 
 and effects) , and just great feel of being part of a special forces team is unparraleled (teamwork 
 and covert goodness!) . This is a magnificent accomplishment, and one of EA's best. Battlefield 
 2 Special Forces is one game NOT to be missed.
  
  Note on Gamespot's Review:
  "Drrrr! We can't open game and review every game like it sucks," Gamespot, whose review was harsh 
 if not highly incorrect. GS does always give a tough review... but SpecForces deserved higher than 
 an 8.1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanthelion
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 29, 2005 3:06 pm PT
Review:  BF Special Forces is a great addition to Battlefield 2. From what I have experienced with the new 
 maps, they seem like a lot of fun. They provide some intense squad based action. My favorite new 
 map is a huge aircraft carrier that poses a serious challenge for the MEC team as they must board 
 the carrier in 1 of 2 choke points. The new weapons are fun and the new elements such as the grappling 
 hook, the zipline, and the tear gas are especially entertaining.
  
  My beef with the game is the stability. I just don't understand how DICE can launch a game with 
 so many problems. IF and I do mean IF you can get into a game and get rolling it is a blast. But 
 therein lies the problem, getting into and maintaining a game. If you check out some of the BF2 
 specific forums you will find hundreds of posts with all sorts of crazy issues. Such as...
  
  Crashing to the Deskop
  Crashing completely
  Getting disconnected from the server
  Getting 
 disconnected from the server and crashing to the desktop
  friendlies appearing as enemies
  Insanely long load times (upwards of 5 minutes at times)
  the list goes on.
  
  most of these 
 people (myself included) are running machines that far surprass the minimum requirements for the 
 game. If you are willing to put up with the BS for a while I suggest getting the game. Otherwise, 
 I would suggest waiting for DICE to produce a few more patches to fix things up.
  
  Overall: 5.5 (with bugs) 9.0 (running smoothly)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AAAces
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2005 2:42 pm PT
Review:  All i can say is wow, this game is purely amazing and will keep me occupied for quiet some time. 
 The new additions from BF2 is abundant. What game can you fly down a zip-line, hop on your ATV 
 and lead your SWAT team to take down the bad guys? Didn't think so. BF2 will still be in the hearts 
 of many, but this makes a great addition to an already great game really. Gameplay is awsome, graphics 
 are purely amazing, something you can usually expect from EA, and the sound is perfect. I have 
 a piece of a sound system and it feels like i am in the battlefield. This game will be here for 
 some time to come, and i hope it becomes one of the greats and doesn't get left in the dust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 29, 2005 12:03 pm PT
Review:  As a BF2 afficonado (I have barely played anything else since it came out) I waited for SF with 
 eager anticipation. Unfortunately the title has been a total letdown and at 20 hardly worth the 
 money.
  
  Whilst the concept is great DICE have done little to alter or improve the game. The major spoiler 
 is the poor maps. There really is nothing to rival the great Karkand or Wake Island. The day maps 
 are mostly dull, grey spectacles giving a kind of Half Life 2 feel to the game - but it doesnt 
 work. As we all know BF has no gamma setting and seeing the enemy is really difficult. The night 
 maps are correspondingly even harder to play and spoiled by the fact that there are few lighted 
 areas, so this means the night vision has to be used constantly. It gets annoying after a while 
 playing with the green hue. To make matters worse the night vision is appallingly bad. You have 
 to play Far cry or Splinter cell to see how night vision shopuld really be done.
  
  There is the addition of a few new vehicles which is welcome, some new weapons and new tools such 
 as zip lines & flashbangs etc. The new units however have terrible voices - the Russians will grate 
 on you after a while and the British have worse accents than Dick van Dyke in Mary Poppins.
  
  To sum up, SF lacks atmosphere. I can't really put my finger on why but If you want fun and 
 exhilaration look no further than BF2 vanilla. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OpusPenguin56
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 29, 2005 11:41 am PT
Review:  I love the new maps and the addition of night vision. However, I feel the new vehicles were over-hyped 
 and under-utilized. I expected to see more of the Apache which I love to fly but it isn't available 
 much even on large maps. Hopefully there will be more MOD maps that will allow more helicopter 
 action! Flash grenades are great to use, but the tear gas seems to easy to protect yourself from. 
 All in all I felt the game was a bit of a disappointment, but I love the graphics and game play. 
 It is worth getting, but not as great as the hype surrounding it. I was also disappointed you could 
 not mix the maps in with standard BF2 maps on stand-alone servers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 29, 2005 8:20 am PT
Review:  EA's highly anticipated expansion pack for an already amazing game has has been worth the wait. 
 As in all Battlefield games, Special Forces made their predecessors better, but with a few controversial 
 issues. 
  
  Firstly, the shortage of maps. There are very few maps offered in the expansion. Secondly, the 
 Russian Spetsnaz, Middle-Eastern Coalition, Rebel groups, and Insurgents all have identical weapons. 
 There is great diversity between the American armies, and Bitish SAS. 
  
  The game is also extremely buggy, even on a high-end PC. It may have been a more prudent decision 
 to hold on to the game longer, to fix these wounds up.
  
  However, dispite these obvious holes, Special Forces does come with some goodies. The zipline and 
 grapple hook help for easy travelling from building to building. These and Tear gas, and masks 
 help put ths game into a more stealthy appeal. The battles are more concentrated on foot rather 
 than on vehicle. And adding Russians to the whole ordeal is just cool.
  
  With unsirpassed multiplayer capabilities, and pure shoot-em'-up fun, this game is not to be missed.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: big80a2
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 29, 2005 5:47 am PT
Review:  got the game and played it, But really felt there are some issues..
  IMHO the game is rushed to the shops for xmas. While I love the maps. I think Dice run out of time 
 to make decent updates for al non western army's.
  The russians could have gotten so much different weapons. like the OC-14 or A-91.
  Also the MEC 
 forces don't have a grenade launcer.... thats just so wierd, because beside all the weapons skills 
 people need anyway to shoot good with what ever rifle. The lack of the grenade launcer on the MEC 
 side is a tactical disadvantige.
  Evendo it's a game the millitary aspects of the game are rubish. If Dice would have spent some 
 more time on the game its contents might be more apriciated. 
  The thing that really changed to the good is the use of the unlocks in BF2 this gives a whole new 
 perspective to the game.
  
  I hope the next patch will give us some candy to shut up. And that the next expansion will pack 
 will be more balanced.
  
  It's a nice expansion but for what you get it should be almost free!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lavahawk
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 28, 2005 7:11 pm PT
Review:  It's a very good expansion to a pretty good game. I find however that both the original BF 2 and 
 BF 2 special forces take forever to load, (bring a book) and crash far too often. My favorite is 
 when it just freezes and 20 seconds later the screen goes completly blue coupled with an intense 
 buzzing. BUT, when the game isn't crashing, loading, or losing its network connection, its a good 
 game with good graphics. Only other complaint is that even with the new guns that you can unlock, 
 you can only use the tier 2 unlocks on the old BF 2. I mean seriously, who plays the old one after 
 you get the expansion? C'mon there EA, good stuff, but frusterating things take away from the experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brundlefly76
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:19 am PT
Review:  I love BF2 and have been playing it religously since release. It has some bugs but none of them 
 stop the fun for me and it has bugs because it is very ambitous.
  
  I would have paid $30 for Special Forces just to have new maps (there are mod maps im sure but 
 too hard to find servers plaing them) . Special Forces adds new maps, armies, weapons, vehicles, 
 and tools, and they are all great.
  
  I think the most important part of this expansion, however, is that it adds scenarios which illuminate 
 parts of the game which were largely overshadowed by the original BF2 which is so vehicle-oriented.
 
  
  SF is definitely infantry oriented, which at first kind of turned me off because I had thought 
 of infantry as simply underpowered. But SF is designed around infantry, so infantry is now more 
 powerful. For example, there are tons of control points which are very difficult if not impossible 
 to take or defend with vehicles.
  
  The result is that solid squad tactics and leaders and kits like medic and sniper have the importance 
 that kits like anti-tank and Special Forces (ironically) had in the original BF2.
  
  I had rarely played either of those kits in BF2 because they were too underpowered. But recently 
 I took top score on a round as a medic, and on one map there are two control points on rooftops 
 which make for great sniper fodder.
  
  I guess the best thing you can say about an expansion is that you want to keep playing it instead 
 of the original. In this case I certainly do, and look forward to taking a break from BF2 so it 
 wont get overplayed.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: igl
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 9:28 pm PT
Review:  One day , i read about someone having problems with BF2. He couldnt make it run on his strange 
 or weird system, so he called the EA hotline where he found no help too. At least they let him 
 send in his dxdiag error log and they offerend him replacement with any other EA product.
  
  I came to the conclusion that i hate sport games, so i didnt tried to fake such a problem to 
 get such oppertunity since bf2 was another expensive dust-catcher already. Teh second mistake was 
 getting this expension pack. 
  
  Fun for 10 minutes when you climb up or zip down somewhere, but the annoyance quickly comes back 
 as you run around with 31 chickens betweens artillery fire and camping spots. Just for the moment 
 the other 32 player try out their new granade launcher. Wasn't it a sign of inbalance when only 
 one weapon gets to use in a relative wide variety? Not in BF2, this game is, straight to the point 
 designed for public FFA servers.
  
  First rule: tank   *
  Second rule: teamwork  imber weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pbfreak142
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2005 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Well the weapons, why the original weapons? why not new ones? the unlocks are okay . Only the SAS 
 players get the nice guns like the f2000 and g36e.
  EA /DICE could've done better with the weapons.
  
  Vechicles: Some are good some are bad. I 
 really enjoyed using the jet skis and the ATV. The Spatz tank looks strange and doesnt look like 
 a modern Russian Tank. The cars are ok, there weak but what can you say there just cars.
  
  Helis: Awesome job i thought. they look nice. 
  
  Gear: GREAT!. love the Zipline especially. 
 Grapple is fun to use to climb. Flash is great when you have a squad that can rush in after you 
 flash the enemy. 
  
  Skins: The insurgents look very weird to me. Same thing with the Navy Seals, other then that everything 
 else looks great.
  
  Game Play: Plain out awesome. Took me some time to get used to all the new gear, especially night 
 vision. You have to know when to use it like when its really bright dont use it lol : \. But in 
 my opinion i still think BF2 servers running Sharqi 32 or Karkland 32 can still beat BF2SF game 
 play. but its up to you. 
  
  One of the best things is you can use you unlocks from SF in BF2. That makes it really fun. 
 
  
  Sound: God the Russian and the insurgents sound funny in a good way. Everything else is good
 
  
  Overall the game isnt what i expected but it is still fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superfadedsteve
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Great game overall! If you own or have played battlefield 2, its a must buy. I loved the city maps 
 in BF2 so I am right at home with the expansion. Gameplay is great, basically identical to BF2. 
 They added some ziplines and grappling hook to let u move around faster. For me personally I love 
 the new maps, well balanced and overall fun and enjoyable. In regards to the kits, only a few of 
 the kits have the new zip and hook so if you are an assualt guy that wants to zipline around you 
 need to follow around a spec ops guy. The sound is the exact same other than the british voice 
 over. The graphics I believe have been improved, I see better shadows and textures overall. The 
 player models are awesome! The game sounds looks and feels just like BF2. 
  
  Now the bad! The game clearly was rushed for the holiday season. The original game only came out 
 in July and we already have an expansion? WIth that said, Brits are using USA vehicles??? i dont 
 think so EA!!!! The stuttering ohhh the stuttering!! the servers ea are using havent been fixed 
 yet so you will get more lag than before. Very typical of games that werent finished the first 
 time. So the community will have to wait a month for ea to fix that. The US Seals dont fight the 
 insurgents??? WHAT?? thats WHO WE ARE FIGHTING!!!!! Only the SAS fight the insurgents!! This boggles 
 the mind! If you dont care about that than I guess that isnt bad, but for us Yanks we want some 
 insurgent payback!!! The maps in night vision particulary slow up and I believe that is due to 
 the server problems ea is dealing with. Again hopefully that is fixed!
  
  Other than those grips, the game is great! I wished EA could have finished they game FIRST before 
 they shipped it, but that is capitalism at its best. Get the product out there to make money!! 
 If you own BF2 this is a no brainer!! If you like arcade style spec ops fighting this is a no brainer!! 
 
  
  Closing: Great game and worth the buy, but if your system sucks wait till ea fixes the game cause 
 you will definetley have issues! Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spectre-123
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 3:21 pm PT
Review:  A great expansion, featuring ziplines and grappling hooks that you can use anywhere on the map. 
 Speaking about maps, you can't access the old BF2 maps without starting BF2 from the mod screen. 
 And in the SF application there are only 8 maps. 
  
  Weapons are great, but I can't help but have a feeling about DICE getting lazy and slacking off 
 from doing their research. Only the SAS and SEALS get new weapons: thats 2 out of the 6 new teams 
 they promised us. 
  
  Overall a great expansion, except that DICE needs to add more maps and NEW weapons for the 3 MEC 
 teams and the Russian Spetznaz team. Stop slacking off and do something productive, DICE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_DoDo56
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  An expansion likely to be an opening to many doors for those people who like to sneak up on people 
 and slice their throats. One of the only problems is bugs. The bugs are the only thing stopping 
 this wonderful expansion from becoming a big hit. If the servers would lose a bit of lag then more 
 fast paced games could be played. Another thing that ticks me off is that they are focusing a lot 
 more on foot soldiers and not vehicles. I'd like to drive into a garage with a .50 caliber and 
 mow some of those people down in a regular truck or dive out of a plane and into a boat for a war 
 type feeling. It disappoints me to see that we won't be relieing on night vision but instead bright 
 lights. It's really a good game but come on EA, make it a bit harder. Overall I'll be playing BF2 
 rather than this expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hairymop
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2005 1:42 pm PT
Review:  The initial cause of my frustrations with this game have nothing to do with the game but the vendor, 
 EA Games.
  
  I purchased via the EA games web site as I didn't want to wait until I got into a store. 
  
 
  Don't do this!
  
  Rather go to the store and buy it. EA makes you download a download manager from them inorder to 
 get the item. When a file is over a Gig in size let people use a real download manager such as 
 GetRight or the like. This is extremely annoying and I won't be buying through them again.
  
  Once I had the game installed I jumped right in, excited to try the new levels and weapons, 
 but that was nto to be. Every server I tried to connect to told me that I had to a modified version 
 of Battlefield 2 and that I needed to revert to my original version. Considering I was running 
 the orginal version I was some what confused by this to say the least. Finally thanks to an online 
 forum NOT run by EA I found the answer. The patch I installed a couple of days before had to be 
 reinstalled. Ugh, EA couldn't have rolled this in with the release version of BF2 Special Forces?
 
  
  Now finally I could get into a server. 
  
  My final gripe is that the game is a completely stand alone application instead of being rolled 
 into BF2. Thsi means that every time you want to play a BF2 SF map it closes out of Battlefield2 
 and launches Battlefield 2: Special forces. By the time the map opens the servers are full. Really 
 annoying considering it takes 2 minutes to open it up.
  
  Once into the game it is the same action packed Battlefield I have enjoyed over the past few years. 
 Nice features like night vision, flash bang grenades, new weapons are great additions. A win for 
 the infantryman is the complete lack of jets! No more F15 blowing you into the sky every time you 
 even think of getting in a vehicle. 
  
  The close quarters fighting is good fun and keeps you on edge the whole time. This game wins some 
 points back based on the game play and new stuff but loses a lot of ground because poor implementation 
 and clunky integration with BF2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sut-typhon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 7:49 am PT
Review:  If you can't get enough of the Battlefield 2 and want different maps, factions, new weapons this 
 is your best bet. Although it could've included new modes of play, and other tihngs to make more 
 addictive-it's still a great expansion pack. I recommend this expansion pack to the casual gamer 
 as well, you wont be disappointed. It clearly "respawned" my interest in Battlefield 2 among all 
 the other first person shooters out at this time. 
  
  If your debating between other shooters out there at this time, just get it you will like it if 
 you can spend time learning how to get around in a Blackhawk helicopter, APC and other types of 
 transportation. It's very important you learn how to get around to the action or else your interests 
 may wane a little bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrei100
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 7:46 am PT
Review:  While i was playing battlefield 2 special forces i felt the intentional gameplay. Indeed, the night 
 googles and all night maps really inpressed me, but some things like when i am in a zone with light 
 while wearing night googles, the light reflected and you could not see anything. Also in night 
 maps i very dark zones with no googles you just see playing black zone, i think it would be better 
 if they added SOME GRASS OR SOMETHING because when i put on my night googles i just saw plain green 
 zone and it had no environment details. 
  Some day maps were great, like the one with russian and british sas. All details really amazed 
 me. I also think it would be better to add more different weapons to russian, rebels, and insurgents 
 because they all have the same weapons. I dont understand what was the point of them if you can 
 just play with MEC or CHINA's people soldiers. But I really liked voices and sounds, especially 
 russian voice and i really understood them because i speak russian.
  I also wanted to see some desert maps, because there too many city maps. It would be better if 
 EA made more environment maps like jungles or deserts like in Battlefield 1942.
  Overall I liked the expansion pack very much, but it could be better. I think if EA releases a 
 patch (not like 1.12) to add more stuff to expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinamika
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 2:49 am PT
Review:  There's some really great new content in Special Forces that builds on the strengths of Battlefield 
 2. Special Forces adds a total of eight new maps, including a spaceport complete with a launching 
 pad and rocket, gutted-out cities, an airfield, and an island. All these maps have an infantry-heavy 
 focus, even on their larger, 64-player variants, and that's good news to Battlefield 2 fans, since 
 the most popular levels in the core game are the urban ones, such as Strike at Karkand. The other 
 good news is that the expansion features a number of urban levels similar to Karand and Sharqi 
 Peninsula. In fact, they may be a bit too familiar, as there are some buildings and objects recycled 
 from the core game. Still, there's enough new content in the levels to differentiate them from 
 their predecessors and to provide more urban playgrounds to romp around in. For example, there's 
 a palace level in which one side has to battle through a city to the palace's gates and then into 
 the palace itself, which provides a large mix of indoor and outdoor combat. Yet perhaps the best 
 new map is a reverse amphibious assault, in which the Middle Eastern Coalition forces must board 
 and take over a US aircraft carrier defended by Navy SEALs; the action takes place on the carrier's 
 deck, in its vast hangar bays, and in its corridors and rooms below. 
  
  Meanwhile, there are six new factions in the expansion, which is a big number considering that 
 Battlefield 2 itself only shipped with three. These new factions are needed to justify the scenarios 
 (for example, Russian special forces versus an insurgent group, or British SAS versus a different 
 type of rebel group) , though one of the disadvantages of having six factions and only eight maps 
 is that you see factions only once or twice throughout the game. You still can't mix and match 
 factions and maps to create different face-offs (DICE says this is for balance purposes) , so it 
 seems like you get to see your favorite new faction on only a couple of occasions. Then again, 
 the factions are all fairly interchangeable to begin with, since they feature similar weapons and 
 vehicles. 
  
  Even though we're dealing with Special Forces in this expansion, each faction is broken down into 
 the same classes as the conventional factions in Battlefield 2. So each faction has a special forces 
 class armed with a carbine and plastic explosives, a support class that carries a light machine 
 gun and can drop ammo packs, an antitank class that carries a submachine gun and a tank-killing 
 weapon (there's even a new RPG!) , and so on. Speaking of the new RPG, there are a slew of new weapons 
 to round out the arsenals, though for the most part these simply feel like cousins of existing 
 Battlefield 2 weapons. For example, there's a new British assault rifle that has a grenade launcher 
 attached, and a new SEAL carbine with a scope, and they operate just like the weapons in Battlefield 
 2. The major additions to the game are new toys that you get to play with that you didn't have 
 access to before. These include the grappling hook, zip line, and flashbang and tear-gas grenades
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorandor
Rating: 5.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 1:19 am PT
Review:  So, there it is now, EA brought out the first expansion to Battlefield 2, one of the greatest war-games 
 this year. But at what price? 
  
  Already EA /DICE are seen as "greedy bast****" simply because they did not fix issues of the game 
 in time and had to throw patch after patch onto the community, a problem many had hoped EA would 
 have learned from with BF1.
  
  Now, with BF2-SF out you are expected to update your game, install the addon, and update again, 
 a massive 280MB patch to be exact awaits you before you can actually play the game online. A shame 
 really, especially since EA still does not realise that they are in need of mirrors to make the 
 patch properly available.
  
  Anyway, let's have a look at the expansion.
  The new levels are nice, however not many, the new factions play well and have their own style, 
 and the new vehicles are another step to master to join the leaderboards. Very nice indeed.
  
  There are many good fixes with the expansion, the fact that the bots seem a lot more intelligent 
 in SinglePlayer and that some weapons and vehicles have been reworked. Having said that I still 
 feel some of the new vehicles to be way too overpowered.
  
  The other problem I have is that you cannot play the old maps in Singleplayer, you can only choose 
 the expansion maps. Why is that? When I buy both original game and the expansion then I expect 
 an EXPANDED game, not two games.
  
  All in all, the expansion is only good for those who loved the original and play it fanatically, 
 everyone else should rather invest the money in a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harriskhan_18
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 26, 2005 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Well here we have it.. battlefield 2 special forces, the expansion to definatly one of the GREATEST 
 multiplayer games of all time Battlefield 2, but is it worthy enough to be an expansion of a classic 
 i think NOT.
  
  Special Forces is full of Bugs which i think EA will fix in about a month or so, but besides that 
 there are tons of problem to look forward to. First when i saw the Special Forces trailer it looked 
 freakin sweet with all the night vision goggles and grapling hooks and stuff, seemed like a perfect 
 squad based game with a lot of strategic elements involved, but Sadly its nothing like the Trailer.. 
 : (
  
  Its VERY hard to find a good squad to play with and everyone is just going crazy with absolutly 
 no idea what the hell is going on, anyways back to the problems. 
  
  1. EA did add a few new Vehicles which are kinda cool but the maneuvering or handling is PLAIN 
 Terrible, the vehicles turn alot with a slight touch of a button, no fiction at all.
  
  2. The Graphics arent impressive and i have no idea why this game is such a system hog. Battlefield 
 2 looks simply AMAZING compared to special Forces
  
  3. Loading times are a pain in the ass. You should always have a handheld entertainment system 
 to pass the time lol or go the toilet 
  
  4. Game controls are some what frustrating. 
  
  5. The game just Gets Boring later on and you become tired of the close combat really soon.
 
  
  6. Also the game is very Laggy.. there will be times when you would want to take the keybaord and 
 smash it into the moniter. 
  
  7. Maps where its Dark and night may sound kinda cool but its REALLY REALLY and i mean REALLY frustrating 
 and just plain suck..
  
  I love BF2 and will be playing that for a long time... Where as i have already given up on Special 
 forces its really not worth spending about 30 bucks. The new weapons arent that Impressive at all 
 except for the Grappling hooks they are kinda cool but thats about it.. 
  If you really want to try the game by all means go ahead you may like it but as for me i found 
 it to be quiet boring.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Admaral_Nimitz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 9:27 pm PT
Review:  This game has all the cool gadgets of James Bond but with the fun, action, and intensity of the 
 original BF2, if you have Call of Duty, or Americas Army you will deeply enjoy this game! Perhaps 
 on of the best things about the game is the new vehicles, thier cool, fast and fun to drive, great 
 for people who like long drives in the country and running down people. This game is most suited 
 to people who like to sneak up on people, with the new gadgets such as the zip-line and grappel 
 hook its eaiser than ever. This game mostly foccouses on city maps and large indoor maps so becareful 
 ware you go, look before you leap and get out their soilder!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknot-maggot
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game until you run into the glitchs. One glitch that really upset me was, when I 
 was shooting the zip-line off of a high building right after the crossbow was shot, i was kick 
 off the edge and most of the time i would die... Great graphics I did notice a slight improvment 
 from BF2. Gamplay wise it has gotten alot better being because EA has added new weapons like Tear 
 gas, flash bangs, two different types of the SCAR, 6 or 7 new maps (Cant remember) some of them being 
 night operations and some of them being in the day, and some nifty new vehicles. As far as sound 
 it was pretty good but there has been better then this from EA before. Value, this game has great 
 value and people will be playing this game for a very long time until we see another Battlefield. 
 Overall I think this game was rushed a little to much, they could have spent some time adding a 
 little more weapons or vehicles. but other wise great game EA has shown why they are the gods of 
 online shooters once again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mthomason99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Despite extensive mod support, Battlefield 2 has managed to cause itself long-term playability 
 problems through it's ranked server system, which encourages players only to play on servers with 
 unmodified content in order to gain global scoring and weapons unlocks. Therefore the Special Forces 
 expansion pack comes as a great relief to everyone fed up with the limited number of maps available 
 in the original game. New gameplay options include additional weapons unlocks, flashbang grenades, 
 tear gas, grappling hooks, and zip lines.
  
  Unfortunately the expansion does little to enhance the single-player playability of the game, with 
 a decent singleplayer mode including more than 16 players on a map and the use of aircraft still 
 nowhere in sight. Similarly, support for co-op mode (multiplayer with bots filling out the teams) 
 is still noticably absent.
  
  What is included, however, is certainly worth the expansion's price tag. DICE Canada have done 
 a fantastic job with the new maps, which are even more realistic than those from the original BF2. 
 The addition of burned out vehicles makes you feel that you're in a war zone, rather than a carefully 
 laid out military training area. Time has been wisely spent on the map details, rather than dotting 
 a few buildings around a heightmap built in a few minutes with randomly generated undergrowth dotted 
 around. 
  
  The new maps are thankfully free of planes, which were the bane of the infantry player in the original 
 BF2 maps. Although the heavy backup of artillery, armor, and helicopters are still present every 
 player can now feel they are making a valuable contribution to their team. While on the subject 
 of teams, teamplay is now encouraged even more as crossing the map is a lot easier if you have 
 access to both a grappling hook and zip line - and as these are exclusive items you'll need at 
 least two people to make full use of them. Squads are now encouraged even more to take a good mix 
 of classes instead of the preponderance of spec ops personnel that plaged many BF2 games.
  
  The new zip line and grappling hook provide new ways to move around, the former consisting 
 of a crossbow that shoots a line to any point vertically beneath your current position, allowing 
 you to slide down. The grappling hook meanwhile lets you climb walls to get to higher positions. 
 Curiously, the developers chose to give the sniper kit the zip line rather than the grappling hook, 
 so snipers may well want a partner carrying the grappling hook to help them attain better positions. 
 
  
  The new maps are mostly urban, with plenty of buildings to hide inside and around. There's also 
 an airport with a very Rainbow Six-like-feel to it and an interesting assault on the USS Essex 
 (which seems to get around quite a bit in the BF2 game world) by MEC special forces that takes 
 place on and beneath the deck. Some of the maps take place at night, which brings into play a new 
 piece of kit carried by all classes in Special Forces - the night vision goggles. These goggles 
 can be toggled on and off to give you a green-tinted light-enhanced view, but are limited in battery 
 life (recharging while not in use) to about 2-3 minutes of use. You'll not want them on permanently, 
 though, as in lighted areas (such as inside lit buildings or outside with street lights) they actually 
 make it more difficult to see. Driving around a night map usually requires constant toggling of 
 your night vision goggles as you pass through lit and unlit areas. These maps use a number of new 
 protaganists, including US Navy Seals, British SAS, Russian Spetznas, MEC Special Forces, Rebels 
 and Insurgents.
  
  New vehicles available on the maps include the desert raider (with driver sitting in the middle 
 with a gunner to each side plus one on top) , civilian cars and pickup trucks, jet skis, and quad 
 bikes. Theres even a drivable forklift in some of the warehouses...
  
  Another nice addition is the use of map triggers - a number of maps have elevators and doors that 
 can be controlled with switches, the most impressive of which is the aircraft elevator platform 
 on the side of the USS Essex which is used in reality for moving aircraft from the interior hangar 
 to the flight deck (although not in-game as the planes on deck are for decoration only) . The addition 
 of compounds with locked gates is another use for the grappling hook/zipline combination to gain 
 access and open the gates for your comrades.
  
  On the technical side, the latest BF2 dedicated server contains the original and Special Forces 
 maps, meaning that most server providers will be making the SF option available on their servers 
 immediately and probably at no extra charge. Special Forces is constructed as a BF2 mod, which 
 means you're either running BF2 or BF2: SF when you start the game - however a lot of the new weapons 
 from BF2: SF (including the new unlockable weapons) are available to use in standard BF2. You wont 
 however be seeing the grappling hook and zipline on BF2 maps, unless added in a patch at a later 
 date. On vanilla maps such as Mashtuur City you'll now notice flashbangs around every corner and 
 clouds of tear gas filling the streets - these options are only available to those players who 
 have bought Special Forces, of course, making it a must-have even for those players who don't want 
 to play on the new maps. 
  
  Logging into Special Forces you'll also gain a number of free unlocks (if this doesnt happen immediately 
 for you don't worry, you usually have to play two or three times before they become available) 
 which can be used on either new or original unlocks. While this does smell a little of "paid unlocks", 
 it does add another reason to buy this expansion but also makes you question how much input the 
 marketing people at EA had into the game content.
  
  Finally, the 1.13 BF2 engine does appear to have had some graphics tweaks, with the game becoming 
 even more detailed on high-end graphics cards.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopskadoop
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 6:48 pm PT
Review:  If you're reading this to consider purchasing the new expansion pack, then I'll tell you right 
 now that the new content will not wow you. However, the new combat situations created by the new 
 maps and equipment will most certainly be a lasting source of entertainment.
  
  There are several (eight) new maps, and everyone can find a liking to atleast two of them. The 
 new maps would probably be the highlight of this expansion; there isn't that much new content other 
 than that, so don't purchase this pack anxiously anticipating the new weapons, vehicles, and factions. 
 What is nice about these new maps is that they are very distinct, unique, and diverse. One of my 
 favorites would be Warlord, a karkand-type map between the British SAS and the mid-east insurgents. 
 There is a palace at one end of the map that the British must caputre, which provides for some 
 incredibly fun close-quarters combat and intense situation as you and your teamates storm the palace 
 gates, using grappling hooks to scale the walls. Another fun, or atleast ineresting, map would 
 be Iron gator, a map that takes place enitrely on an aircraft carrier. I suppose the developers 
 made note of how fun it was to board and storm carriers in the original battlefield. All in all 
 the maps are decent, though I don't particularly care for the night time maps (I'm sure some would 
 love it) .
  
  As for the content, well... there are some fun new toys to play with, but nothing amazing really; 
 there could have been more. I would say the biggest turn-off for me was that 4 out of the 6 new 
 factions are almost completely indentical in the weapons and vehicles they use. The comparison 
 is as follows:
  
  Russian Spetsnaz: I was extremely dissapointed to find that their weaponry is identical to not 
 only the rebels, with whom most of their maps are staged against, but are also almost completeley 
 identical to the original MEC. The only new additions would be the hind helictoper, which is one 
 of my favorite new additions, and a BMP-3, which is also a nice addition. However, the rebels, 
 the mid-east insurgents, and the MEC-SF all have these vehicles and weapons with only slight variations, 
 none worth mentioning. I believe the Spetsnaz should have atleast gotten the AN-94 abakan to mix 
 the equipment up a bit. 
  
  Rebels: They are equipped with the exact same weaponry as the above faction. There is really no 
 reason to play as one group or the other. I personally don't understand how they have the latest 
 AK series guns. They should have atleast been equipped with older AK-47s as the standard arm.
 
  
  Mid-east insurgents: Once again, look at the above two factions, and that's exactly what they have. 
 
  
  MEC-SF: Ok, these guys are different in that they use standard AK-47s instead of the new series 
 AK-101s, which I really don't understand since they are supposed to be 'special forces,' as opposed 
 to rebels and the insurgents.
  
  British SAS: They are probably the most distinctly fresh group. Their small arms arsenal is completely 
 new, though their vehicles are still American. I wish the developers would have atleast had the 
 patience to model a Challenger 2 tank. Nonetheless, the new weapons are excellent additions and 
 are fun to play with. The British are staged against the mid-east insurgents and the Russian spetsnaz 
 (go figure) . I always want to play for the SAS because the other two factions with whom they fight 
 are completely identical rehashes.
  
  Navy Seals: Two new small-arms, an apache helicopter, and that's it.
  
  Having said all that, 
 there are some new vehicles that are available to all of the factions, such as an ATV (fun to ride) , 
 an interesting new buggy with three machine gun attachements, a jet ski, and a pickup truck with 
 a mounted .50 cal in the back.
  
  Out of all the new vehicles, my favorites would be the hind (available to the spetsnaz, insurgents, 
 MEC-SF, and rebels) and apache helicopters (obvious who that's available to) . They are both very 
 fun to pilot and are now much more deadly weapons against infantry; the rockets do more splash 
 damage. However, I really wish they would have given the hind transport spaces like it has in reality.
 
  
  So, like I said, buy this for the new combat situations, not the new weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -l-Vicious-l-
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 26, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Well, once again it feels like EA rushed DICE to release this game before it was anywhere near 
 saticfactory for the sole purpose of getting the peoples cash, but this is an expansion pack... 
 so there is definitely not alot to expect considering that fact. This expansion pack includes 6 
 new teams, 6 new maps, 10 new vehicles, and more than 7 new weapons (not all of them being guns, 
 so dont get your hopes up) . The teams include U. S. Navy SEALs, British Special Air Service, Russian 
 Spetsnaz, Middle Eastern Coalition Special Forces, Chechen Rebels, and Insurgents (which should 
 of been named Al Qaeda, but we all know why that didnt happen) . This is definitely something to 
 get if you already have BF2.
  
  The EP really focuses on the British SAS, the shining star from deep in the black hole of what 
 is the multi issue game that is BF2. When BF2 was released, alot of people enjoyed what it had 
 to offer, not mentioning that it had annoying bugs in it, a rushed attempt at making a cap objective 
 system for gameplay, and having the vehicles over shine the infantry aspect of the game. In my 
 personal opinion BF2 could of been way better, but we got what it is... mediocre. This time around 
 British just kick pure ass, being the highlight with a improved over all game and new weapons, 
 cool loooking skins and just over all awesomeness. The British are my over all favorite team, not 
 to mention that the F2000 is an excellent weapon that they use in the game. Me being a big fan 
 of Delta Force and British SAS, its uplifting to see the Brits finally get some recognition. Which 
 leads me to the U. S. Navy SEALs, i was disapointed that the SEALs were the choice of DICE to pick 
 for the U. S. team, and not Delta Force........ but o wells, better luck next time. Personally i 
 think SEALs are way to overrated and overused.
  
  The down side on this is that is seemed like the Brits and the U. S. are the only 2 teams to get 
 new weapons with the exception of the RPG which the insurgents and rebels get. Another downer is 
 that you can only use the SEALs in one map, which basicly sucks. There are only 6 maps (or 7) which 
 suck, they should of put atleast 5 more with usage of the U. S. side vs the Brits or Insurgents. 
 One thing i noticed was that in the pictures on this site they had a map with a Air Craft Carrier, 
 which isnt in the game unless you can download it somewhere.
  
  Thats preatty much all i can think of right now, if your fascinated with the other better half 
 of the military's elite SF units, this is something you wanna checkout. It is indeed Battlefield 
 2: Upgraded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrade12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 26, 2005 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of Battlefield since the start but don't let you think that gives me bias. I will 
 hit hard on any game for any fault no matter how much i like it. Battlefield 2 was an expected 
 leap in gameplay and graphics from BFV, and delivered a fun large-scale battle experience. EA has 
 been known for games with underproduced bug fixes and incomplete features in the name of big business. 
 SF is certainly no exception and containst some bugs that will stop your computer dead and will 
 even give the fastest machine a run for its money with huge amounts of effects and congested maps 
 that lead to BF2 eating framerate for breakfast. As soon as it's nice and patched it should be 
 a solid add-on with lots of new gadgets and maps for those of us that have live for urban combat. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Munstable
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I have mixed feelings regarding the quality of this expansion pack. First impressions? I wasn't 
 very impressed at all. To begin with, the opening intro is confusing and difficult to follow. The 
 original intro movie was much more effective in highlighting the various features of the game, 
 but this one just gives you a headache after watching.
  The interface remains the same -- boring. The new factions are also somewhat lame when compared 
 to the original teams and seem fictitious and unimportant. Even though they are called Special 
 Forces, the weapons they use are exactly the same as before, except maybe the SAS team, who possesses 
 some modern weaponry, but as a result, look more like starship troopers. Models and textures seems 
 to be of lower quality than expected. The model of the F2000 assault rifle actually looks untextured 
 and plastic.
  Now into the  
 client data................ yep, I ate ice-cream, went to the bathroom and back, and it was still 
 loading. Apparently, after installing the game, my custom video settings has been switched to 1024x768 
 and because I had to switch back, it has to optimize shaders all over again.
  The new maps are confusing, especially the indoor areas and every building looks like any other 
 building in some locations, making it very hard to find your way around sometimes. Some maps are 
 also horrendous to play, like inside the aircraft carrier and the submarine base. They are so heavily 
 lagged to a point that I would just give up playing. And for those who are always standing in line 
 waiting for the choppers.... well, the good news is you have to wait no more, cuz nobody could fly 
 them probably with such lag and they are always left unused. O, one more thing, the other new vehicles 
 are also very diificult to maneuver. The Apc wobbles too much and the civilian cars has no friction 
 to the tires.
  Anything good about the game? Maybe a few, like the night vision goggles and the grappling hook 
 stuff. But the novelty wears off very quickly and soon you just want to play the game like normal. 
 
  Maybe my feelings aren't so mixed about it after all. It simply is inferior to the original and 
 way over frustrating to play. Maybe now's the time for me to quit playing the game altogether, 
 and that is good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogeye58
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 11:57 am PT
Review:  Well the expansion is worth the $$. I've been playing fps a long time and this expansion offers 
 a lot of fun night and day maps. Great choppers, new weapons, and best of all some of these weapons 
 can be used in BF2. Go get some!
  
  Stealthy sniping makes a comback to. Night vision is really fun and the flashbangs are perfect. 
 Oh ya, watch out for the crazzy gas! Hours of fun await you with this expansion. Don't worry about 
 your global scores, EA is merging BF2 and BFSF into one score. So you get to keep all your goodies 
 and eat some to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JHKotcher
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 8:35 am PT
Review:  Another example of EA shoveling a product before it was finished. This game is almost unplayable. 
 I have a high end system than can run F. E. A. R., Quake 4, or BF2 at high settings. However this 
 expack is so buggy I crash almost every game. 
  The original BF2 was no gem but this game is truly a crime. In your review you speak of the bugs 
 and how bad they are, yet you give this game a passing mark. Shame on you! You are obviously in 
 the pocket of software companies, much like auto magazines are paid off by car markers. 
  Dont buy this game, get FEAR or Quake instead. They are far more stable than this game will ever 
 be.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricojfdd
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 26, 2005 2:49 am PT
Review:  Save yourself the money and spend it for something else like a hardware upgrade for use with BF2.
 
  Unfortunately, compared to Battlefield 2, this expansion pack only offers a couple of value-added 
 items such as the grappling hook and the night viion/gas masks....
  Forget about the new factions; they are not that impressive (compared to the original BF2) - and 
 their weapons suck.....
  Regarding the new levels; again, BF2 was more interesting compared to the new Special Forces levels... 
 OK the importance is now more on a close-quarter combat situations with less vehicles and open 
 areas, but if that is what you are looking for go get Call of Duty 2.....
  To be honest, this was a severe let-down compared to BF2. (And I won't even start to mention the 
 bugs and hangs/crashes/lagging this extension brings to your gaming - there are enough posts in 
 the forums for that...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddvmaxx
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 10:56 pm PT
Review:  The game was claiming i was tk-ing , but in fact , i was not . Not very good for your stats ! Installation 
 was a pain (as usuall with EA) . Why can't EA just do it right the first time ? It would be worth 
 the extra wait to have the game complete ,without the bugs out of the box . It is kind of lame 
 the same day the game hits stores there is a patch already . Can you say rush-job ??? I also thought 
 the boards would be a little better . 'Iron Gator' is nothing but a fragfest. Not much in the way 
 of strategy there . Just storm the carrier . I think the borders on all boards should be enlarged 
 . just my opinion . It is worth the $30.00 , so don't get me wrong . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripleXpacK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2005 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Well if battlefield2 was frustrating with all its bugs don't expect the addon to be better. Longer 
 load times (hummff!) same stupid punishing system and game closing without warning. But the cool 
 things are the new night vision , gaz mask and grappling hooks, but don't expect to use them in 
 the old BF2 maps, cause they only work with the maps of special forces. The new maps are small 
 and more city streets combat oriented, great thing for those like me who loved Karkland in BF2. 
 They added new factions but i dosen't make the game more fun and the voices especially the British 
 are just plain lame and annoying. In the end its not a bad addon but i could live without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolfay17
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2005 9:41 pm PT
Review:  DICE definatley knows what they're doing. The grappling hook and zip lines really do add a lot 
 to the game play. If you're walking down the street, you absolutely have to look up now on the 
 rooftops for enemies or otherwise you're toast. Night maps are awesome, you get that covert feel. 
 The new unlocks are great, especially the F200 for assault, and the G36E for Medic are worth unlocking.
 
  
  Since 1.12 patch, I haven't really seen any bugs or glitches to tell you the truth. Any Battlefield 
 fan should get the expansion. Also the vehicles don't live up to the rest of the game, but being 
 Special Forces based, I imagine infantry combat was more emphasized. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionwolf
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 25, 2005 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Every once in awhile, Gamespot editors write reviews that really hit home. The main review for 
 Battlefield 2: SF is one of these reviews. 
  
  When the game runs, it can be lots of fun. However, my system, which isn't very old, and is running 
 a BFG 6800 GT OC, will run the original BF 2 with no problems (everything on high and re capped 
 at 1248 x 1024) . Every once in awhile the screen will stutter slightly with no effect on gameplay. 
 Ever since SF was installed on my computer along with the 1.12 patch, I can't even play the original 
 BF 2 correctly without completely unplayable stuttering, and occasional crashes to the desktop. 
 And since it takes forever and a fortnight to load up a map on this game (and even worse on SF) , 
 it gets really old spending all of 1 hour of gameplay in over 5 hours spent on the computer. 
 
  
  When it runs, it's a lot of fun. Grenades are a bit over-used, but the weapon upgrades like the 
 F2000 are spectacular. A little more variety in the vehicles would have been nice. The SAS would 
 actually use different vehicles than the LAV-25 (which is only used by US Marines) . The insurgents 
 should probably get more than just a beat-up truck. 
  
  The detail put into the style of the maps & the art and design are really top-notch. However, these 
 are only great things if one can enjoy them, and in this case... one can't. I recommend to wait 
 until the bugs are fixed.
  
  Wolf- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devinda1
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 25, 2005 2:55 pm PT
Review:  For an expansion pack this game is well worth it, it takes the BF2 to a new angle with night assualts 
 and close quartered combat, which i think the skill in 
  game lies. Yes sure they could have added a whole fleet of new tanks, jets and heavy weapons, but 
 it is not really neccary, especially for the theme of the game.
  The idea of special forces is get there fast ,hit them hard and get out. The idea of jet ski's 
 ,atv's and normal civilian cars are well thought out. New weapons such as grappling hooks are great. 
 the game is a resource hog, but i have had no problems playing the game and the grafics are well 
 worth the time you have to wait for the maps to load. Face it games are getting more demanding, 
 you either upgrade or sit in the sidlines complaining . As for stability , the game is rock solid, 
 i have a nvidia card, my friends have problems with it and they have ATi. guess it depends on your 
 system. this game did not cost as much as BF2
  so people should not judge it as game but a great add on to a great game. hopefully there will be 
 more of them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazykazmikaze
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Okay this is the expansion I have been waiting for it seems this game was gonna be perfect and 
 it was so I installed the patch and got on server and bam soooo much action and what I like about 
 this one is..... LESS VEHICLES!!! WOOT!!! But then came the lag : ( and soon I was lookin one place 
 and then I turn wham im looking some place else so i attmet to change my T1 lan to a lower setting 
 but even on a lower setting I still lagged up . weird.... but overall this game was awsome!!! Its 
 a must get for BF2 fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wgerard
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 25, 2005 11:54 am PT
Review:  When this game functions, it is incredibly enjoyable to play. However, I have never encountered 
 a game that is given me so many technical problems. After weeks of tweaking my top of the line 
 system (double 7800 gtx's, 3.2 ghz dual core pentium, 2G RAM, etc.) , it still locks up every game. 
 
  
  At this point, even the expansion won't install... which I have to say is a first for me. I guess 
 I should have known better than to purchase it. 
  
  This is the most frustrating gaming experience I have ever had... and am annoyed that EA seems to 
 care so little for its customers. Putting out an expansion (which is even more buggy than the original) 
 when you haven't fixed the widespread bugs with the original game? 
  
  Avoid this one unless you enjoy hours of frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChauncyX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2005 6:05 am PT
Review:  If you love BF2 then Special Forces is a must have. It adds even more great elements to an already 
 outstanding franchise. The maps, armies and weapons are great, though the lack of unique stock 
 weapons for The Spetnaz (Russian Army) is a bit disappointing, but that is a very minor gripe. The 
 diminshed presence of air power, especially the lack of jets, is a nice change from the original, 
 since many marginal players use jets to rack up points on BF2 (if u need your jet fix, you can just 
 go to a BF2map. This new expansion is so superior in so many ways, it will already leve you wondering 
 what the next expansion might bring. Get it now soldier.
  
  Positives-Great maps, new armies & unlocks (which you can use in BF2) plus cool stock weapons for 
 the Brits and US Navy Seals, plus other weapons/vehicles (Rebels & insurgents have RPG's)
  
  Negatives-Resource hog ----load time is long between SF maps & BF2
  (Note-if u can play BF2 then 
 you won't have any problems with the expansion-just need 3 gigs of unused memory 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alrenchy1
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 25, 2005 4:00 am PT
Review:  With the prequel Battle Field 2 this expansion is just amazing thus adding more power and more 
 carnage. As if the other series titles are not good enough once again yet another great squad based 
 shooting game. The night time fighting adds more challenge and more fun in the gameplay. Concentrating 
 mainly on ground unit fighting and urban combat and all the elements combined making the game of 
 the greatest and an instant classic. Truly it revolutionized and have set a new standard of the 
 genre. Still like the prequel most gamers favors the small and urban areas consisting of mainly 
 streets and buildings. It's the fast paced action of the urban assault that made many games kept 
 playing the game both in multiplayer and singleplayer. Athough in singleplayer mode the AI of the 
 enemy combatant are not that intelligent, rushing in the open rather than getting cover and concealment. 
 Second the ground vehicles controls are very easy and simple yet when it comes to the aircraft 
 rather sluggish and slow responce to control. With the addition of some gadget like the NVG, grappling 
 hook and zip lines have significantly improve the power and balance of the game. The sound of the 
 game are amazing but still could use some improvement. In conclusion, this game is an instant classics 
 and would be popular game for many months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asylumsys
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 25, 2005 3:21 am PT
Review:  The maps and new weapons are Great, but unless you are British or US sides you dont get to play 
 with the new weapons. Then every one in the server goes US or Brit. Just leaveing a small few on 
 the other army. But when you play regular BF2 you get to use all the unlocks? So if you plan on playing 
 BF2 SF get ready for a real boreing and fast game .PLus the still havent fixed problems from before 
 ,such as vehicles with mounted guns do more damage to a air craft then the anti aircrafts. Plus 
 the ground to air rockets are worthless since it takes 4 to shoot down a black hawk. LOL. And when 
 your trying to shoot down a jet? Forget it .Its not going to happen unless there comeing at you 
 in a straight line or leaveing in a straight line there just to darn slow to catch a jet. And if 
 you make a contact hit well there just to weak. The sniper rifles are the worst. I dont snipe but 
 i feel that the sniper weapons were short handed. Plus the didnt get any extras in the expansion, they 
 should have atleast got a mini med pack or some xtra ammo for a one time use! Im a fan of EA games 
 but there just not listening to there community. They might make them but playing then is a different 
 story. I thionk they need new beta testers than speak there mind and not kiss tail because there 
 standing before the man. Or maybe they just dont care 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenJaws219
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 24, 2005 7:52 pm PT
Review:  The expansion excellent, although a little short on the bonus content side. 6 new factiosn are 
 there, but you can't pick each one, like the original BF 2, factiosn are designated to each map, 
 so If you like British, you can only use them on certain maps, new factions brings new weapons, 
 and the new weapons are pretty cool and a wide variety of weapons is something we can't get enough 
 of. Night vision adds a different aspect into the game, with ziplines for fast escapes and hooks 
 for climbing when there's no ladder, flashbang, smoke grenade and smoke mask makes it feel kinda 
 like Splinter Cell, and the action is slowed, because of the extra decision making, button pressing, 
 and other new tactics. New vehicles don't set themselves apart from BF 2, only new additions worth 
 mentioning is the one person jet ski and ATV, and now you can drive civilian cars. Not all the 
 maps are at night, which is when the night vision is enabled. One map for example I got to play 
 was Ghost Town, the map is really diverse and complicated, multiple ladders to mutiple building 
 tops in narrow backalleys takes a long to get used to, get ready to spent some good ol' hours adjusting 
 to the map (and also loading, which is painfully slow) Some of the servers lags a lot, although 
 the servers are running better now than day 1 and day 2, there are still some issues, but definately 
 will be fixed immediately. This is a decent expansion, but more could've been added and the absence 
 of a single player is still ignored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coelhods
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2005 11:42 am PT
Review:  You may find out that installing this expansion pack is way too dificult. That's bad, but once 
 you get it done it is really worth of. I myself had no problems at all.
  
  The point in BF2: SF is that infantry combat has achieved a new level. City maps from BF2 (karkand, 
 Sharqi, Mashtur) are little villages compared to city maps in SF. SF maps style makes me remember 
 BFV Saigon 68 style, BTW, my favorite map. 
  
  Ok, they have reclicled a lot of material, but cool stuff come along to sum up and make cities 
 much more realistic. Besides, grappling hook, zip line, and flashbang and tear-gas grenades are 
 simple changes that make up for a great difference in combat action.
  
  Night maps are really cool and they stand for something completely different from standard maps 
 of BF series, the fps loss compared to BF2 maps might be anoying to some people with old machines 
 but that's not like when DOOM III was released.
  
  For infantry guy, SF is hot stuff!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tycobb79
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 8:21 am PT
Review:  To expand on the Review Deck, Special Forces has about the same level of completeness that BF2 
 had when it shipped. There really is not much effort being put in the single player aspect of the 
 expansion. (same as BF2) Dice/EA have choosen to focus on multiplayer almost exclusively, understandable, 
 when most people play online. This title lives on the edge of stability. Crashes are not uncommon. 
 When it works, it is a good looking game, the shader effects are great. 
  When Battlefield 2 was released back in June, EA had promised to release the tools needed by modders 
 to use bots in custom maps, or add to existing maps. I wonder why this hasn't been done? An updated 
 word on the subject would be welcomed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makeuser
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2005 7:17 am PT
Review:  I love bf2, but ea hosed up the expansion, patch, patch, patch. Wait a month or more before you 
 buy!?!?! I couldn't play for day even after installing the the new patch from 11/22. I think you 
 have to be DIE HARD GAMER to play bf2'; with the patching, the sys upgrade and now the crappy expansion 
 file/patch. It seems to be the pc developer rule and not the exception (that's why consoles sell 
 right? that, and the console user IQ) .
  
  That said, the expansion is cool. New guns, semi-new kits, and new maps. I've invested nearly 400hrs 
 in BF2 and look forward to investing more (especially when the bugs are fixed, quickly pls EA!!!) . 
 
  
  My one fear is the expansion might scare off all the noobs and I won't have any one to kill. It'll 
 be nothing but pros like counterstrike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yopefonic
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 24, 2005 7:08 am PT
Review:  i'll be short on this one! great game if u can set you're self over the bugs that the game has. 
 we've seen it before with BF2, buggy at first but getting better on the run of it. the first thing 
 u run into is that the installer needs a minimum of 3 gigs on you're C drive when u wanna install. 
 this is the first of many bugs. but patch 1.12 is already out and fixes some of the problems.
 
  
  but enough about the bugs and problems. why do I give it a great grade? the night element is one 
 of my favorite things of the game, it gives sometimes gives a sense of chaos, sense of even closer 
 combat. and the maps are more infantry based what is a plus in this form. I find myself comparing 
 Battlefield 2 with desert combat (mod of battlefield 1942. this game brings it a lot closer with 
 more indoor fighting and weapons to support that like the tear gas, flash bang, grappling hook 
 and the zip line. these all give a better game play then the original battlefield 2.
  
  the creators of the game have played a smart game. because BF2: SF adds some content to bf2 as 
 well. so sometimes in BF2 u will find somebody with a BF2: SF weapon. so in fact everybody will 
 need to buy BF2: SF if they want to keep up.
  
  so! great game, not so great start. wait a month at it'll be ok. i hope :P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minhveryhard
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 24, 2005 5:45 am PT
Review:  Umm... Ok, I think this game get better than the BF2 one. This is one of my favorite game.
  The Gameplay:
  Cool! EA games is very very clever to make this one. The gameplay is impessive 
 and I like the Online of this game, very easy control, so it's very very GREAT!!!
  The Graphics:
  This is the coollest part of this game. The graphics are beautiful like trees 
 or soldiers, LOOK VERY COOL. However, if ur computer is not enough to play this game, u should upgrade 
 it now!!!
  The Sounds:
  If u have the Altec Lansing at ur home and if u like music too so don't think just try it. The 
 music just quite good but the soldiers' are very... WOOT!!!
  The Others:
  This game u can play for a long time but some of u will be boring very quickly but... THIS GAME 
 IS A MUST-BUY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game__Spy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 3:34 am PT
Review:  Strongly recommended and just as appealing as the previous game, a solid expansion pack. This guy 
 has given countless other poor reviews with discourages and people wanting to try the game, learn 
 how to review! I might not be a good reviewer, but surely at least I can give a decent score! Any 
 people that have red some of his reviews, don't take them to heart, most of them can be brilliant 
 games, its just that the reviewer is too stupid to consider things in the game, which really get 
 me angry *Refuses to swear* Why do reviews have to go over 100 words?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: far-cry
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 23, 2005 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield SF is not the thing you need buy
  
  Oke 1 things 1 I like BF2 but when I heard that the expansion pack 
  whas out went to the store 
 and buy it to make it short it just sucks
  The night levels are stupid the level is on some places totally dark
  On a ugly way the night 
 vision is to blurry whit a sound rip-off 
  From splinter cell the lightning is not nice to look at and its even 
  Slower than BF2 and there 
 is no day and night Sigel
  Next to this its add a bug wane you quit BF SF The menu 
  Song keeps playing in windows and its the same song as BF2
  I know that 1 for now {on mine pc} 
 
  When you want to play BF2 it will reload BF2 {thats really sucks}
  The new weapons are nice but there not many of theme and the mec sf 
  Cant even select 1 of 
 them and the m203 is gone,
  Theres not even an xm8 ore a m4a1 m203
  Ore a gun whit a flashlight ore 1 whit a night vision scope 
  Just 8 maps and 10 new vehicles 
 some off the shut have been
  In the 1 game 
  The lack op sever are also a pain in the ass {at the start}
  Especially for those Ho buys the 
 game thru download service 
  And yes there 1 more thing there is not new game mode 
  That just a bit lame to scared to try out something new I think 
  Yes I know allot of bate thing 
 but its true, its just a small mod 
  And that not what I whas expecting 
  A real good mod team can doe many times better thane this 
  There are some things I like the 
 new Zip line and grappling hook are
  Some nice new thing but for me thats it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: weregoindown07
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 23, 2005 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I love battlefield 2 and i couldnt wait to get the expansion but it kinda let me down because i 
 was hoping more weapons for the MEC and for the MP5 and M24 the maps are good. EA needs to release 
 a patch with some new weapons, vehicles is another problem i had i wish the tank didnt suck (the 
 new one) the new cars are cool but they are like othere things weve had the only thing i liked 
 was the ATV it was actually pretty fast and you could kill people with it but the bad thing about 
 the ATV is the damage it gets is horibble but other than stuff i think the game is great and still 
 one of the best games ive ever played and would recomend the game to anyone who likes or doesnt 
 even like FPS . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warbandit155
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 3:41 pm PT
Review:  The game Battlefield 2 Special Forces is a good game. For only 30 dollars it is a good buy. The 
 gameplay though is like the original which is a good thing. But it all just feels to much the same. 
 The night levels are extremely hard to see people in. The new vehicles are nice but there are to 
 little vehicles to hold your attention for long. The new weapons are nice but you can only use 
 them if you are the british or the AMERICANS. The new maps or nicly done , but as i said avoid 
 the night maps they are gay. So if u kinda like battlefield 2 dont waste your money. But if u do 
 like it buy it. This game was a let down to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcboogs
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 23, 2005 3:26 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I am a huge fan of BF2, that should be stated. The Special Forces expansion pack 
 is one of the better if not the best expansion on a FPS I have ever played. Most people who are 
 fans of BF2 really enjoy the infantry heavy maps [Sharqi, Karkand, and Mashtuur] . Clearly the developers 
 took that to heart in designing Special Forces. BF2: SF is a primarily infantry targetted expansion 
 and it does a superb job.
  
  It is easier to destroy armor and there is less of it. The grappling hook and zipline [which I 
 was very skeptical of] open up some new strategies and because they take some time to operate, 
 doesn't result in people climbing and zinging all over the map. Furthermore, the tear gas and flashbangs 
 make for some fun offensive and defensive strategies. Because access to new items is based on class, 
 the expansion serves in making it more important to have a balanced squad to be really effective. 
 If you have one guy with a hook, one with a zipline, you can move the whole squad. The night levels 
 with nightvision are well constructed, and balance light and dark areas well. The new vehicles 
 fit the theme and don't unbalance gameplay. For the suicide bombers out there, the new ATVs are 
 real fun to load up with C4 and drive around.
  
  It is $30, but for the number of hours it will afford in terms of replayability it is well worth 
 it. Furthermore, you can use newly unlocked weapons in original BF2 if you get the expansion, which 
 is a nice plus. I always felt that the infantry vs. infantry was the most fun in BF2 and was annoyed 
 with how dominant and important vehicles are in some maps. The expansion really puts the emphasis 
 on well balanced cohesive infantry squads. 
  
  The best FPS on any platform just got better and more addictive. Well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theshadowhunter
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 8, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  this game is so fun, i stoped playing BF2 for a long time because of the glictches and after the 
 patches came out i didnt want to go back but this game made me go back, the new maps are so fun, 
 Ive played most of them and they all are really good designed. i think the best moment i had was 
 where i went with a sniper that had a zip line and i had a grapling hook and we both traveled into 
 enemy territorry and we both took a control point, it was soo fun. there is nothing i have against 
 this game, it was everything i expected it to be, the online of this game makes it, teamwork in 
 squads are unstopable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradholloman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2005 6:00 am PT
Review:  I dont understand people who say disappointing. In comparison to what? This patch adds a different 
 flavor to a great sim. Only thing I am having troubles with is the grapple, gets kinked and you 
 cant climb. Probably due to poor throwing. I like the new weapons unlocks and all new badges. This 
 game definately utilizes the benefits of modern graphics, and physics. I give it a 10 without hesitation.
 
  I also like the addition of different factions. Its nice to be able to go to different parts of 
 the world, and have new maps. I have yet to play a night map as loaded the game yesterday, but 
 from what the screens and videos look like, it will be a great oppurtunity to get the badge for 
 basic knife skill, hehe. sneek and cut. Hope to see you all on there, I am sure you will get fragged. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimrod6881
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 23, 2005 5:49 am PT
Review:  With total new vehicles and weapons this new expansion is a must to every lover of BF saga now 
 you can kill all your enemies not only in the grounds but in the cities too...100% and 5***** spawn, walk, run, kill, drive, fly 
 is some of the possibilities of this game! Without any doubt is the best multiplayer game of his 
 kind! Do you think your tough... Try BF online, with your friends your enemies even your parents 
 and your dog... the war has come to PC with this excelent game... no more words to describe it do 
 yourself a favor and buy it... :P! Thnx 4 such a great game to all the developers!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mobius06
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  very disapppointing is the least I can say.
  Weapons: nothing really new except for the SAS , can easily say the research work have been rushed 
 , particulary about US SF ,Terrorists and Insurgents.
  
  Vehicles: Nothing great here, didn't know SAS were using LAV-25, Humvee and other US hardware......... Why 
 don't give factions realistic vehicles, guess this is too hard ......
  
  Maps: nice in general but off course you won't see any US vs. Insurgents......
  
  I was really 
 anticipating something awesome out of this one but turns out to be one of the greatest let down 
 since Halo 2.
  
  The day publishers will stop rushing for rapid release will be a great day for gaming industry. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vetteman24
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Great addition to Battlefield series. Focus on infantry fighting is welcome addition. New weapons 
 are awesome and provide new unlocks, too. You will rack up kills like crazy after playing in BF2. 
 This is BF2 meets CS: Source w/ vehicles and better weapons and maps. Buy this expansion . . . new 
 weapons, new armies, new maps, zip line, grappel hook, night vision, and sooo much more. What's 
 not to like? Well, it does need another patch, which it why I couldn't give this a 10. But EA will 
 fix the little bugs and they don't affect gameplay. With all the things the gameplay has to support 
 (up to 64 players, multiple vehicles, stat tracking) it is amazing it works as well as it does. 
 Bravo EA. Yet another home run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf4698
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 6:30 pm PT
Review:  For thirty bucks it is an awesome upgrade to an excellent game. I give it a ten out of ten. I havnt 
 been this pleased with a game since the Quest for Glory series from Sierra. Only downpoints I can 
 see is that it is a resource pig. Even more so then the unexpanded BF2 already was. Be sure you're 
 not running too many backgroung programs and you have a good video card. You can reduce the screen 
 resolution to get the game move faster but it takes alot out of gameplay. I recommend running as 
 high a res as your box can handle. You'll love this expansion! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
