-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: BattleForge
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/battleforge/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 RTS/CCG genres harmoniously merged.
 Competitive multiplayer rewards quick thinking.
 Designing different decks is fun.
 No class or faction restraints.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story is a bother to read.
 Only 19 campaign missions.
 Auction house interface is flawed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  3, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.3, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 166 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Phenomic
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 23, 2009 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This fascinating hybrid of real-time strategy and collectible card battling offers a unique and 
 enjoyable take on both genres. 

  Hybridization in PC games has rarely been as ambitious and as well executed as in BattleForge, 
 which expertly merges real-time strategy play with a collectible card game, thereby spawning its 
 own genre, the RTS card game. The result is an innovative RTS game that rewards thinking on your 
 feet, and a card game that puts thousands of opponents at your fingertips and brings your fantastic 
 minions to life. Despite a few imperfections, BattleForge has the potential to captivate fans of 
 both of its component genres.  

           Who needs a barracks? Summon reinforcements wherever you have ground forces.      

 
  At its core, BattleForge is a real-time strategy game with a seamlessly integrated card game mechanic. 
 You control an army of fantasy creatures, ranging in size from tiny to gargantuan, and undertake 
 missions, which are resolved through real-time battles with standard point-and-click controls and 
 an excellent drag-and-drop control group interface. Instead of building structures to produce units, 
 you summon your forces directly onto the battlefield by playing cards from your onscreen deck. 
 Likewise, you can summon defensive towers and cast healing, damage, and crowd-control spells in 
 the same manner. Each card has a power cost, so you need to seize resource buildings called power 
 wells to fund your war, as well as monuments, at which you build orbs that allow you to use increasingly 
 powerful cards. For instance, you start each match with one orb and can play only level 1 cards, 
 but when you build your second orb, you'll be able to play level 1 and 2 cards. This makes capturing 
 and defending monuments and power wells central to your strategy. As for tactics, one important 
 technique is matching the attack type of your units to the armor class of enemy units. Another 
 tactical consideration is deciding between summoning your forces anywhere you have a ground unit 
 or tower, causing the new troops to suffer a temporary health and ability loss, or summoning them 
 at one of your power wells or monuments for instant full effectiveness.  

  Playing RTS matches in BattleForge is a blast, but you can also derive hours of enjoyment outside 
 the battlefield by planning, designing, and tweaking your virtual decks. There's no limit to the 
 number of different decks you can make, so there's no limit to the number of classes or "specs" 
 you can play with the same character. Each deck can have up to 20 cards, and each card belongs 
 to one of four schools of magic -- fire, frost, nature, or shadow -- and is color-coded red, blue, 
 green, or purple, respectively. Similarly, the crucial orbs you control on the battlefield are 
 color-coded, and you need to decide what color orb to build when you capture a monument. To play 
 a shadow card, for instance, you must have a purple orb, and so on. Figuring out how many orbs 
 and what colors you need may sound complicated, but it's executed with a simple and intuitive dot 
 system.  

  Like in certain physical card games, your decks will be most effective when they stick to either 
 one or two colors, but the game doesn't restrict your design freedom in any way. You start the 
 game with four premade decks and 3,000 BattleForge points, the game's main currency, which you 
 can spend to buy cards from other players or directly from the game, in the form of boosters (eight 
 mystery cards for 250 BF points) or tomes (six boosters for 1,250) . Each booster contains one rare 
 or ultra-rare card, which you can often sell to other players for enough points to buy a whole 
 new booster. In short, the game starts you off with plenty of cards and points to keep you entertained 
 for a long time, but if you want more, you can buy points at the rate of $6.62 for 500 or $26.56 
 for 2,250. While you won't get free cards for beating missions, you will receive upgrades to improve 
 the cards you already own, which will make your decks more powerful.  

           Building a Better Werebeast: You can upgrade your cards to improve their attributes.  
     

  In contrast to the idyllic synergy among BattleForge's various gameplay elements is the dysfunctional 
 relationship between gameplay and storyline. You'll find only the barest details of a story and 
 minimal character development within the missions themselves, and in all likelihood you'll feel 
 closer to your decks than to any of the game's non-player characters. Although the game has a thorough 
 and lengthy story to explain why you're hovering over the battlefield throwing lightning bolts 
 at giant purple crustaceans, it is primarily told through a virtual book, which you can either 
 read or skip. Frustratingly, the book doesn't save your place between viewings, so you have to 
 click through dozens of pages to get to sections that you haven't read yet. Here's the basic story: 
 Many years ago, the gods made you a Skylord for your valiant contribution to their war against 
 the giants. In the intervening years, you spent your time using the Forge of Creation to summon 
 up fantastic creatures (and apparently playing cards with other Skylords) , but now you must use 
 your powers to help humankind, because the gods have disappeared in their hour of need. However, 
 you can simply choose to ignore humankind and challenge other Skylords to competitive matches until 
 the end of time, if that's what makes you happy.     

  Of course, tackling the story-driven campaign means that you must show mercy and help the humans, 
 even though they can be rather incompetent allies and do annoying things like send out convoys 
 before you are ready to escort them. The campaign consists of 19 unique missions, requiring varying 
 numbers of players, from 1 to 12. Finding enough players for the big missions is usually pretty 
 painless, but a few other aspects of the campaign can be troublesome, like dealing with teammates 
 who take more than their share of the resources and racing the clock to complete timed objectives. 
 The biggest problem with the campaign in BattleForge, though, is simply that it's over too quickly. 
 And though you can lengthen the experience by playing most of the missions on standard, advanced, 
 and expert difficulties, this option is a poor replacement for more content.  

           Unsatisfied with the monstrosities in your deck? Buy new ones at the auction house.   
    

  Competitive multiplayer is a staple of RTS and card games, and BattleForge nails it. On 12 bare-bones 
 maps designed for either one-vs.-one or two-vs.-two combat, you'll face opponents matched to your 
 PVP experience level. While powerful cards can swing the advantage, these battles are essentially 
 tests of skill, first in designing effective decks, second in tailoring your offensive strategy 
 to fit your opponent, and third in choosing quick and effective counters for your enemy's attacks. 
 Even though there is no fog of war and you can see everything on the battlefield, you'll never 
 know exactly what your opponent is going to throw at you, since he can summon units anywhere he 
 has a ground presence, including the middle of your base. As a result, it's important to always 
 keep enough power on hand to summon an effective counter and, likewise, you should try to estimate 
 when your opponent is low on power so you can ensure that his weak spot will stay weak. These are 
 just a few of the tactical options that result from instant unit-summoning, which makes multiplayer 
 battles exciting, fast-paced, and constantly evolving.  

  BattleForge's community interaction is functional but unrefined. One example is the auction house, 
 where you can buy and sell cards for BattleForge points. Although it's convenient to search for 
 cards by color, orb level (1, 2, 3, or 4) , rarity, and type (unit, spell, or tower) , you can't 
 sort the search results by price or time remaining. As well, searches return only the first 50 
 results and display only five results at a time. Another feature that could be improved is the 
 chat. Adding the ability to link cards into trade chat would not only make life easier for potential 
 buyers and sellers, but would also help bridge the gap between BattleForge's American and European 
 players by enabling easy trade communication among different language speakers.  

  The environments in BattleForge at first bear a striking resemblance to the RTS classic Warcraft 
 III, but the game quickly differentiates itself with a menagerie of creatures great and small. 
 Werewolves, insects, skeletons, dragons, giant worms, and bulbous monstrosities represent only 
 a few of the creatures at your disposal, and they give the game a larger-than-life aesthetic. Additionally, 
 you'll notice fun visual flourishes, like how the flying frost battleship shoots confetti when 
 you summon reinforcements and how the Fathom Lord does a shuffling lobster-man dance when inactive. 
 The graphics and sound aren't groundbreaking, but the visual effects don't disappoint, the unit 
 voice-acting is solid, and the score is beautifully orchestrated and dynamic.  

           After beating this boss, the players still have some gigantic units on hand. Attack on 
 Toyko, anyone?      

  BattleForge is remarkable not only because its component genres are integrated together so well, 
 or because it's unique, playable, and fun, but also because it can make an RTS fan enjoy a collectible 
 card game. You'd do well to check it out if you're even remotely interested in either genre, and 
 provided the player community sticks around there's no reason why you shouldn't still be enjoying 
 BattleForge many months from now.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: magicquebec
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2009 11:52 am PT
Review:  So far, i must say i'm really addicted to Battleforge, i'm not a huge PVP fan, for me PVP is not 
 what i look for in a game, i really love coop multiplayer and Battleforge offers just that !
  
  Battleforge is like playing Warcraft 3, but instead of playing Orcs, you play.. what you want!
 
  
  You can use 20 cards in your deck, cards are: spells, units and building. So you make your own 
 army with your own combination of units and spell, backed up by your some towers !
  
  The game is also going to improve a lot since they will be releasing expansions, so new maps, new 
 cards, new units, new spells, new buildings.
  
  Sure all this makes the game very hard to balance some cards will not see play because theres just 
 a superior version of it, but if you're fans of any TCG, you should know about that.
  
  And the real fun part of the game is trying to get all the upgrades you need for your deck, they 
 are rewards for your victories in PVE and PVP. You can enhance some cards you own with a second 
 copy of the card, this is the way to improve your favorite deck!
  
  Graphics are good, Music is great! Some minor bugs at release.. but hey !... how many patches did 
 your favorite MMO gone through already? :P
  
  
  There is some minor design flaws also, IMO they should improve the chat and trade system, but i'm 
 sure they are working on something.
  
  I'm giving Battleforge a 10, it's not worth a 10, but i just want to improve it's rating, for me, 
 a game i play and enjoy is a 10, a game i don't play is a 0.. simple as that, it's a yes or no 
 question.
  
  So join now if you feel like playing something new! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokonut1971
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2009 8:28 am PT
Review:  Once in a while comes a game comes out that just sinks you in. Battleforge is one of those games.
 
  It is everything magic the gathering should have been on a PC and more. Its game play mechanics 
 are similar to magic but the concept is taken light years further by actually letting you play 
 and see the actions of your card in real time in the game thru a RTS style of gameplay.
  
  The game is an hybrid of many games but it is done extremely well. It has the cartoony look of 
 WOW and the game play of many RTS game with dazzling super special effects thrown in the mix. At 
 first glance you will think that it is a game for kids but it is not entirely the case. If you 
 get pass by the cartoony graphics you will see that it is based on magic the gathering which usually 
 pleases different range of ages from kids to mature people but done better and much smarter.
  
  
  Highest possible recommendation. Because of the idea and how it is done.
  
  
  
 
  
  
  Pros: 
  
  Fantastic graphics 
  
  Well designed UI
  
  Easy to play.
  
  Wide variety of units to play with as well as wide range of cards.
  
  Very in depth game with 
 many intricate systems to help you play and have fun.
  
  Super visual effects.
  
  Highly addictive
  
  Good start up tutorial
  
  Highly detailed units and environments.
 
  
  Huge amounts of different video settings so that you can play on almost any machine.
  
  God rays!!!! 
  
  Cloud shadows!!!
  
  
  
  Cons: 
  
  Can become a money sink 
 because you have to buy booster packs to have different parts of the game or units or spells. You 
 do not have to buy and play with the basic cards that you receive with the game.
  
  Success of the game will depend on how committed the developers are in pushing updates to the game 
 and providing cards and maps for the game or content.
  
  Price gauging might and will happen in auction house. ( see auctions )
  
  No single player 
 campaign
  
  Have to be online to play.
  
  Matchmaking can be a pain.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: allinchrist7
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2009 12:46 pm PT
Review:  What is the deal with the critics? 6.7? Come on folks thats just unrealistic. They only thing that 
 people have had a problem with in this game is the price/content ratio of the game, and the fact 
 that you are required to spend actual money to buy extra virtual cards. Its not that big of a deal 
 if you start off with ONE deck that you want to master and spend your points wisely. Dont just 
 use all of your 3000 battlforge points on boosters. Buy cards that you want off the AH or from 
 face to face trade. You can easily get a great deck without having to spend extra money. 
  
  On another note. The gameplay rocks. This game is innovative, extreemly fun, insanely addictive 
 and certainly NOT worth passing up. I'm not critic in the general sense of the term, but Im a big 
 fan of all types of video games. Rts games being a favored type, and if any of you are like me 
 you know when a game sucks hardcore, when a game is decent, and when you play a game that keeps 
 you ungodly addicted to the monitor hours after you promised yourself you would turn it off.. well 
 this is that type of game.. It a great addition to the rts genre. 
  
  I have to say that i havent been very impressed lately with EA games but this has taken me totally 
 by suprise. Great job on this one EA! The only thing that they didnt do well with this game was 
 advertisement. I didnt even hear of the game until the day it came out. But maybe they wanted it 
 that way to take us all by suprise.... who knows.... in any case, for what its worth, i recommend 
 this game to anyone looking for some great online rts gameplay becuase this game WILL deliver that 
 and much more . Hope you try it out. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robertski
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2009 7:04 am PT
Review:  If you have even a passing interest in games like Magic The Gathering and/or you are a fan of fantasy 
 of RTS games, this game is for you. In a nutshell you initialy start the game with a couple dozen 
 cards and 3000 Battleforge points. You trade these points for booster packs, each with 8 cards 
 in each. So you have a total of 96 cards out of the current total of 200. You can buy more if you 
 want, but to be honest its going to take you some time to get to know your cards.
  The game play is really quiet simple, create a deck of 20 cards and then start a game, this can 
 be PvE, PvP or my favourite Co-Op P v E. You use your cards to cast spells, summon creatures and 
 buildings. Its all very simple to play but very hard to master. You need power points to cast your 
 cards and Elemental shrines of the same colour as your deck. Then you kick the **ap out of each 
 other using sneaky tactics and summoning better card tactics then you opponent. The Graphics are 
 colourfull and in my opinion brilliant. 
  
  This game is so addictive and i absolutley love it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candoitagain
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 14, 2009 3:44 pm PT
Review:  PROS
  
  - Very nice art. A lot of varied, different monsters and spells.
  - Great 3D graphics. The spell effects especially : Blizzard, meteor rain, etc all look great.
 
  - A lot of variety in gameplay. You can swap decks and cards combinations for different strategies.
 
  - You start with 64 cards and 3000 "points" you could use to buy another RANDOM 96 cards (60common, 
 24uncommon, and 12 rare to ultra rare) for a total of 160 starting cards.
  - Decent (but regrettably short) PvE (player versus environment) campaign you can play solo or 
 with your friends in 2, 4, and 12 players maps.
  - Sucks you in. Gameplay is fresh and fun, and collecting cards and upgrading them can be addictive.
 
  
  CONS
  
  - Breaks the bank. 50-60$ for retail box, and you WILL feel the need to spend more money on cards.
 
  - Flawed PvP. Balance issues mainly.
  - Absence of AI for skirmishes. It is also not possible to play this game offline, not even the 
 campaign.
  - LEGION of technical problems, some of them very annoying.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Gameplay reminds you of an RTS, but instead of having to harvest gold and make unit-producing buildings. 
 You will secure "magic orbs" and "energy generators" that will let you cast the "cards" like you 
 would cast a spell using mana. Cards can be monsters, buildings (like towers) , or spells. Most 
 spells are damage oriented, but there are others like freeze, heal, frenzy, teleport, and so on.
 
  
  The more energy generators you secure, the more energy (and thus troops) you can bring to the battlefield, 
 and the more "orbs" you secure the more advanced cards you can cast. Orbs are the equivalent of 
 tech levels in any RTS game. And once you hit around 4 orbs, you can cast the most advanced cards 
 like Dragons and Titans which are the equivalent of your own mini bosses.
  
  I thought the system was very interesting, as it is more aggressive and instant than any RTS. You 
 can cast cards and units right on the battlefield instead of having to produce them at your base 
 and transport them. The spells also give you more control (as a player) on the battlefield, since 
 you can do as much with them if not more than your units. If you want a huge army, you can. If 
 you want a small army and blast your way using fireballs and blizzard storms, you can too. If I 
 had to rate this on the gameplay only, it would get at least a 8.5/10.
  
  The problem with BattleForge is not the gameplay, but actually where you get to use it. 
  
 
  CAMPAIGN - story mode
  
  You can play the campaign solo or with allies (on 2, 4 or 12 player maps) to accomplish bigger 
 missions with different card rewards too. There are 15 maps (some solo others coop) which represent 
 around a full day worth of play in the standard difficulty level. Around 12 hours worth of gameplay. 
 
  
  The same 15 maps are available on advanced and expert difficulty, and 3 new maps are only available 
 on those advanced difficulty levels bringing the total number of different missions to 18. Expect 
 to spend another 20 hours to finish advanced. Expert difficulty will need a lot of time and possibly 
 money as a lot of expert maps are not finishable without having some specific rare or expensive 
 cards.
  
  From my experience the campaign missions are decent in that they are challenging, and let you win 
 card upgrades. But once you finish the missions, and/or reach the PvE level cap, all you are left 
 with is the flawed PvP. 
  
  PVP
  
  A couple of PvP matches make you realize that the system is far from complete or well rounded. 
 There are quite a few balances issues, the matches right now are just a quick race to secure resources 
 and use the few known most powerful cards and combinations. The first one to secure the most resources 
 and has the right deck with the hardly stoppable cards wins, and so you can generally guess the 
 winner only a few minutes into the game. 
  
  There is little diversity of strategy or tactics you can see in similarly competitive multiplayer 
 games, and a lot of work has to be done to balance things out and make more tactics viable. Most 
 other players I spoke to feel the same way, and definitely think that buying the game for PvP is 
 a waste as it gets tedious pretty fast. Having to buy cards on the long term with cash to stay 
 competitive does not help either.
  
  As stated earlier, PvP is plagued with bad balance, bad matching system, and the potential to run 
 into players who have far more advanced decks because they bought additional cards. This makes 
 PvP the weakest aspect of BattleForge... Which is a big problem seeing as PvP is where the long 
 term appeal of BattleForge is supposed to be. It is the most important aspect of the game, yet 
 it is where the game falls on its face.
  
  This review takes into account casual to normal gamers. Please note that PvP could be interesting 
 for players dedicated to the game on the long run, who will buy all the rarest cards in order to 
 stay competitive and be able to counter most strategies. Games between players who have all the 
 cards they need or want are still interesting, since that is where skill starts to show and make 
 the difference in determining the winner. But most players will not spend that kind of cash (40$+) 
 or hundreds of hours trading to get to that stage and stay there.
  
  GAME COST, MICRO TRANSACTIONS, AND THE "EA" EFFECT
  
  Reading the official forums, you can 
 see that barely 2 weeks after game launch, some people have already spent up to 200$ on boosters. 
 Most will agree that spending an extra 40$ is a minimum.
  
  This game can be expensive for dedicated and even not so dedicated players. To buy additional cards, 
 you have to pay real money. Around 20$ for 2000 BF points, which represent around 64 random new 
 cards (40common, 16uncommon, 8 rare to ultra rare) . Future updates will constantly add new cards, 
 forcing players who want to stay competitive to keep spending cash on a regular basis to get the 
 new cards.
  
  There is no way to win cards or BF points in game (BF points are the ones you use to buy new cards) . 
 And EA has done its homework to ensure you can't make money or BF points in the game in any way 
 other that paying them directly for it. For example you can get upgrades from playing missions 
 or PvP, but you can't exchange or sell those upgrades for BF points with other players. Auction 
 house is currently extremely slow, and it can take up to 30 seconds for each click to validate 
 (bidding, posting an auction, browsing cards, etc) . Everything is done to force players to spend 
 real cash, and all alternatives are neutralised. (This is an EA game all right!) 
  
  You can in theory make a decent deck without buying boosters. But both trading cards and selling/buying 
 (interface is poorly made, and again the auction house is EXTREMELY laggy) are both tedious and 
 time consuming. I took this approach personally and I was able to make a decent deck (two colors) 
 from trading, but I had to spend as much time if not more chatting and monitoring the auction house 
 than actually playing.
  
  Also worthy of mention is the fact that you don't own your cards. You have no right to sell them 
 for real money for example, even if you do buy them with real money in the first place. Which means 
 if you spend a lot of time and energy (and cash) on this game, and decide one day to quit and get 
 some of your investment back on ebay like with MTG and other similar card collector games... well, 
 you can't. EA is also being very aggressive against people trying to sell cards or accounts, so 
 don't even think of it.
  
  QUALITY OF THE GAME
  
  Currently, 3 weeks after launch there are still numerous grave technical issues plaguing the game. 
 Crash issues, some bugs with objectives that makes maps unfinishable sometimes, random and frequent 
 disconnects problems, and a mysterious 10-15 seconds game freezes even on high speed, high performance 
 systems. Suffice to say that the technical support official forum is extremely active and some 
 players are very frustrated and angry at this game.
  
  The disconnect and freeze problems are especially annoying. Most maps are cooperative and need 
 multiple players, and it can take up to 20-30 minutes to find enough players for the 12 player 
 maps (especially in the more advanced difficulty levels) . And so it is very frustrating to players 
 when the game finally starts and people disconnect and drop out of the game, or when they finish 
 an especially long and hard mission but they do not get victory or reward because of an objective-stopping 
 bug.
  
  BOTTOM LINE
  
  A mix between RTS and card collector games, BattleForge should in theory appeal to a wide audience. 
 But a series of shortcomings insure that it has something to displease everyone. RTS fans looking 
 for competitive multiplayer will find a broken PvP and most will dislike having to buy cards to 
 stay competitive. Card collectors will dislike not owning the cards even if they pay cash for it. 
 And players just looking for a great solo campaign will be turned away by the little bang for the 
 buck it offers, the game being too short and overpriced just for that aspect.
  
  WORTH BUYING?
  
  Last but not least, there is the price which probably will be the deciding 
 factor for many of us. Will a semi-decent campaign, some new game mechanics, and a few hours of 
 broken PvP really be worth 50-60$ if not a lot more?
  
  Let me see what I could get right now at 50$... Dawn of war II (great tactical campaign, sound 
 RTS multiplayer) , Empire Total war (amazing value) , Left 4 Dead, Call of duty, Fallout 3. Even 
 a few great deals on Steam : Mass effect at 19$, Zeno clash 14$, Drakensang at 29$, Far Cry II 
 29$, and so many more.
  
  For me personally, this game is interesting, but it is certainly not worth 50$. There are just 
 too many better investments out there.
  
  Unless you are really a BIG fan of cards collecting games and have the patience to wait for PvP 
 balancing that might or might not happen (this is EA we are talking about after all) , my advice 
 is to wait a few months for this game to hit the bargain bin. (Giving time to the developers to 
 fix the legion of technical problems would not hurt either.)
  
  The game is overpriced right now at 50$, especially considering all the technical problems. But 
 at around 20-30$ it would be worth checking out as the innovative gameplay is still interesting 
 to experience.
  
  EDIT : I finally found my cheap copy of this game on Ebay for 20$. I was able to play it more in 
 depth (clocking an additional 60+ hours of gameplay) and I updated this review accordingly. I still 
 think this game is not worth 50$, especially considering all the technical problems. So try to 
 grab a cheap copy from somewhere. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
