-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Beijing 2008 - The Official Video Game of the Olympic Games
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/beijing2008theofficialvideogameoftheolympicgames/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Detailed athletes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Archaic, blister-causing controls.
 Way too difficult.
 Only 32 countries, with no real participants.
 Level-up system goes against reality.
 Lousy tutorials.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3
Critic Score: 4.8, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 3.9, 305 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Eurocom Ent.
Genre: Olympic Sports
Date:     Aug 4, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Beijing 2008 proves beyond a doubt that rapidly pushing buttons is not fun. 

  Who knew that qualifying for the Olympics could be so difficult? Instead of a worldwide competition 
 crafted around ideas that fit in with the modern gaming landscape, this is just an archaic compilation 
 of mostly old, painful gameplay techniques that wore out their welcome decades ago. Not only do 
 many of Beijing's events focus on the sadistic control method of making you rapidly tap two buttons 
 until your fingers burn, but the unfathomable difficulty of the early rounds also makes the experience 
 almost as grueling as training for the real thing. The minor redeeming elements only squirt a few 
 drops of perfume on the overwhelming stench of the rest of this game.  

  Though all 36 events in Beijing 2008 have some problem, the biggest issue is the ridiculous attributes 
 system that you use to level up your team during the qualifying rounds. For some reason, you command 
 a group of athletes who are slow, weak, and embarrassingly out of shape. By winning qualifying 
 events, you can pump points into categories such as power, speed, and stamina. This is in sharp 
 contrast to real life, in which competitors show up to the games fully prepared to face off against 
 the best in the world. If you fail to achieve the goal for the day (such as placing in three of 
 the five chosen events) , you are branded a failure and have to start that day all over again. Given 
 that you are athletically inferior to all of your opponents, you'll find yourself bringing up the 
 rear over and over again.  

           Using a keyboard makes racing events much easier.      

  Every event in Beijing 2008 
 that involves racing is agonizing if you use a controller, which is developer Eurocom's recommended 
 method. The 11 swimming and running events all require you to repeatedly slam on the buttons or 
 wiggle the sticks to gain speed, which is not only painful but fairly unresponsive as well. Anything 
 that requires pure speed -- such as the 100-meter dash -- is nearly impossible. After you take your 
 mark, you'll have to anxiously wait for the starter pistol to blast before you can begin. The problem 
 is that there are no audio or visual indicators to tell you when the gun will fire. You have to 
 keep count in your head, which means that you will often find yourself starting well after the 
 rest of the pack or suffering a disqualification for jumping too soon. Cycling has the honor of 
 being the worst of the included racing challenges. You have to rotate both analog sticks for more 
 than four consecutive minutes, a technique that is the polar opposite of fun.  

  However, these running events become too easy when using a keyboard. For some reason, rapidly tapping 
 two keys instead of buttons is much more effective, which means that you'll not only be able to 
 consistently place, but you'll also threaten world records without breaking a sweat. Nevertheless, 
 this advantage swings the other way in most other types of events, in which contortionist maneuvers 
 are required to hit all of the necessary keys. The controller discrepancies can cause a severe 
 imbalance when playing head-to-head against a friend; the victor is all but decided before the 
 starter gun fires.  

  Other sports have their real-life depth completely stripped away and replaced with a mediocre rhythm 
 game. Most of the gymnastics program suffers from this insultingly simple mechanic, making it not 
 only far too easy for anyone familiar with the genre, but extremely repetitive as well. There are 
 only three different routines (easy, medium, and hard) , so there is little reason to partake in 
 these endeavors for more than a couple of times. The high jump is a mirror image of the floor exercise, 
 which shows how ill-advised this control scheme is. The diving events ask you to spin the analog 
 sticks to match the balls circling your diver. This is extremely tedious and in no way captures 
 the extreme focus needed by real-life competitors. These shallow excursions are so distant from 
 the real thing that it's almost laughable.  

  Even the tutorial is a failure in Beijing 2008. The rules of judo are never explained, so you'll 
 have to figure out on your own what terms such as "yuko" and "ippon" mean. Not that it matters 
 much; you'll only be matching directional arrows most of the time. The skeet shooting tutorial 
 tells you to pull the trigger to fire but never explains how to actually hit the clay pigeon. You'll 
 have to figure out on your own that you need to swing your gun while you fire and, unlike in real 
 life, you're not supposed to lead the target. The pathetic learning tools make these simple events 
 overly complicated.  

  There are some events that are utterly impossible even after you learn the necessary strategies 
 and level up your athlete. Kayaking is a cruel joke. You have no control over your tiny watercraft. 
 Even if you somehow manage to pass through the appropriate gate, the game often won't register 
 your success. Table tennis is just as pointless. Your giant body covers up an insanely high percentage 
 of the table, making it impossible to see the ball if it's coming directly at you. A higher camera 
 angle or a translucent character would have fixed this problem, but in its current form, it's painfully 
 bad.  

           Embarrassing.      

  For all of the gameplay faults in Beijing 2008, at least the graphics are fairly sharp. The athletes 
 are large, detailed, and animated well enough to make you believe for a moment that someone really 
 is floating backward down a river in real life. The pre- and postevent replays and posturing by 
 the competitors show off their fine detail, but the monotony of seeing the same canned animations 
 every time makes this superfluous eye candy another annoyance. Having to tap buttons during the 
 competitions is bad enough; doing it before and after every event to skip through the worthless 
 extras is just excruciating.  

  If you enjoy laughing at others' failures, there is a modicum of fun to be had in the multiplayer 
 mode. Either online or off, you can choose exactly which events you wish to compete in, but like 
 everything else in this game, this comes with its own drawbacks. The majority of these events are 
 turn-based, so you'll spend most of your time simply watching other people curse and fail. Plus, 
 the game isn't smart enough to ensure direct competition in one-on-one events. If you play two-player 
 table tennis, you'll each have to defeat a few computer-controlled opponents before you can square 
 off against one another.  

  Even if you're chomping at the bit to compete in these seldom-seen sports, you should still avoid 
 this game. There is not one event that offers a genuinely fun, rewarding experience. Beijing 2008 
 is horrendous regardless of how many people you're playing with or what event you're trying to 
 win.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ecno13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  The feeling-
  I loved n64's track and field. just something about that game, And This game brought back all those 
 memories. 
  
  The game-
  Although some events seem easier/harder than others and a few are boring. The game it self is extremely 
 fun if you know what to expect, and you take a few minutes just to figure out the controls on the 
 keyboard.
  Also the game supports full online fun. The only issue I see is people using button scripts/turbo 
 controllers to gain an advantage on you.
  
  The complaint-
  The only real issue I ran into was a few events (And I mean a few not the entire game like most 
 people claim) called for dual analog *the keyboard does not have those :O * So for those events 
 I sadly am not able to compete (if I do not have my 360controller plugged in) .
  
  
  The conclusion-
  If you like a challenge and the old school Track n Field style of game play. 
 This game is for you. If you easily give up on games expecting everything to be simple and a cake 
 walk, maybe this is not a title you would spend your money on. I enjoy the mechanics of the game 
 so its a "Guilty Pleasure"
  
  The verdict-
  So overall Visual look extremely sharp id say 8/10.
  Game play with 360 controller 8/10
  Game 
 play with keyboard 6.9/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aldzik89
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Bejing 2008 copies the mistakes of the previous edition in many places, mainly the steering system 
 is the problem - which comes down to pounding on your keyboard. It was supposed to be more tactical 
 and smooth, instead it came out like last time. The title is a typical reflex-agility game in which 
 quick fingers are most important. 
  
  One of the main good qualities of the game is a nice and clearly built main menu. It was constructed 
 based on classified markers. The navigation is very easy, which is very important considering you 
 have over 35 sport disciplines to choose from. The main bookmarks are Training, Competition and 
 Olympic Games. In the mean time its good to notice how the disciplines are divided, which again 
 eases the navigation. You can choose the track, six types of running, stadium and things like that. 
 Before each training there is a possibility to learn about the discipline. The game shows us there 
 how to steer your player. You can choose two alternative forms of steering depending on the discipline 
 you're playing. The basic are keys 'A' and 'B'. You can also block your speed. The perfect timing 
 is the key here. Example? For the swimming competition you need to really kill your 'A' and 'B' 
 keys. The faster you press one then the other the faster will the swimmers arms move. Speed blocking 
 is neccesery when you do a recurrence, doing it in a right time might save you some priceless seconds. 
 An additional hard part is the start. The player must control a special dial that symbolises the 
 readyness of the sportsman. You just have to hit one button all the time but in a right tempo. 
 If you overdose with the speed of pressing the button it will lead to a false start, which in many 
 disiplines means disqualification. Ofcourse depending on the discipline you are playing the system 
 is a little modified.
  
  All of the mechanics of the game maybe look good on the paper but in reality it has some serious 
 deal of weakness. Problematic is start system mentioned earlier. The player has to keep the arrow 
 as near to the ''red place'' as possible, and even after a long time of training our opponents 
 steered by the computer are faster and more accurate. Most of the time a late start is an impossible 
 thing to come back from.
  
  Another matter is banging your keyboard to death, which considers for example swimming and running. 
 I doubt there will be someone who after passing a distance of 1500 metres would not be completely 
 bored. Another example is judo - the player has not enough information about possible throws and 
 techniques. Besides, pressing on the enemy takes most of the time and when you finally manage to 
 take your opponent to the down floor you need to use a combination of keys. Great, but there is 
 no information about any combos and the manual says to ''experiment on your own!''. Great, like 
 I would not think of that myself. 
  
  Assuming that you have finished the training now and in some disciplines you got some good scores 
 you can now try and play a Competition. There you can choose only one discipline from the whole 
 pallet. In this mode you can play versus live enemies, making your own game or logging into a tourney 
 made by someone else (LAN) . You can also join to tourneys played on the internet after making an 
 account and logging on in GameSpy. One thing I do not understand is why the camera does not have 
 an option of spectating other players. You can only observe your own sportsman. Also the replays 
 are very poor, you can watch them only from one point of view.
  
  After a couple of tourneys it gets boring so the main thing is left - The Olympic Games. Here comes 
 the first serious flaw. To take part in any competition at all you firstly need to pass the qualifications 
 with a quite nice score. Its constructed so that the players has to start in four competitions 
 at once. Every day of the Olympic Games is the next pack of disciplines. Example? 9th of July 2008, 
 running 400m, swimming 50m, high jumps and archery. If you do not have all of the disciplines fairly 
 mastered and u fail some of them - the game ends. A very annoying and useless solution. In general 
 the system of the olympic games is based on points. After starting the game you get two thousand 
 of them (2000) and you can add them to your stats (something like in role playing games) which 
 are for example, precision, agility, strenght, speed etc. For every win you get awarded with some 
 points which you can add to make your results in later competitions better. All in all its not 
 a bad idea but considering that everything is anyways based on killing your keyboard (some of the 
 competitions are literally unplayable) it just gets very frustrating. You can listen to some nice 
 music in the menu, see some nice locations and great animations (winning gests, irritation, anger) .
 
  
  In short it looks good untill you dont bite into the details and start tripping because of bad 
 solutions or fall asleep during boring competitions. Its probably better to leave the game and 
 watch the original thing on television. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucky99luke
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 14, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  I would like to offer a review, but the game is unplayable without an XBOX 360 PC Controller, which 
 I dont own. I can play some events with the keyboard, but some events require the use of the left 
 and right sticks on the XBOX controller. I tried for hours to try and get my Logitech Rumblepad 
 2 to work with this game, but to no avail. I seriously wonder how such a large orginisation as 
 Sega could release such a poor game that only worked with one controller, I returned my game to 
 the store and swapped it for the PS3 version. ThePS3 version left me equally dissapointed, game 
 is too hard, boring and a controller destroyer.. Save your money and take your wife out to dinner, 
 you will derive way more benefit. Dont say I didn't warn you, this game is in contention for the 
 worst game of all time, for this, it will surely take the gold medal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asestar
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 12, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Normally expectations arent that high from games that are focused on events like these. 
  Its not easy either to make a game of this type as there is just so many grounds to cover and the 
 design/gameplay/control scheme has to fit each event. Also most of the time game developers are 
 after a quick buck.
  
  The last seems to be the case here. Having a game to go on shelves along with 2008 olympics is 
 an opportunity to make a game that could cash in money. What u need is pretty graphics and detailed 
 courses so that it looks great on tv ads and demo screens. Mission accomplished. 
  
  To actually play this game is a complete different story. Game tries to make every event a challenge 
 by coming up with new control scheme that is original and "inspired by real sport". It never occured 
 to anyone in the programming or testing team that their ideas were totally unplayable. 
  
  Now what they COULD have done instead was to make u do the managing tasks, instead of giving direct 
 control over athletes. With different commands like Push, hold position, back off and some status 
 bars that react to each situation. Involving more strategy than zombie-button-mashing.
  
  Right now, its a good showpiece. A better option is to just turn on the tv. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryujin81
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 10, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are really nice, although more graphics options wouldn't have hurt. The number of 
 sports is good, and number of countries represented decent. Well now that we have gotten past the 
 first 5 seconds of the game, let's get down to the painfully stupid truth, the gameplay. Half of 
 the sports I found absolutely impossible to play with the controls I had (keyboard or a Playstationish 
 control) . The rotating arrows thingy in the dive, WTF, Judo...... uhmmmmmmm, well....... I couldn't 
 even get my athlete to run, tried every button mashing technique I could think of and then some, 
 and he still just jogged (took me quite a while to figure out which of my buttons did what to begin 
 with, and playing only with a keyboard seems impossible) .
  Gymnastics was ok, at least I managed to get good scores in that, but was very monotonous and quickly 
 got quite boring, especially as there was absolutely no change in what the athlete did whether 
 I got a "perfect" ever time, or went to the bathroom.
  I did actually like the archery game, but that alone isn't really worth all the space this game 
 is hogging on my harddrive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albertofilgueir
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 9, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  Every 4 years one big company is chosen to make a Olympic Game. This time SEGA came with this responsibility. 
 This kind of game isn't the focus of any game company and always means that you'll play lots of 
 silly mini-games while the athlete on the screen does every move that doesn't match with what you 
 are doing in joypad or keyboard. Well, Beijing 2008 isn't different. Lots of mini-games, but SEGA 
 wanted to innovate on them and that was the major problem.
  The game-play is strange and based only on Microsoft-Xbox button patterns on the joy-pad. So you'll 
 have to match buttons in the right time on every competition. If it's just supposed to be fun, 
 I think it would be better to combine sequences, but easily. In Beijing 2008 you have to rotate 
 the analogics following arrows and little balls in insane and crazy movements. Equilibrating the 
 athletes using the same idea with the analogics again! And everything is just so hard, cause you 
 can't set the analogics sensibility, there's no option of different difficulties and the CPUs results 
 are every-time near the World Record. Other problem is that if you miss some sequences, the athlete 
 does the same movement that he would do if you do it right. The athlete rarely falls and it makes 
 your experience really confuse between your awful mistakes and the nice movements that your athlete 
 executes. Actually i've discovered in this game that Kenya and Ethiopia are the strongest olympic-potences 
 in the world!!! There are so many problems in the game-play that I could spend more than 5 pages 
 writing about it. But I'll just say to avoid the Judo!
  There's good sides in Beijing 2008: the graphics are nice, almost the same of Virtual Tennis 3 
 from SEGA. You can customize your athletes on every competition and you have 38 different kinds 
 of competitions making it a potential game and something that could be explored in the future.
 
  Overall, the SEGA's Beijing 2008 has a nice visual, lots of options for competitions ans customization. 
 But the most important thing on a game: its game-play, is so hard that lacks fun and compromises 
 all the experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snobas
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 8, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Pretty much nothing
  
  The Bad:
  Needs Xbox 360 pad, too difficult, not realistic, only 35 countries and major suckage : (
  
 
  This game goes over the top with it's stupidness, i mean, how such a big developer like SEGA have 
 made this piece of doo doo! I cannot believe how bad this game is, it puts olympic games to a shame! 
 I think that E. T. is even better than this piece of crap! I rented it and unistalled it after 30 
 mins of gameplay! Can you believe that!
  
  You know Angry Video Game Nerd right?, well he should review this game, it's so bad i cannot believe 
 it, damn! If you dare to play it, download it, don't buy it or rent it just download it, this kakadookee 
 will take 4GB of your hard drive space! I bet you will unistall it after 10 minutes.
  
  So, i'd rather watch Meet the Spartans for 3 consecutive times without break than play this crap!
 
  
  Verdict - 1/10
  STAY AWAY FROM THIS GAME!!! I'M BEGGING YOU!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
