-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bejeweled 2 Deluxe
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/bejeweled2deluxe/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Easy to learn.
 Incredibly addictive.
 New modes add replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 New modes add replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 25, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 7.7, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 345 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: PopCap
Genre: Matching Puzzle
Date:     2004 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Bejeweled 2 takes an already-solid puzzle game and adds more modes and sharper graphics to make 
 an addictive game even more so. Consider yourself warned. 

  Bejeweled 2 Deluxe, simply put, is a game you must play if you're a fan of puzzle games. If you've 
 ever spent any time with the original Bejeweled, you'd know that there's something about the game 
 that makes you want to keep playing for hours on end. In this sequel, you've got the same great 
 puzzle action that makes the hours pass like minutes, but this time you've got several new modes, 
 sharper graphics and special effects, and a few twists to the original formula that make it even 
 better than the original.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: cameronrules36
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2009 12:29 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  -Amazing graphics, sound, and music in backgrounds, the actual puzzles you have to solve, and the 
 loading screens
  -A few different modes which are all very fun to play, in diluted amounts
  
  The Bad:
  -The overall standard of it's gameplay makes it quite lackluster
  
  When I 
 first turned on Bejeweled 2 Deluxe I was utterly amazed at it, in terms of graphics and sound. 
 The graphics used are breathtaking, and are in no way painful at looking at.
  
  Bejeweled 2 contains 4 different gameplay modes: Classic, Action (Haven't figured out the differenece 
 between this and Classic, except there is a substantial score difference) , Puzzle (Solve a puzzle) , 
 and endless. These are pretty much the same as the same modes from other puzzle games, but they 
 are still amazingly fun to play.
  
  The few bad things about Bejeweled 2: Deluxe are mainly that the loading times are cool visually, 
 but they are long, and the gameplay is kind of lackluster. Other than that, Bejeweled 2 is a fairly 
 awesome game.
  
  Overall, 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Deepblue
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 10:28 pm PT
Review:  The version of Bejeweled 2: Deluxe that I bought came bundled with the full version of the game 
 Peggle as well. I am not sure if every Bejeweled 2: Deluxe comes with Peggle. Just thought I would 
 point that out. 
  
  Puzzle games never have to be complicated to be a lot of fun. Tetris was a bunch of blocks, yet 
 it helped launch Nintendo's Gameboy into stardom selling over 10 million copies. To this day Nintendo 
 is still the leader in the hand held market. A successful puzzle game is one that is easy to jump 
 into and get hooked on right away. Bejeweled is one of those puzzle games that is easy to get into 
 and very hard to quit once you start playing. The object of the game is to align at least three 
 jewels of the same color vertically or horizontally in line with one another. By doing so you eliminate 
 those three jewels and allow more jewels to drop down on the puzzle screen. By lining up at least 
 four jewels in a row you can create a jewel that causes an explosion that wipes out several jewels 
 around it, including the ones of its same color that it was re-aligned with. Lining up five jewels 
 of the same color creates a jewel that allows you to move it to a jewel of any color and it will 
 destroy all the jewels on screen of that color. There are four different game modes in Bejeweled. 
 In Classic Mode you play until you have no more possible moves. The more points you score and the 
 higher level you play on, the more difficult it is to align jewels and also assure yourself with 
 a move on the next turn. Time mode is where you race against the clock. Aligning and eliminating 
 jewels buys more time, but time ticks away faster as the game moves on. When time runs out.... you 
 lose... of course. Endless mode is set up where the game doesn't end. So you can blow up jewels 
 and work on your Bejeweled puzzle skills that way. The Puzzle mode is the mode that is a little 
 different than the other ones. Each stage has a series of puzzles all in which you must move the 
 jewels to certain spots to solve them. This gets tricky very quickly and is probably the most challenging 
 of the game modes. 
  
  Peggle is the other game that was bundled with Bejeweled, and I think it may actually be the better 
 game in my personal opinion. Peggle is kinda like that game on the Price is Right called "Plinko." 
 The one where the contestants drop down their chips and hope it lands in the $10,000 dollar slot. 
 Peggle is much more exciting however. You get to shoot the balls using a cannon. Th goal is to 
 shoot all of the orange balls on the screen. There are a bunch of blue balls that accompany the 
 few orange balls. The goal is to hit the orange balls within a number of shots. The blue balls 
 are there to be more of a shield, but hitting them does give you points. There are also green color 
 balls. They do something different for each stage. They're more of a treat to help you when you 
 need it. Each new stage features a new goofy looking animal who plays as the "guide" of the stage. 
 Each stage has a unique twist that makes that particular stage different, so the game manages to 
 stay fresh and sun throughout.
  
  You got two incredibly addictive puzzle games. Graphically and sound wise these two games are very 
 sharp. I mean.... there's obviously not going to be much to look at. Puzzle games consist of shapes 
 and..... that's just about it. But Pop Cap produce some great great PC puzzle games, and their production 
 from a budget title stand point is top notch in my opinion. What really counts is that both of 
 these games are extremely simple and fun. Which is what a good puzzle game should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sensatious
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those gems of casual games, a shining pinnacle of replayability and game craftsmanship. 
 PopCap's sequel to one of the most addictive and acclaimed casual game ever follows the old recipe 
 and only further improves it with more game modes (some of which are hidden) , easy-on-the-eye improved 
 graphics and an impressive soundtrack. The best way to describe Bejeweled 2 might be: if you walked 
 into a confectionery shop eager to get a good bite, Peggle and Puzzle Quest would be extravagant 
 new cakes that go down your throat with an explosion of taste and the first time you try one such 
 a sweet, you love it; after a while though, you WILL find yourself coming back to the old, proven 
 specialty of the house, Bejeweled 2. 
  
  To go a bit further into the details, I'll start with the main menu. You are greeted by a slightly 
 metallic, retro-futuristic male robot voice. It will also comment on your moves in the actual game 
 adding an occasional "Excellent", "Incredible" etc. - overall a very cool addition, not too intrusive. 
 In the main menu, apart from the obligatory options, help and stuff, you will (at first) see four 
 game modes: Classic, Action, Puzzle and Endless. I won't go into describing each mode too much 
 as I'm sure you've probably either read about them already or can guess what each one should represent. 
 What I shall say however, is that each and every one of them IS fun in it's own way and although 
 you might find one or the other a tad difficult or maybe even boring at first, once you get the 
 hang of the game that will be a thing of the past and you'll be dying to get a new highscore in 
 each one. Another thing that charmed me about this game was the quality retro font you are used 
 to seeing in old movies like "Superman"; it goes really well with the soothing backdrop images 
 of space and planets that change with each level (well, there are about 17 actually, then they 
 repeat) . While there /is/ an option called 'Random backdrops' for those who are impatient, I strongly 
 recommend trying to "unlock and see" the new backdrops by progressing through levels. Trust me, 
 the satisfaction in finally reaching a new level and seeing a beautiful planet landscape in the 
 background is immense. Let's move on to the soundtrack. There are several high quality themes, 
 diverse enough not to get you bored. Everyone is bound to enjoy and get to love at least one of 
 those tracks, and I can say that after 20+ hours of playing I am still not sick of the music, only 
 perhaps not as exhillerated as I was at first. The graphics is beautiful; I honestly think that 
 no matter how much the technology progresses no one can find those sparkling gems ugly in any way 
 - it's what you would call timeless. And now for the gameplay itself...
  
  Bejeweled 2 is a /challenging/ game. Not frustrating, not unbeatable, but definitely a tough nut 
 to crack. Don't despair if you find yourself looking at the dreadful "No More Moves" or "Time Up" 
 message every so often (I did too) . Though there are some strategies and hints that could help 
 you, the key is practice. I liked how I found myself enjoying the game more and more as I got noticeably 
 better at planning moves and feeling my own skill improve. There's much less of a luck factor involves 
 than it may appear to you at a first glance. Another incredible feeling I got was that the game 
 seems to be "helping" you if you make the right moves, you just need to take your time. Of course, 
 sometimes it's all about the luck.
  
  There is plenty to Bejeweled 2 to keep you coming back to it. There are 5 hidden game modes (I've 
 managed to unlock one so far and I love it) , all somehow related to reaching a certain level (or 
 perhaps a score) in the original four game modes. Furthermore, in the bottom of the highscore table 
 you can reach via main menu and in the end of every game you will be awarded with a rank (overall 
 rank in the case of the score table in the main menu) and a stat reading. I don't know exactly 
 how many ranks there are, but they all sound interesting (Master Bezelier for example) . Even so, 
 just a relaxing game of gem-swapping every once in a while is a reason enough never to uninstall 
 Bejeweled 2. 
  
  Truly a good bang for the buck, the only thing I could see as a potential repelling factor to new 
 players is the game difficulty - though if you look at it the right way - that very thing is the 
 key to huge replayability this game has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marktsy
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a most unusual game. I first found it on-line, loved it, and bought it, and am still loving 
 it. first of all it works on anything from a obsolete PC, to a high end Vista PC. The graphics 
 in this game are very cool to say the least. amazing backrounds and some 3D graphics but they can 
 be turned on or off, it is extremely easy and addictive, only hard thing is some in puzzle mode, 
 but you can easily cheat, and another thing, if you have the CD, it doubles up as a music CD, oh 
 oh the sound in the game is pretty good but not excellent, and to finish i'll say that the CD also 
 has some trials of other games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowGroudon20
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Why are the scores so low? Bejeweled 2 Deluxe has stunning graphics that really catches the eye 
 of a person who adores blissful planets. This game is very soothing in endless mode, I have made 
 it to level 69 or higher. They give you four options of difficulty to choose from like puzzle, 
 action, cognito, endless, you name it. The difficulties are incredible but it does not overwhelm 
 the game play. The music is soothing as if you are being taken to a transcendent paradise or something 
 related to the topic; but therefore it is rather calm and cool. There are 17 different planets 
 to explore, like Level 9 (red planet) is my ultimate favorite. I play all of the different features 
 a lot. The addiction to this game draws you into playing it endlessly and never being able to stop. 
 You will never get bored playing it, (though some do) ; my main point is that a person should be 
 able to know what their likes and dislikes are. There are not many people who agree with me but 
 I respect their opinions. Download a trial version on Pogo or Popcap. com before purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 31, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  Bejeweled 2 improves vastly from the first in numberous ways.. from different modes of play to 
 improved graphics and music/sound.
  
  Gameplay: easy to pick up and play. The added bonuses makes Bejeweled more fun with the 4 jewel 
 lineup making a powered jewel, and a 5 lineup making a nice weird blob that kills any colored jewel 
 swapped with it. If you have played the first, you know there is a point increase sure.. but nothing 
 more than that. Bejeweled 2 makes that more of a need than just an added point bonus. Sound: improved 
 greatly from the first game. Even a level completion is more satisfying due to increased sound 
 effects, and the music is just stellar and more vivid than in the first game.
  
  Value: lets see.. non-ending game.. with modes of play.. = endless replay value.
  
  Tilt: a 
 superb game.. 10 straight up.
  
  This game even works extremely well via STEAM :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerza
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  Bejeweled 2 Deluxe Edition is Popcap Games sequel to the hit puzzle game Bejeweled. If you have 
 played Bejeweled you will immediately feel at home here since everything is really the same in 
 this game as it was in the original. The only exceptions being that the graphics have been touched 
 up to modern standards with 3D gems and gorgeous CGI planet backdrops. Some new game modes have 
 been added as well.
  
  For those who havent played Bejeweled before, the object of the game is to collect sets of 3, 
 4, or 5 of the various jewels in the game. You can do this by either aligning them horizontally 
 or vertically, or in an L shape if the opportunity arises. The jewels come in all different shapes 
 and colors, and drop down from the top of the screen in random sets of three. You collect the jewels 
 by lining them up with 2, 3, or 4 others of the same shape and color, which creates a set of 3, 
 4, or 5 respectively. Doing this destroys them, earning you points, and creates the appropriate 
 power gem if applicable to your set. More random jewels will drop down to fill gap (s) you have 
 created as well. Its incredibly addicting, and you keep doing it until either the timer runs out, 
 or there are no more moves available to make a set depending on what your game type is. Power jewels 
 are created by aligning four or five of the same type of jewel, act as sort of a power up giving 
 you more points, and come in two sizes. If you can make a set of four jewels of the same shape 
 and color you will get a Cluster Buster. These are extra shiny Jewels and work like bombs, detonating 
 when placed in a set of the same type of jewels, and destroying everything around them earning 
 you a lot of extra points. If you have two Cluster Busters next to each other and set one of them 
 off, then both will blow up even if they arent representative of the same type of jewel. This 
 can create sort of a domino effect as you chain explosions together for even more points, jewels, 
 and largely is how you advance at the higher levels. The second type of power jewel is called a 
 Galaxy Buster. You get one of these when you manage to combine five gems of the same shape and 
 color in either a horizontal or vertical line, which is not easy to do. They count as a set in 
 themselves. This is because when you swap them with another gem, they explode and take out all 
 of the other gems on the board that are the same type as the one you swapped you it with. Needless 
 to say they operate as sort of a free bee and are essential at the higher levels.
  
  There are five game types available in Bejeweled 2 Deluxe Edition, four of which are available 
 to you as soon as you install the game. The game modes are: classic, which is the original game 
 with touched up graphics. Endless, which is a game that never ends since the game is constantly 
 give you the jewels you need where you need them for combos, Puzzle, which is a mode that will 
 take you around the games universe solving different puzzles with the jewels. Puzzle also acts 
 sort of like the games story mode since it has an end and rewards with you with congratulations 
 and the games credits. Then there is Action. This is a variant of Endless; however, unlike endless 
 you are timed. How little time you have left is marked by how little of your progress bar to the 
 next level remains, and how much time you have to complete the stage over all is shown by how rapidly 
 the bar drops back from points you have accumulated to toward zero. Collecting Jewels in this mode 
 will add time to the clock, and you will constantly be fighting said clock trying to get your progress 
 bar up to 100 so you can advance to the next level. The fifth game mode is Twilight. It is un-lockable 
 and becomes available to you once you have reached 200,000 points, or level 20 in Classic mode. 
 When you unlock Twilight you will see a little popup appear at the bottom of your screen that looks 
 sort of like those achievement notices in the Xbox 360 and Windows Live games. To access Twilight 
 you just click on the question mark between puzzle and endless in the games lobby and you will 
 Twilight appear where Classic used to be. In a nut shell, Twilight is a new version of Classic 
 with some added twists. For starters, everything is darker, moves in slow motion, and your new 
 random jewels come in from the bottom, as well as the top, when you make a set. This makes it considerably 
 harder to set up your jewels for Power Gems, combo chains and so on. It also takes twice as long 
 to level, making advancement a real challenge.
  
  The games sound track features a variety of soothing ambient tones, which seem to fit the game 
 perfectly, and definitely suck you in. You will hear every ambiance from galactic cruising music 
 to stealthy spy music to serious thinking music, such as from Who Wants to be a Millionaire. 
 Its a wide range no doubt, but it has all been juxtaposed into one half hour audio track and sounds 
 great. The only thing that is not so great is that when it finishes it just loops back to the beginning. 
 However, its doubtful that this will be a problem for most players since most arent likely to 
 have a game go that long anyway.
  
  There are some other changes that fans of the original may count as weaknesses. First and foremost 
 is the tunnel effect that appears once you complete a level. Unlike in the original where you simply 
 finished a level and kept going, in Bejeweled 2 when you finish a level that is it. You are taken 
 to the next level, which has a different backdrop, and all the same gems that you had at the end 
 of the last level; however, all of those gems have been rearranged from how you had them before. 
 This is a good and bad thing on all accounts. Its good because it makes the game easier since 
 you dont have to carefully think every move through so that you dont screw yourself over down 
 the line with a bad move you made three levels ago. However, at the same time it removes a lot 
 of the challenge that was present in the original game, and can make setting up a chain, cluster 
 buster, or galaxy buster much more difficult, especially at the early levels, which is where you 
 got all your steam from in the original.
  
  Another downside to Bejeweled 2 is that it only appears to be random. The formulas that govern 
 each of the different game types are pretty basic. If you are good at math you should be able to 
 figure them out very quickly. If you arent good at math you should be able to figure them out 
 after youve spent enough time with the game. However, once you have figured out the formulas, 
 Bejeweled 2 looses practically all of its challenge, and as a result, most of its appeal.
  
  The new game types are a nice addition, but are pretty shallow and easy compared to the original 
 classic mode. For this reason they really dont give the game a lot of lasting appeal or replay 
 value. You arent liable to spend nearly as much of your time in them as you are in the original 
 Classic mode. Even Twilight, which is a great addition, but much too difficult to unlock for its 
 own good, falls short. This is because while its very challenging and horribly disorienting at 
 first, if you manage to figure out how to get far enough to unlock it, you will quickly figure 
 out how it works. This is because adding new jewels from more than one direction mixes things up 
 more and keeps the board fresh, allowing for many more matches and combos than was previously present. 
 The final complaint with Bejeweled 2 is that it takes so many points to level at the higher levels 
 that the standard alignment methods simply dont work. The only way to level in a reasonable manner 
 is by keeping a few Galaxy Busters on hand and set up combo chains with cluster busters for big 
 points and a constant large influx of new gems. Now, mix that with the constantly shrinking timer 
 of the Action mode and you get to a point where the game practically kills you off. It really goes 
 without saying that this ruins the enjoyment and challenge of that game type.
  
  If all of this sounds complicated to you dont be intimidated, because its not. Bejeweled 2 is 
 one of the simplest puzzlers out there, as well as one of the most addicting and enjoyable. Bejeweled 
 2 has all the fun and addicting qualities the original had despite the complaints, and overall 
 is largely a better game thanks to the new graphics, bells and whistles. At $20 this game is a 
 steal considering how many hundreds, if not thousands, of hours it can easily keep you entertained. 
 If you are a hardcore puzzler, or just a casual player looking to kill some time then definitely 
 check out Bejeweled 2. If youre a fan of puzzle games in general, Bejeweled 2 is definitely something 
 you should have in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PETIKPO93
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, the future is here, and in order to get those valuables jewels, you have to beat puzzles 
 in Strategy, Trial, or Endless Mode. Bejeweled 2 has everything to pass a good time playing: pretty 
 cool graphics, relaxing music, and 4 game modes to select. The fun is concentred in the addiction 
 to it, so beware... What more can I say? Just play it, and you'll know what I'm talking about! 
 That's all what I can say (for now) , maybe I'll actualize this review someday... someday, surely 
 *laugh* Oh, I need 100 words for this review... I think it's fine now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyrick
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  For those who are huge fans of puzzles like Bubble and Tetris, this game would be great for you 
 if you have the time to play it. Otherwise for those who are weak willed and just simply looking 
 to waste some time away, then you might want to keep away from Bejeweled. This is simply because 
 it is highly addictive, and leaves one losing track of time.
  
  Those who have never played Bejeweled before may find the game meaningless. There is little strategy 
 in the game. Achieving high scores rely mostly on one's luck IMO. The background music is great 
 as well as the backgrounds. But it still lacks variety and various options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer11669
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Bejeweled 2 Delux is a wonderful game in my opinion. The graphics are mind blowing, along with 
 all the sounds. The music is cool too. From the puzzle mode to the standard modes, you're sure 
 to have fun with this game. It's so very awesome. And when you're wearing headphones while playing, 
 it's like you're in the game, because depending on where you click, it will only be in the left 
 or right side of the headphones. It's really cool. One of my favorite visual effects in the game 
 is the transitoin between levels. It looks like you're flying down a rainbow tunnel. It's really 
 cool. I think you should definatly check this one out! You'll be glad you did. It's worth the money. 
 Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aRcTiC_sTaR
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  As always, Popcap never fails to deliver a casual game that has high replay value. While such games 
 cannot fight against games by Blizzard, EA or such, these games are good alternatives to Solitaire 
 or Minesweeper, if you get what I mean. Expect nothing less from the seqel to the widely acclaimed 
 Bejeweled.
  
  Bejeweled 2 boasts of 4 addictive modes with relatively reasonable graphics and sound, considering 
 that the game takes up no more than 50 MB of system space. That is to say, don't expect cutting-edge 
 effects.
  
  The classic mode is the classic puzzle game, while the action mode has a timer added to it. Puzzle 
 mode requires a little thinking, as you have to clear every single jewel without having any remnants. 
 The endless mode is for people who never get bored of it, because as its name suggests, it's endless.
 
  
  It would be nice to see a multiplayer mode similar to that of Bust-A-Move. If you're pressed for 
 time, you can exit the game anytime and go back to it again later as it autosaves. Try the free 
 60-min demo if you've got the time. This is a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  This game is ridiculously addictive. Only when you want to beat someone. I bought this game for 
 my wife and ended up playing only to beat her score. From the first one that my wife had on her 
 phone, this games brings a great soundtrack to listen to while playing and a puzzle mode to make 
 your noggin think left when its right. My wife beat already but I still have work to do. Over all 
 this game has great graphics and for a quick game to pick up and put away. This one is it. Have 
 a great time blowing your mind on this one for a couple hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yinyang610
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  Bejeweled has always been a favorite of mine. This game, is definitely the most challenging, and 
 the most complex. You can make power gems, which literaly explode when they align with two other 
 gems of the same color. There are also hyper cubes that destroy all gems of the color that they 
 are swapped with. There are even rocks you must get rid of! There are also new moves such as moving 
 gems into empty spaces, and mega chain reactions! You haven't haven't experienced being bejeweled 
 until you have played bejeweled. But this version beats all the rest. This gem smashin, brain twistin 
 game for the computer is perfect for anyone who wants a challenge 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acdy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  This new Bejeweled Deluxe is alot better then the original that was released for PC a few years 
 back.
  It has a lot more to offer then the first one did.
  Not only now you can collect jewels but you can also use special Gem weapons to help you make your 
 playing experience and gross points even more exciting then the original did.
  There is even more modes in the game to explore that set the stage for a very good board game. 
 Strategy can also be included into this game because there is now a game mode where you have to 
 use your head to figure out what legal Gem matching is there in order for you to advanced to next 
 world.
  The music is brilliant and lasts for a pretty long time while you are in a game session, and the 
 sound is well done.
  Transition effects from board-to-board are also excellent and neat to see as the backdrops in every 
 level/world is also extremely well done seeing it like a real landscape, only you are viewing from 
 your screen.
  
  This game deserves an excellent rating because Bejeweled is one of the m ost popular games ever 
 made by PopCap and will even interests those who have not played it before and are looking for 
 great action board games to see and play. 
  This game can really reel you in the more you play it just like the other Bejeweled games do such 
 as the Network Multi-Player game for Mobile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterShake888
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 9, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  This game has some awesome features and graphics that are out of this world. The planets, the gems 
 and the sound really has improved alot, nevertheless to say without confrontation. I have played 
 several trial versions of this game... I want it so bad. Once you start the game and begin playing, 
 somewhat 15 or 20 minutes the music chances while you are still playing. I fancy the music, thoughtlessly 
 asking if this music were in the Techno category. I liked all the cool new parts of this game than 
 the 1st bejeweled game, you could not get any Hyper Cubes or even get four in a row. This game 
 is highly addictive and I would say, this is the best game I have ever played! The 3D images and 
 various features of the game is cool. I would say the graphics are great works of fine art. This 
 is the kind of game that would keep you occupied for so many hours and theoretically spaeking, 
 it challenges the mind. I love the puzzle and the endless modes. If you want a game that keeps 
 you busy, you should try this. I guarantee you that this is a fun game, one you have played this 
 you will keep coming back for more. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
