-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Beowulf
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/beowulfubisoft/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Your thanes love you.
 There's plenty of slow-mo bloodletting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 It's easy to get stuck.
 The combat is brainless.
 Following the story is a quest in itself.
 You'll find dead ends in every aspect of the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 4.4, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 362 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 13, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even a merry band of adventurous thanes can't save this quest from ruin. 

  "Even monsters have a mother," says the cursed Danish king in Ubisoft's new Beowulf: The Game. 
 But unlike monsters, video games have many mothers, and we don't mean just their dev teams. Take 
 Beowulf, for instance. With its ultraviolent combat, extravagant boss fights, hypermacho hero, 
 and cinematic, button-prompted beatdowns, this game of the movie of the poem borrows traits from 
 several great games of the past but fails to live up to any of them.  

  Beowulf is a third-person action game in which you stomp all over enemies and bosses as the buff, 
 angry, and eponymous Beowulf, while commanding your band of merry thanes via a small selection 
 of commands ("Get angry," "Come here," "Move that," "Stop moving that") . The stomping is cinematic 
 and grossly satisfying, albeit repetitive, and your thanes are great. But stronger than any of 
 these friends are foes of a design nature, and these issues lie in wait to completely sabotage 
 your quest and kill your will to adventure.  

           Kratos called; he wants his boss fight back.      

  The story is nonsense. You play 
 Beowulf, the strong, swimming, monster-slaying Nordic macho man dispatched to rid the Danes of 
 a marauding monster. After defeating Grendel, you're given a nifty dragon horn by the seemingly 
 mad Danish king, who then dispatches you to kill Grendel's mother. She seduces you into giving 
 her the horn (which, it turns out, is magical and must be used to feed Denmark) , and all of a sudden 
 you're the Danish king, and your kingdom is in the exact same position it was in before you arrived. 
 Grendel's mother has you where it hurts, and everything is going to heck as barbarians, monkey 
 men, rival thanes, and cultists run wild across your land. Your job is to kill everyone bad, and 
 somehow not be seduced by Grendel's mother, who humps your leg and bites your neck whenever she 
 sees you.  

  The path seems straight enough. After all, the game is largely linear and only about six hours 
 long from beginning to end. But waiting for you in that short journey are design pitfalls you may 
 never escape from. One example is a puzzle that challenges you to use carnal rage (berserk mode) 
 to start fires, which in turn let you hunt the leader of a band of evil monkey men. If the connection 
 between rage, fire, and monkey men is lost on you, you are not alone. Unraveling that tangle is 
 one of the most frustrating challenges in the game, not for the tax it exacts on your mental faculties, 
 but for its utter lack of logic.  

  This case is just one outgrowth of a greater fungal network of confusion, weird mechanics, and 
 bad planning. Beowulf, in an effort to seem open ended, is full of branching paths whose avenues 
 lead to dead ends. Even worse, one trail will be blocked by a waist-high boulder that your mightiness 
 cannot scale, yet the only way forward will entail a 20-foot climb straight up a vertical surface. 
 Truly, Beowulf does not know his own strength, and neither does Ubisoft.  

  There are other such illusions at work, such as the "carnal" versus "heroic" scale system. Ostensibly, 
 this is a meter by which your legacy will be measured, but appearances can be deceiving. If you 
 rely heavily on carnal fury (a berserker mode in which you become invincible and do heavy damage) , 
 you'll gain currency that improves your berserker state, and the meter will slide toward carnal. 
 If you kill enemies with regular attacks, you'll gain currency that improves your henchmen, and 
 shifts the meter toward heroic. But there's no light or dark path, which this system seems to hint 
 at, and even worse, you can't always choose whether or not you want to be carnal or heroic. Against 
 virtually all the bosses, you have to enter carnal mode; it's the only way to hurt them.  

           Longtime fans of stabbing things will probably find something to like here.      

 
  If you dodge an enemy's strike, you'll be able to execute a cinematic power attack that can slay 
 nearly any foe in one shot  and heal you . The funny thing is that you don't actually have to dodge 
 an attack. You simply hit dodge followed by power strike, and Beowulf automatically executes the 
 super swing while moving toward the nearest enemy. Even better, Beowulf seems to be invulnerable 
 during both animations, so as long as you hammer on the dodge-and-attack sequence, you can cinematically 
 cleave and stomp your way through an unlimited number of barbarians, monkey men, or worshippers, 
 all while healing yourself and your allies. When you aren't mindlessly mashing buttons, you're 
 following button prompts to kill bosses, just like in God of War. Consequently, the only aspect 
 of Beowulf's combat model that isn't downright broken is cribbed from someone else's epic poem. 

  Except for one thing, or rather, thane. You see, any time you do anything remotely awesome, your 
 thanes (your Norse entourage) will cheer you on with shouts of "Wow, did you see that?", "Whoa, 
 look at Beowulf, he is so awesome!" and "My hero, look at him go! I am inspired!" Those aren't 
 their exact words, but the sentiments are the same. Likewise, every one of them will whoop and 
 holler every time you kick butt, and you average at least a butt kicked per second. As a result, 
 combat is a matter of you chopping people up and stomping on them in glorious slow motion, while 
 buckets of blood fly all over the screen, to an unending chorus of awe, affection, and gratitude. 
 There are definitely worse experiences in video games.  

  Furthermore, say that you find your path blocked by a boulder. Instead of just kicking it aside 
 yourself, you point at it and say "Move that boulder" via a simple command menu, and your thanes 
 all jump on it with calls of "Here I go," "I'm doing it!", and "I'm in position!" From there, you 
 can begin a rhythm game that causes Beowulf to dance, sing, and pump his fist while the thanes 
 heave, ho, and say things like "Yeah, here we go, we're doing it! Yeah!" So you aren't just a marauding 
 band of tough guys, you're an adventurous, Nordic a cappella group that solves problems with the 
 power of song, dance, and positive reinforcement -- Elite Beat Ancients.  

           Moving boulders with the power of... music?      

  As you might expect, the production 
 values are uneven. Most of the environments look good, with plenty of atmosphere and creepy set 
 pieces, and the cinematic violence certainly employs enough blood. But Beowulf executes the same 
 attacks over and over, and the guy himself isn't very cool-looking. His weird Viking ponytail looks 
 awful, and some of the other textures look last-generation. Both the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 
 versions run smoothly, without any noticeable jaggies, though the PC version was a different story. 
 Without antialiasing, the game looked gritty but ran fine. With antialiasing, it looked fine but 
 moved with caffeinated jerkiness. Otherwise, all three versions were effectively the same, with 
 simple controls, ridiculous challenges, and fun-loving thanes.  

  Beowulf: The Game, for all its considerable flaws, has some unique and fun content. And even though 
 your thanes aren't particularly capable, they're still oddly entertaining. So it's too bad that 
 the fun is so short-lived, and that the game itself is so poorly crafted. After just three hours 
 of Beowulf, you'll get stuck, have no idea what to do, and be ready to send it to sea on a pile 
 of burning sticks. Even if you do struggle through the game's obtuse obstacles, the rest of its 
 myriad problems will make you wish you'd spent your spoils on a longer, better voyage.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BLaZiNg_SPEED
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game is very frustrating and difficult. I spent over an hours or so killing a 
 sea serpant and couldn't, serpant never dies.
  The saving system is poor you gotto redo the first mission again, even if you've completed it first 
 time round!
  
  And until you cannot complete the mission it won't save because that's how the system of it was 
 made. Its not like you can save the game at any time you like. This is just annoying!
  
  And the other extremely annoying thing is that the xbox 360 controller for windows will continuely 
 vibrate you just can't disable the vibration. Therefore I am forced to unplug it.
  If I connect another gamepad the keyboard won't work it gets disabled therefore again your stuck 
 with no solution at all other then removing or disabling the pad!
  And it just makes you angry, you can't enjoy this game properly. I don't think anyone will enojy 
 it. At the begin it looks all cool but then you figure out what a terrible game this is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmfd341
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 10:50 am PT
Review:  Beowulf could be the PC's God Of War if Ubisoft Shanghai wasn't working on the development, together 
 with Ubisoft Tiwak, they screwed up a great story that could've turned into a great game. 
  
  Graphics can look good at times, sound lags the game so much, I thought it was a problem with 
 the files, but then I discovered that other people were having this issue, I had to slow down my 
 soundboard acceleration, so the game wouldn't lag so much, but shaders were also f****d up, they 
 were also lagging the game, I found a page on the internet where they showed how to fix this, I 
 had to delete the shaders, then patch the game, and now it lags only a lil' bit, but fixing is 
 boring.
  
  Combat is fun, but boss fights are boring, it's all the same thing , activate carnal fury, do something 
 with you super strenght, then do button press combos. 
  
  On the second boss fight, with Grendel, I remember a bug I had, after hitting the big monster with 
 a pilaster (which are infinite by the way) , I made my way to his back, but when i started the combo, 
 Beowulf was performing his movements on the air, Grendel was still suffering from my super strenght, 
 but I couldn't see Beowulf inflicting damage to him, because they were far away from each other.
 
  
  It ends up being repetitive, you kill one wave of enemies, then another one comes.
  
  Controlling your thanes is useful, and the songs you use to encourage them are good. Puzzles are 
 stupid.
  
  Beowulf ends up being a bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lallulalu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  I donno as to why there are so many negative reviews on beowulf.. Though there are some parts that 
 might seem tough like protectin relic, button sequence (for many) , thane boosting, final mission 
 etc, once u get the rhythm of it, u'll love it and want to do it again.. 
  
  Beowulf is a masterpeice with many attractions like carnal mode (in which beowulf can even use 
 pillars as weapon) , the heroic mode, legendary weapons, shadow weapons, thanes (who are totally 
 at ur service) innovative boss fights, trolls, barbarians etc.. These kinda games are never seen 
 these days as most tend to be reflections of modern weaponry and technology. All i would recommend 
 is to try this game with patience. Trust me, u'll love it.. I can still reminisce the kinda feelin 
 that i got when i finished the final mission and watched the last cutscene.. Frankly, loved it 
 to the core.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocky_balboa_07
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 1, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  fun game. BUT I NEED SAVE FILE.. NY1 HAVE IT?
  As i got suck at the DEMON'S TEMPEST chapter .. which is just episode 1. but looks like this game 
 has the potential to become one of my favorite action adventure.
  the action sequence wid da sea serpent {upto which i've played} is superb.. at least i've played 
 1 of the boss fights..
  so guyz dont go by da reviews.. if u people luv action adventure den.. u'll luv dis too.. if u've 
 seen da film den u can just live da film. as icant review more coz i've only played da prologue 
 part.. but i just luvd dat part . if u ppl can help me wid da save file n if i can cross da episode 
 1 part den surely i can review da full game widin 2 or 3 dayz..
  da moves of BEOWULF is so realistic.. dat u'll keep watching.. but der is plenty of bloodshed in 
 da film.. so itz a bit of gore
  cheerszz
  
  n plz if ny 1 hav da SAVE den give me.... i just cant wait 2 play it..
  if u want ny help frm 
 me den i'm open 2 it.. bt plz guyz help me wid dis,, plz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captain110
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  I really didn't think it would be as exciting as it turned out as the rating was poor for it but 
 Beowulf was a lovely mix of action, adventure, challenge, and a lot more. You will begin as a monster 
 slayer which is going to help the king but you make a big mistake by trusting the monster mother 
 and the story changes as you suddenly become the king. 
  The decision to be a Hero or a Monster -carnal fury or heroic modes- was a feature which made the 
 game more attracting. Your Thanes are another great part of the game. They are loyal and faithful 
 to you and although they were not as smart, you wouldn't make it without their help. The variety 
 of weapons was also great and the fighting forms was a pleasure.
  There was also some bads like the short game play or stupid bugs - like you cant go up or down 
 a rock while in carnal fury mode- but overall i really recommend this game if you have the free 
 time for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tufty_snyper
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the combat in this game as it was fun to play and visually looked good... but it got 
 old pretty quick. All you have to do to succeed in it was dodge, strike, dodge, strike and so on, 
 until all your enemies were slain. There was no real achievement to completing episodes or battles 
 apart from carnal and heroic coins which you spent to upgrade your thanes or make Beowulf's carnal 
 mode more effective. Even that seemed pointless because when I had maxed my "heroic" upgrades, 
 I was at the final boss and my thanes (the ones that benefit from heroic upgrades) were not part 
 of this battle. The whole game was too short, it comprises of 3 main parts. Part I is the intro 
 which is basically a tutorial where you race another character across a shoreline and then eventually 
 arrive in Denmark and fight "Grendal". Part II comprises of 2 battles of no real importance to 
 the storyline. And Part III is the final battle. This game took me less than a week to complete 
 playing about an hour or two a day. Any hardcore gamer could probably complete it in no time at 
 all. It could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Knight_Alex
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  For the record, I didn't finish the game. Nor could I have the stomach to, figuratively and literally. 
 The game was bad enough that I uninstalled the game from my massive hard drive and never though 
 twice of it again. I should have known it was going to be a let-down, much like the movie it was 
 made after, when I started it up for the first time.
  
  In all fairness, it is a multi-platform game, so directions will not be tailored very well for 
 your unique platform, which I expected, but the directions on screen were horrible. It took me 
 twenty minutes to get past the first monster, of which several people on the forums have had a 
 hard time with, especially figuring out the Carnal Fury aspect of the game. By the time I had actually 
 figured out how to defeat the monster I became aware of the tediousness of the fight and just went 
 through the motions. I'm surprised I didn't put it down then and there, after having frustrated 
 myself so much that I considered doing a quick uninstall, but I stuck with it. Why, I'm not sure. 
 Benefit of the doubt, perhaps. Shortly after this my stomach started to get nauseated so I ran 
 downstairs for some Tums and quit after a savepoint (damn checkpoints) for the night. This unsatisfying 
 adventure would continue for as long as I played this unworthy game.
  
  I got through a few more stages and fights, enough to understand the basics of the game, which 
 is more than enough to write this review. The main points that stuck with me are outlined below:
 
  
  Combat: Horrible. There is a lock-on mechanism but it's almost completely useless. I did it a few 
 times only to have my vision blocked and my health reduced so that other enemies could hack at 
 me from the sides and back. Not only that but the lock-on targeting system is only useful if you 
 are in possession of a shield, with which you can use to dodge your enemies and do a nice slicing 
 attack. This was even harder to figure out and time so I decided to just go for the "kill everything 
 that's moving" approach. This was hindered by the concept of breakable weapons (would a sword really 
 break that fast?! I don't think so) and the poor camera design. My hand would twitch, or move my 
 aim a little too far, and I'd be striking at still air, missing my target by feet. Hitting an opponent 
 was as tricky as engaging in the Carnal Fury making combat completely frustrating that if my stomach 
 didn't feel sick after twenty minutes, I would realize this game was a waste of my time and hit 
 the Esc button.
  
  Carnal Fury: A nice little gimmick that, in theory, makes your battles go by faster (yay!) but 
 it just creates more problems. Even when you are surrounded by enemies you still have your faithful 
 Thanes with you, battling it out with the "barbarians" that storm you from all angles. Thankfully, 
 when engaged with sword and shield, your attacks will not harm them at all, unless you get into 
 your rage. Once you enter this taste, everything is fair game. You hit a Thane or an enemy, makes 
 no difference, damage is done. Once you realize that you're hitting and hurting an ally it's too 
 late and your Thanes have lost their will to fight or are dead. Great. It might have worked it 
 the enemies weren't all crowded in.
  
  Level design: Useless. The designers went for a more open-ended approach, which is usually a good 
 idea, except here they made it completely linear at the same time. You can wonder around the forest 
 for a while, exploring the void nooks and crannies, only to find that you need to turn around to 
 advance the game. But where did you start? Where is forward? You just spent five minutes looking 
 for goodies in chests, which weren't there, only to be disoriented enough to know that you are 
 totally lost.
  
  Graphics: Yeah, they're good, and run great on my machine, except for the glitches. I'm fighting 
 Grendel in the early part of the game and, during the scene, I'm required to jump on his head and 
 smack his face. Alright, I do that. Beowulf, why are you sitting in the air when Grendel's head 
 is three feet to my left? You are floating and punching thin air. Do you realize that? You get 
 the point.
  
  Controls: The last annoying thing I can think of were the controls. Ignoring the poor camera movement 
 (which made me sick, a rare occurrence) , the controls were finicky. Throughout most of the game 
 you get prompts to mash one key or the other, which are harder to decipher on the keyboard. Hitting 
 said keys at the right time is hard enough with the low timeout counter (the time it takes for 
 the game to say you didn't hit the button fast enough) yet when you get to a boss battle, like 
 Grendel or the sea monster at the very first stage of the game, the only way to finish the boss 
 is to hit a sequence of keys which the game decides you need to hit even before the prompt comes 
 on screen. The only way I was able to defeat these bosses with the key combination was to memorize 
 the sequence and mash it after the last key was hit. If you try to go by the on screen prompts, 
 you will loose every time. Why, why is a game made like this, I'm not sure. The game wouldn't have 
 been that difficult if only they had made the controls easier to use!
  
  Of all these poor things there was just one interesting idea that wasn't so bad: the singing. A 
 nice idea to make a beat out of your keyboards, although the regular key combination problems stated 
 above make it difficult, but once you have the rhythm down it's an interesting reprieve from the 
 horribleness of a game adaptation of a simple movie. The voice acting does make the game nice to 
 listen to, other than that the game has nothing else going for it.
  
  If you really want to try out this game after seeing the movie I'd say check your bargain bin or 
 Ebay to buy it for less than $10. It's MSRP at the moment is $19.99 new so a used copy shouldn't 
 cost you more than $15. Even paying that much is going overboard, it's your call of course. Just 
 keep some Tums ready. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mahmoudscience
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  the combat style is good , brutal and the fury is awesome. but when it comes to saving this is 
 very stupid , and the difficulty and the length of each battle is called ARTIFICIAL STUPIDITY . 
 i hate the ubisoft 's idiocy when it comes to action adventure , why make them soooooo hard , i 
 think this is policy , to make the gamer suffer until hate the gaming and sell his pc .
  and about the stuttering i have x 1950 xt 512 vga card why it lags when i walk into water or any 
 area contain water , crysis by its legendary graphics didnot lag on my pc and this game did it 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mastercheif_665
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 9, 2007 2:48 am PT
Review:  beowulf.. a norse hero sets out to battle the temptation within him.. also features a golden angelina 
 jolie. u take control of the norse hero and just go killing badies. thats all and once u hav finished 
 the game u know nothing can match the might of GOD Of WAR.... there is a similar level to god of 
 war...
  were u battle a hydra beast. the controls seem difficult and the entire game seems like a let down.. wait 
 for a better viking game or try out othe rpgs like the witcher and two worlds.. dont waste money 
 on this. This just feels old and stupid (Who says old is gold)
  
  
  Mastercheif_665
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andre23
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 2, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  Dont buy it the game sucks. It wasnt well produced, sometimes the game accelerates or lags without 
 reason. The main character doent know how to speak, he screams all the time to prove he got balls. 
 They even copied the way kratos started god of war 1 and made you kill sea serpents lol.
  
  The mini games are boring and stupid making you getting frustrated really fast.
  
  Also the 
 story doesnt keep you interested to keep playing. I think I wont even watch the movie after this 
 one.
  
  I recomend playing God of War 1 and 2 or even Double Dragon instead of this game. You will have 
 much more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bakkoda24
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I'll give them credit on making a badass action game that has truth to it. But looking at the pictures 
 and watching the movies puts me in a place where I can almost see Kratos in Beowulf's position. 
 The storyline is exactly the same, starts out small, ends up big. Both GoW and Beowulf are hardcore, 
 gory, gritty, and compelling. They seem to have the same combat system, using a power-up (GoW Rage 
 of the Titans and Beowulf's Carnal Fury) that allows the player to go ballistic on the surrounding 
 monsters. But after worshiping God of War, I just can't see myself saying Beowulf is original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zademon
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  i can say i waited for the movie since i heard it will be produced. the same for the game here. 
 but when i got my hand on on the game i was disappointed. the game is looking good in graphics 
 but i think the engine is quite old. another bothering thing is the stupid hard key combination 
 you have to do. i mean its a good idea but its way to hard on some points. a good example is you 
 have to row the bout. you have to hold a certain key and then at some point to pres up or down. 
 i stood for over half on hour and still couldn't get somewhere. i have played a lot of games and 
 some skills at games i think i have so the unexperienced finger moving on the keyboard isn't the 
 problem. the story isn't at intense as i have hoped but the voice acting is wonderful. i hope that 
 i can find a way to overcome the hardness of the game so i could play it. it seems to have a big 
 potential and i warmly suggest the game for playing but those with little patience i would suggest 
 you skip it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gacmyver
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  Imo this game is OK, especially for a game made to capitalize on a big pr blockbuster movie.
  
  The game got nice graphics and some next-gen post filtering effects like motion blur and a 
 mild depth of field, but everything and everyone else than the main characters look like last-gen. 
 And surprisingly, the characters doesn't look like their movie counterparts! If you wanted to see 
 a nude Angelina Jolie, your hopes are unanswered (but Gendrel's mom still looks really hot, and 
 she even got her vagina textured properly) .
  
  Beowulf looks appropriately cool and hulky and heroic. His face got this "I'm looking deep into 
 the horizon" look, which is cool for any hulky male protagonists. The sound and music in the game 
 is okay, but more lines would have been appreciated. The voice-acting is good imo, and i even think 
 its from the movie cast (if so, it cant be bad) ?? The narrators voice sounds dead on like Anthony 
 Hopkins (because it is him i think?) ! But Gendrel's mum's voice doesn't sound anything like Jolie. 
 But Jolie is good at making her voice sound unfamiliar, so i don't know.
  
  The game is your typical action adventure game. You got light attack and heavy attacks. You can 
 chain together the light attacks and end them with heavy attacks if you want. You can also grab 
 stuff or enemies which starts a button mashing sequence similar to those of god of war. But in 
 a less creative way. Although for the full length of the game (which is about 5-6 hours which is 
 damn short) you'd wish you could have learnt more attacks or grabs.
  
  However the action is surprisingly satisfying. Your attacks are deadly brutal! Gore splat out on 
 every hit and especially on your heavy attacks when the enemy is lying on the ground. The animation 
 for these attacks are very satisfying to look at. And Beowulf's animation in general are quality 
 stuff. Most of the time it also slows down for a split second and you can see how careless Beowulf 
 is which seems appropriate, he is an uber brutal norse warrior who knows his stuff and does not 
 have moral issues about it (although this should be a bad point since it's actually how careless 
 the devs were in not even bothering to add facial expression to Beowulf, but they got lucky) .
 
  
  The moral issues come in as two opposite ways to lead your kingdom. Do you want to be a brutal 
 monster slayer, the mightiest warrior ever and have songs of your amazing deeds sung forever, but 
 loose the trust of your people? Or do you want to be the heroic king that cared for his people 
 and loved his thanes? Basically you have carnal fury which is the first option and not-carnal-fury 
 which is the second option. When in carnal fury mode, your screen goes red and you become like 
 a possessed man with un-human strength. You basically kill everything ten times faster. Unfortunately 
 since you are half-crazy slash desperate in this mode, you cant recognize your own kin and thus 
 you kill everything even your own thanes if you're not careful. By doing this you severely hurt 
 the morale of your men (whom of which you can have like 12+ with you) and they don't fight well 
 for you. They just stand around looking at you and shouting you to become sane again. And they 
 also get pwned by the mobs since they stand still.
  However, if you don't go into carnal fury and fight in your sane mode and do cool stuff like dodge 
 or finish up a combo or land a heavy attack your thanes will get a boost in their morale. And its 
 quite cool when they all yell every time you down an enemy! And you can give them a boost making 
 them un-killable for a small amount of time. Or when your heroic meter fills up, you can go into 
 heroic storm mode which makes a light shine on you and your men and you all become invincible for 
 an amount of time. And you all become much more effective at killing too. But when you're building 
 up the heroic meter and you get hit just once, it drops. So do you go instant carnal fury or slowly 
 build up your heroic meter?
  Another thing going for heroic kills rather than carnal kills is that you gimped yourself because 
 you cant use the powerful grabs! Grab kills count as carnal kills! And at the end of each fight 
 or episode the game sums up your kills to decide whether you are heroic king or monster slayer 
 (carnal fury) and your carnal fury kills weighs much heavier than your heroic king kills (which 
 is true, there's tons of kings but few legendary monster slayers) . So if you wanna go for the heroic 
 king title, you have to totally avoid carnal acts.
  Boss battles are okay, but not really good or anything. And the final boss battle is very dragged 
 meaning that you do the same thing for a very long time to win the fight.
  Also sometimes the game can get very frustrating, but that is either because you weren't clever 
 enough to see that there's some wall-climbing dots on the OTHER side or because you suck at fighting 
 the enemies. I played on normal and had maybe a total of 15-20 retries.
  
  Its also cool that sometimes your thanes come into conflicts with the enemy and they'll die if 
 you don't help them. And they sound so hopelessly lost without you, so it makes you feel important 
 and that your men are totally loyal to you. This is further confirmed when you do your morale boosting 
 sequences. You can use your men to do stuff for you like move boulders that is blocking a door 
 or open a gate or something. And once you assign them to the task you can open the thane boost 
 sequence in which you play a short not or a long note. The music on these sequences are the same 
 all the time, but sounds amazing nevertheless. And your thanes responds to them which is cool.
 
  
  The game doesn't, however, follow completely the story of its movie counterpart. Maybe it does, 
 but it is so badly stringed together that you wont understand anything if you haven't seen the 
 movie or read the poem. You almost don't understand why you do stuff and who the hell that guy 
 is and stuff like that. It also got a very very mild rpg element to it in that you can boost your 
 carnal fury skills or heroic king skills. but it doesn't seem to have an affect really. And worst, 
 you only get the opportunity to do it like two times in the game which is weird. And it also lets 
 you choose where to battle next, but almost all the time, there is only 1 option... wtf...
  
  When it comes to technical issues, i have not had any crashes at all with this game, it runs 
 pretty smooth, not the world smoothest game or anything but enough to pass. Controls are a bit 
 weird until you get used to it and the game doesn't do a good job at explaining which button is 
 which because instead of saying "press TAB to enter carnal fury" it says "press CARNAL FURY to 
 enter carnal fury"... again... wtf...
  I've had no glitches, sound is okay, no clipping as far as I'm concerned. but sometimes the weapons 
 looks like 2d sprites. It doesn't really matter if it did had clipping or whatever cause you aren't 
 gonna be let down by it since this game isn't the best game anyways and you probably wont care 
 too much. You just want to have some fun enjoying brutal action.
  
  Still you'd wish this game to be a lot better because it does do some right, but most wrong. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skidesigns
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  This game really does rise above the recent surge of games that were "all flash, no substance". 
 Yes, the game looks pretty (even though, as some have said, the graphics are somewhat outdated) , 
 but it does manage to draw you in. The battles really do feel epic, and there is more to the battles 
 than mere button-mashing. Troll fights are a lot more technical than barbarian fights, and require 
 you to time your sidesteps so that you may counterattack in a most favorable way. The enemies don't 
 stand idly by as you try to break a barbarian's arm and will attack you. However, your thanes do 
 feel a bit underpowered and tend to die off a bit fast. The game makers have a pretty good solution 
 for this, by having a spotlight at the end of each battle, which will revive all of your fallen 
 thanes.
  The story is not great, but consider that it is a game created for a Hollywood movie. Few of these 
 have ever had real success. I think that, considering the fact that even the movie was a Hollywood 
 rendition of a Viking myth, Beowulf manages to draw you in quite well. The battles feel great and 
 encouraging your thanes to row faster or push a door open, feels as satisfying (when you succeed) , 
 as well as disappointing (when you time yourself wrong) . 
  Given the standards of "Hollywood games", Beowulf is an epic and visceral experience, well worth 
 playing, even with its minor frustrations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThorViking
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  The first thing that is terribly missing is dismemberment. When will game makers stop worrying 
 about ratings and money, and realize that games are for grownups too. Some Severance: Blade Of Darkness-like 
 effects would sure look good in Beowulf.
  Once you get used to the keys the game is great. I sure hope that they will make some updates to 
 fix the bugs and fight control. If there was a key that would allow you to switch between enemies 
 while in defense mode a fight would be more spectacular and smooth. For a beginner player i think 
 that difficulty is hard. the problem is of course also that the game could be less linear and more 
 free. To conclude this game could get a score 8.5 if they put some work into the updates.
  Also the options (graphic) in the game are scarce. Graphic options especially need more options. 
 If you don't own the latest hardware you should be able to turn off water effect and such....
 
  I'm a general viking fan and there aren't enough games like this so i give this game 8.5, witch 
 with some updates that would be true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfk4eva
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  WOW! this is a good example of why they shouldn't make games based on the movie. Movies based on 
 games does good, but not the other way around. some of the enemies in this game, like the crabs 
 thats a childs game, then theres rowing the boat and singing OMG, this game should be rated C for 
 children the only thing that makes it mature is the blood. Some of the combos you have are fun 
 to do but there is no new ones you can unlock, its really easy to beat. Its the same thing over 
 and over each mission. Midway really did a bad job on this one. Im sorry i know games aren't easy 
 to make but compared to other games out this is horrible. Games like this should be priced at $20 
 dollars or less anymore then that is stealing your money. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
