-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Besieger
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/besieger/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 14, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 5.8, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 59 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Primal Software
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Jun 2, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Besieger tries to innovate in the crowded real-time strategy genre, but it's undermined by poor 
 artificial intelligence. 

  Besieger is a real-time strategy game about Konin, the barbarian king of Cimmeria who wields the 
 mythical sword of Krom. No, not Conan, Robert E. Howard's famous fictional barbarian from Cimmeria 
 who wields the mythical sword of Crom, but Konin. What's the difference? Quite honestly, we're 
 still not sure. Like Conan, Konin occupies a world that's equal parts ancient history and fantasy. 
 It's a game of Cimmerians and Vikings but also of centaurs and werebears. And it makes for an interesting 
 setting and a potentially interesting game. However, Besieger is bogged down by lackluster artificial 
 intelligence and poor pathfinding.  

          Viking airships can actually fly over defenses, but they're extremely vulnerable to ground 
 fire.     

  In Besieger, you'll command Viking and Cimmerian armies in a quest to stop a war started by Mara, 
 Konin's sister, who usurped his throne. Besieger takes an interesting tack with the game's two 
 campaigns. The two storylines basically overlap, so you start off playing the Vikings under Earl 
 Barmalay before moving on to Konin. It's a nice touch, because you get to see how events are interpreted 
 differently from both sides. You'll trek through various lands and underground settings in adventure-style 
 missions that require you to conserve the forces that you start off with, and you'll also have 
 traditional real-time strategy missions where your job is to build up a town and its economy. This 
 follows the usual model of resource gathering and base construction but adds an interesting twist. 
 In addition to gathering wood, stone, and iron, your most valuable resource is actually your population. 

  You can only recruit military units from the populace. So to create a spearman or an archer, you 
 have to select one of your workers and then train him by having him go through a certain building. 
 It's a good way of limiting the size of an army, because you can no longer amass a gigantic horde 
 to rush your enemy. You need to strike a balance between having enough workers to gather resources 
 while training enough workers to go to war. Still, there are a couple of annoyances with Besieger's 
 unit system. For instance, you can't upgrade a warrior to another type of unit directly. Instead, 
 you have to send the warrior back to the building that he originally trained at so that he can 
 become a worker again, and then you have to send the worker to a new building to receive different 
 training. And training a lot of warriors can take a long time.  

  In addition to the regular warrior units, you have access to various heroes in the game, and each 
 one exerts a command influence around him or her that boosts your troop's capabilities. Heroes 
 are your most valuable units, because they're so powerful. And because your units and heroes can 
 gain experience points and level up, they can become even more deadly -- almost ridiculously so. 
 Ghazimm the centaur, for example, is a high-speed killing machine who wields two blades and can 
 run down any opponent and shred him with ease. It gets to the point where you barely need an army, 
 because a handful of high-level heroes can decimate the opposition with relative ease.  

  Besieger takes its name from the fact that this is a game about the building up of and tearing 
 down of defenses, and in this, it feels like a tip of the hat to the classic real-time strategy 
 game Age of Empires II. In addition to all the traditional resource gathering and base building, 
 you have to devote a considerable amount of effort to building up layers of defensive walls and 
 towers to keep the enemy at bay. At the same time, you need to construct your own siege equipment 
 in preparation for your own offensive against enemy fortifications. In theory, it's a great dynamic 
 for a strategy game. When you're being besieged, you're forced to sortie your forces to disrupt 
 the enemy attack, and when you're besieging, you have to maintain pressure on the enemy's defenses 
 until a weakness erupts. Unfortunately, this is where Besieger's technical problems ruin a potentially 
 interesting game.  

  The game's biggest weakness is its artificial intelligence, which is lacking. The best that your 
 opponent can usually do is dispatch wave after the same wave of units at you, no matter how ineffectual 
 they are. The AI doesn't adjust tactics at all. Then there are the frustrating pathfinding issues. 
 Your gatherers constantly stumble into one another, causing traffic jams and slowdowns. Depending 
 on the layout of your base, they may run the long way around buildings because their pathfinding 
 won't allow them to pass through the narrow straights between buildings. When on the offensive, 
 half of your military units can't even get out of their own base properly, because they get trapped 
 behind their own walls. It's even worse when you try to rush your troops into a breach in the enemy's 
 defenses and the majority of your army fails to make it inside. You'll have to reload saved games 
 quite a bit to get it right.  

  The pathfinding problems in the single-player campaign also plague the multiplayer portion of the 
 game, making control of your units difficult, to say the least. However, unlike the single-player 
 campaign, in multiplayer you no longer have the luxury to reload to an earlier save if things go 
 bad. It's one thing to be outplayed, but it's another to lose due to pathfinding. One caveat: Besieger 
 lacks an in-game server browser capable of locating games on the Internet. You have to rely on 
 third-party server browser to locate an Internet game, but before you do that, you need to download 
 a patch to ensure that the game works properly with the server browser.  

  Besieger uses some pretty interesting technology. The graphics engine, which was developed by Primal 
 and is currently being used in the upcoming action role-playing game I of the Dragon, is capable 
 of rendering huge levels. The game also takes into account elevation. As a result, units running 
 uphill are slowed down considerably, while those running downhill have an advantage, which translates 
 into defensive bonuses if you can fortify the top of a hill. And everything is destructible in 
 the game, and the world itself is fully deformable, which means that it can be reshaped in real-time, 
 though there aren't many opportunities to see this in action. On the other hand, everything looks 
 a bit square and chunky up close. The terrain could also use higher-resolution textures, since 
 it looks a bit bland at times.  

          Cimmerian cavalry flee fire-breathing dragons that are in hot pursuit.     

  The game 
 has all the obligatory sound effects you'd probably expect if you've played an RTS lately, from 
 the banging of hammers when your workers construct a building to the little remarks that your warriors 
 utter when you select them (there's even a squishy noise when enemies explode) . It's all of fair 
 quality. The music and the voice acting are also adequate, though none of the audio stands out 
 as memorable.  

  In the end, Besieger comes off as a bit of a disappointment, because the siege warfare in the game 
 never really coalesces. You get the feeling that the game could have used a bit more time in development 
 to smooth out all the issues. As it is, Besieger tries to add some innovation to the tried-and-true 
 real-time strategy formula, but unfortunately, it falls short.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: xqmxqm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 4:55 am PT
Review:  This game was budget priced but is surprisingly good. Pretty graphics and sounds, well-paced campaign 
 and story (even the tutorial) , and innovative gameplay which puts more on building simulation than 
 massing army for quick kill-you have to build up everything bit by bit from scratch and everything 
 takes time and attention to function correctly. Yes this is to complex to be fit for intensive 
 man-to-man "sports" but does have its merits, and the ingame combats feel amazing. This game also 
 has good tactic elements for you can have your airforce (unlike most medieval rts) and transport 
 your troops through mountains unpassable on the ground. Hero system is not so successful because 
 when you have gained your heroes esp the satyr hero a high level you can save a whole army and 
 solely rely on these guys to pass a map, but this is forgivable for a budget game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdhas
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 14, 2004 2:13 pm PT
Review:  A surpise gem of intense action strategy. Besieger features a very capable engine that does a terrific 
 job of smoothly rendering large-scale battles on lush island landscapes. As is common in RTS games, 
 the story is told through in-engine cutscenes and progresses though a variety of "build a base 
 and destroy the other guy" and "keep X and Y units alive" levels. The sound effects are all fantastic, 
 but the music leaves something to be desired, as it is uninspiring and repetitive. I particularly 
 like how important your population cap can become in this game, as many of the buildings only function 
 with a worker unit in them -- meaning, watch towers will only attack if they are occupied with 
 a worker. This adds a great deal to the strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tabernac
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 9, 2004 10:40 am PT
Review:  At $29.99CAN, you can't go wrong! This game looks great. The basic premise is that the heroe's 
 evil sister takes over the land while he's away at some war. He comes back to find out that evrything 
 is on the fritz and he has to fight his way back. You could call this a Warcraft clone but a little 
 more realistic. In Besiegr you can take advantage of the terrain (high points, valleys, etc.) and 
 set up defenses. Flying machines are available, protective walls can be built, gates and bridges 
 can be placed. Generation of units is not ordered at a building. Instead workers are ordered to 
 enter special buildings (barracks, archery, etc.) and come out the other side fully trained and 
 equipped. They can be ordered to go back to worker status by doing the reverse operation. Every 
 piece of machinery (Towers, Cruisers, Rams, etc) requires a defined number of workers to operate 
 it, so generating equipment does not affect population numbers. You just have to have enough workers 
 to operate it. 5 workers are generated automatically by building a house. Upgrading houses generates 
 more workers. Best of all, no need to gather food. Battles are fast pace adn coll to watch using 
 the zooming in function. Overall, very entertaining game, good story, great value. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
