-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bet on Soldier: Blood Sport
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/betonsoldier/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Voice work is terrible, but at least it's usually bad in a funny way.
 Character models are technically proficient.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Tons of technical issues make this a chore to play.
 Even if you get past the bugs, the gameplay is dull and uninteresting.
 Sound effects are often annoying.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 12, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.1
Critic Score: 5.7, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 536 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Digital Jesters
Developer: Kylotonn
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Sep 26, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's buggy, it's ill-conceived, and it's even totally unplayable on some systems in its current 
 state. If you think Bet on Soldier is a recipe for a game worth skipping, you're exactly right. 
 

  Bet on Soldier is a sci-fi-themed first-person shooter that takes place in a crazy war-torn world 
 where the primary form of televised entertainment is one-on-one gladiatorial battles that break 
 out in the middle of an otherwise normal battle. While that might sound like just the sort of gameplay 
 and plot hook that might drag in all of you people waiting patiently for a game based on  The Running 
 Man , Bet on Soldier is a collection of half-baked ideas wrapped in a buggy mess of an engine, 
 and the end result is a very bad game, overall.  

          Who loves you and who do you love?     

  Each mission begins with a soldier loadout 
 screen where you can purchase weapons, various types of armor, and mercenaries to assist you along 
 the way. You'll also choose which champions you'd like to face in each mission. This is where the 
 whole Bet on Soldier concept comes into play. When you encounter these champions, the game breaks 
 into a cutscene that plays the intro of a TV show called  Bet on Soldier . These battles are treated 
 like a televised sport, but they boil down to your trying to win as quickly as possible to earn 
 more money. The solo battles are dull and fairly lifeless, plus they're jarring and intrude on 
 the rest of the game.  

  The rest of the game is all about keeping your armor in good working order. You can do this by 
 using conveniently placed reload and repair terminals, but this costs you money. Thankfully, you 
 earn cash for every kill, and unless you're horrible at shooting people in the head -- which is pretty 
 easy here since the artificial intelligence doesn't seem to understand the concept of finding good 
 cover -- you'll always have plenty of money to work with. Alternately, you can hire an engineer to 
 come with you. He can repair you at any time, but his light armor means you'll have to protect 
 him. Since the mercenary AI is only marginally smarter than the enemy AI, this isn't always easy. 
 We ran into several occasions when our backup got hung up on a wall and wouldn't proceed until 
 we ran back through half the level to get him unstuck.  

  Armor is more than just a number near your health bar. Bet on Soldier also gives you a large metal 
 riot shield, which you can put out in front of you when using a one-handed weapon. It slows you 
 down a bit, but considering you can just as easily get headshots with a pistol as with a scoped 
 rifle, the pistol is plenty powerful. Anyone with a steady hand should be able to nail headshots 
 from great distances, since the enemies tend to stand still when you aren't directly in front of 
 them.  

  In addition to its dreary, repetitive single-player game, Bet on Soldier has a multiplayer component 
 that attempts to bring the betting in by letting you place "bets" on your ability to take out specific 
 enemy soldiers. It's also a class-based mode that lets you upgrade through multiple levels by spending 
 money. Unfortunately, the combat itself isn't exciting, so all of this is fairly moot. Also, finding 
 more than one or two servers running at once is rare, so don't expect to find a great deal of online 
 competition.  

  While it's not a particularly compelling game even when it's running properly, Bet on Soldier is 
 also dragged down by a series of nasty technical issues that aren't fixed by the game's version 
 1.2 patch, including one that caused the game to crash to desktop every time we tried to start 
 a game, change the resolution, or do just about anything else. On a different but similarly outfitted 
 machine, the game ran without crashing, but it was prone to seizing up for seconds at a time. And 
 the long load times' static or black screens had us wondering if maybe the game had crashed anyway, 
 and then it would finally start up a minute or two later.  

          Killian!     

  Once it's up and running, Bet on Soldier does have some decent graphics. The player models are 
 at least technically impressive and it makes good use of lighting and shadow effects, even if the 
 design side of the game's visuals leave something to be desired. It's a proficient but bland-looking 
 game that never seems to run at a stable frame rate, even on a machine that well exceeds the recommended 
 system requirements. The speech in Bet on Soldier is a source of hilarious unintentional comedy. 
 Imagine a native French speaker learning English from someone with a British accent and then attempting 
 to sound like a hard-ass general from Texas. The constant accent shifts occur not only from sentence 
 to sentence, but even word to word in some cases. It's completely insane, and it's one of the few 
 compelling things about the game. Beyond that, the music is lackluster, and the basic sound effects 
 are pretty bad. The scraping metal sound that plays when you walk is supposed to invoke the sound 
 of a heavily armored trooper on the move. Instead it's just grating. You're also constantly panting 
 and wheezing like an asthmatic. Considering you're supposed to be a trained soldier and the best 
 of the best, carrying all that armor around shouldn't make you sound like you're constantly about 
 to collapse.  

  It's buggy, it's ill-conceived, and it's even totally unplayable on some systems in its current 
 state. If you think Bet on Soldier is a recipe for a game worth skipping, you're exactly right. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (29 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DarkFolle
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 21, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, mmm, the idea of this game was kinda cool, but it came out like the worst mix of play at 
 all. Playing at max difficulty isn't that shame, the only problems are the boss to face during 
 battles - and first this breaks the atmosphere a lot, second there's never a close save station 
 to save ur butt, and start again from there, third the intro that starts every boss-match is not 
 somewhat annoying, is something that u will HATE endlessly, because it takes out a lot of time, 
 and breaks the immersion of the game, and believe me if i say that u will see the same intro for 
 the same boss a looooot of time..-, they usually have some kind of strange shield and u can hit'em 
 only with acid nades... that most of the time they evade, until they get stuck in some place in 
 the battlefield, and believe me, this happens quite every 30 secs... Ah well not to say that there's 
 no ballistic in this game, not even a finger of it, the aimpoint collides with ur POV not with 
 the position of ur gun, so if ur gun stay behind a door, but if ur eyes see the enemy, u can shoot 
 and hit him without problems.. the guns are cool hwvr, and armors too. Oh and btw, to those that 
 say PATCH IT, well i tried but after that the game do not start anymore... AND I DON'T HAVE 300 
 BUCKS FOR A F__U__C__K__I__N' PHYS-X CARD.... but i will i hope someday... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Murphigans
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  Pros: Stable with the patches, Awesome multiplayer, Great story line, Cool Weapons, Believable.
 
  Cons: You rating this game terrible
  
  Its an amazing game, but people really need to open there eyes, and stop playing Barney!
  
 
  Its a phenomenal game really. I thinks its your terrible computers, even with out the patches 
 its not that buggy.
  
  Go play world of warcraft and leave the real games to the big boys.
  
  Oh? mommy canceled your 
 subscription, well just stick to your unrealistic CSS!
  
  But really, don't listen to any reviews giving it a low rating, i doubt they ever even played it. 
 So just try it. Dont knock it till you try it.
  This game was a hit in europe, why not here? Because your all to stuck up to realize, "Hey! my 
 computer cant play this right, time for an upgrade."
  
  Instead of "OMFG WTF IT DUN WORKZZ! Least I be has meh wow!"
  
  I mean really. Get it through 
 your thick, ape skull. And learn! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torq95
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  The game was meant to be set in an alternate reality in the year 1998 in which male mercs do all 
 the fighting to gain hard-earned "blood-money" ( or cold hard cash) to gain access to stronger 
 weapons and ammunition, as well as armor and/or shields. Sounds like good stuff, huh? There's more 
 to that, though. But by the second you boot it up, you'll experience the horrible truth that once 
 used to be known as the game, "Bet on Soldier: Blood Sport."
  This game's story felt like it was made by Uwe Boll himself! You play as Nolan Daneworth, a hero 
 struck with amnesia that used to be a former WRF  specialist 
 that entered the B. O. S tournament to get revenge for what the UAN did to his wife. The AI is ridiculously 
 limited: while enemies can take cover, they do little other than walk side-to-side and attack. 
 Want to see more about the terrible truth? The horrific voice-acting is made by Europeans trying 
 to mimic American accents with little-to-no success. That voice-acting is part of the problem: 
 the dialogue and text include lines such as "Direction, the main base!" and "Buy all Ammos."
  The weapons all look the same just with either more ammo, better accuracy or better stability. 
 You can have fun with this, though Kylotonn, the developer company, could've done a better job 
 with the guns, though.
  Multiplayer takes the credits system featured in B. O. S a la Counter-Strike. You can purchase weapons 
 and vehicles if you like, and can have fun with this, although you'll enjoy some better multiplayer 
 moments in games such as F. E. A. R, Call of Duty 4, or Battlefield 2.
  Remember that when I said that B. O. S had a credits system? It did. Of course, the credits system 
 is put there for a reason. You'll need to find "reload" stations to repair your armor and/or restock 
 on ammunition. There are also "save stations," which are, in fact, the only times where you save 
 in game, and it costs either 400 credits or up in order to save properly. Limited saves as well 
 as repeating from certain locations far from your current objective are always two of the negatives 
 in my book.
  Just stay away from this, people. If you are desperate enough to try this, get the demo first. 
 And if you end up liking it, then you are either an idiot or a more forgiving gamer than I am. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RpgTrooper
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Oh come on guys! Why do people rate this game so negatively? I bought the game which included with 
 v1.2 patch, and I found mostly no major bugs (none, so far I remember) . Well, sure some of the 
 game flaws are quite a disturbance (constant heavy breathing) , but the action keeps me focused 
 on the game and less on the developer's goofs. [The CD Key on the cellophane CD cover IS a mistake. 
 If you are observant enough, or an avid thrash collector, for sho' you can't miss it.] 
  
  There are a few extremely annoying parts of the game, imbalanced features, and lacking AI. Oh well, 
 nothing is perfect, no?
  
  There are some rants and raves saying that this game graphics are bad, and resources hungry. My 
 PC specifications are rather old and left behind (only 1 GB of RAM, and a 128 MB ATI Radeon card) 
 these days, but I can still play the game smoothly with only a slight PiTA on max settings. [I 
 keep it down to stay safe and run perfectly.]
  
  Some say the storyline is dull, I do too agree a tad bit. I felt the main character background 
 plot was a little bit unimaginative, but I go with it. You can say it gets repetitive after awhile, 
 but I mostly find new stuff, new battles and new equipment to unlock. This game rather addictive, 
 and had me hooked on the minute I started playing. I really felt let down to see zero (yes, 0) 
 servers online. *sigh*, I remember the good old days of ventilating others in the arena in the 
 good old' Multiplayer demo. Those were the real days. 
  
  I therefore find that this game is: Underappreciated hard work! IMHO, it's not bad, not bad at 
 all! Well planned and developed game by a small company. Though it would be a bigger success if 
 more sweat and blood was put into the game. Hope to see a second title released someday! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo2sfcmike
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 3, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  Well I saw this game on discount for $18.95 so I was like okay ill try it, afterwards I got on 
 to this site to check the review and wow was I shocked that the editors review was really low. 
 So I kept reading and reading then when I installed the game I patched it with that GameShadow 
 program (which is really GREAT: P) and i started to play it and i said to myself WTF!!!!!!!!! this 
 game is REALLY FUN and GOOD:) was that editior smoking weed or something. If your thinking of buying 
 this game then do because its just plain out FUN and dont listen to the editor's review because 
 first that was like 2 years ago before the patches came out second my PC runs this game runs perfect 
 and with beautiful graphics:) and to admit ive fallen alittle behind on upgrades my Comp. Specs 
 Are=AMD Athlon 3000 2.0 GHz/ 1GB Kingston Value RAM/ 5200 MSI Nvidia Geforce Fx 128Mb AND IT RUNS 
 PERFECT!!!!! and this is like the forth time these GameSpot reviewers have lied and let me down: ( 
 so try this game out if you love hardcore FPS and a interesting story line and wanna try something 
 new then this is your cure:)
  Sk8erboi
  mike&amp; ike 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatshott
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 24, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  once you get yourself a ageia physx-x card game looks awesome. you will not believe how incredible 
 some of the explosions look like with this card. you have never seen anything like it before. you 
 will love the flame thrower, games fun its worth picking up. it really is a shame the game did not 
 take off it would of been great to see where this company would develop next. if you can find the 
 expansions for bos
  blood of sahra and black- out saigon they are a nice additions to an already fun game. had alot 
 of problems finding them. contact ageia they are a very helpful company on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Infiltractor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  The game lacks abit of stability but other than that its fine.
  Some minor gliches but once you get past them the game is awsome.
  When they tell you it is alittle 
 like ghost recon and a bit like unreal tournment they are tlking about the best parts of both games. 
 This game is action packed, i admit it was a little easy to make head shots but other then that 
 some of the B. O. S challenges are really hard. When you get used to the game you really start to 
 get into it and the buying armor and guns feature really makes you feel like this betting on soldiers 
 games could happen one day in the meer futur. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: covapraetorian
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I just bought the game at EB-Games for $10... pocket change right? I do not know wut en ze hell 
 gamespot reviewers are talking about, there are no errors to date with this game wut-so-ever. Basically 
 you have the world map. You are assigned missions on certain parts. You choose your weps which 
 are category based: ARs, Commander Rifles, Handguns, SMGs, SRs, and Shotguns are the basics. You 
 get to choose whether or not you want a shield in which you may use a light arm while holding it... but 
 you cannot off a Heavy Weapon in your inventory: Super Shotguns, Rocket Launchers, Gas Weapons (ex. 
 flamethrower) , and Super Machine guns (mini guns) . You also get to choose armor and while playing 
 you have an engineer that follows you around and repairs it when needed/at your command. You may 
 hire mercenaries. You get payed for each kill you commit which is also relative to how you killed 
 it (headshot, object kill, grenade)
  
  You select Bet on Soldier champions (pretty much a boss) in which you fight at specific times on 
 your journey through the level and you have 1 minute to kill them.... this can be one of the toughest 
 parts of the game because as you progress, your challengers also have an upgraded arsenal.
  
  Once you are in game, you move around in a semi-linear battle field and meet up with the BOS 
 challengers.
  
  There are mechs that you are able ride in which have missile launchers and a rotary turret arm. 
 I wasn't too impressed with this but there is nothing wrong with it... the one in AvP2 and BF-2142 
 are way better.
  
  The biggest disappointment is the fact that nobody else plays this game online which would probably 
 be the best part.... unfortunately, I do not think I will ever get to challenge anybody.
  
  The characters are kind of tacky and the dmg effects on your enemies are either blood splatter 
 or completely torn apart.... say from a rocket launcher or super shotgun. (AVP2 was made much earlier 
 and you could at least see spins, lungs, ect. =D.
  
  If I were to put this in a genre, it would be.... Action RPG FPS
  
  So if you are waiting on 
 a game that hasn't come out yet and will soon and have an urge to play a game. Try it out, it isn't 
 bad after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Bet on Soldier and I didnt start off on the right foot, Im afraid, and I have no doubt that other 
 players shared the same experience. My first concern naturally centered on the number of game-killing 
 bugs that initially shipped with the apparently unfinished title. My fears of frequently crashing 
 to the desktop were ameliorated once Kylotonn released a patch or two for their creation; after 
 all, some of my favorite shooters began as premature pariahs, and post-release resolutions will 
 deliver the same FPS fix as coding that is near-perfect straight out of the box. My next major 
 gripe with BoS was with the publishers inclusion of the all-important CD key as an afterthought; 
 affixed as it was to the cellophane wrap around the case, I almost accidentally dumped my chances 
 at getting past the Starforce copy protection into the trash. Nothing says we dont really believe 
 in our product, we only want your big American bucks quite like mishandled marketing and lots 
 of inexplicable glitches.
  
  Once the technical elements of BoS were less of an issue, I found that the gameplay itself was 
 somewhat engaging. The storyline is a continuation of the perpetual war theme introduced in Iron 
 Storm (an unofficial sequel, apparently, since I dont recall any specific mention of BoSs predecessor, 
 although the furtive machinations of the Syndicate rang a few bells) . The scenario introduced in 
 4X Studios one-and-only FPS title jumps forward in time over about 33 years to find a largely 
 unchanged battlefront that developed an absurd approach to the worldwide conflict by arranging 
 specific encounters into Running Man-style gladiator matches. The optional big-name challenges 
 are unimpressive in both their presentation (the zippy game show introduction that heralded each 
 spectacle grated on my nerves) and their execution (unless my opponent was sporting those awful 
 hallucinogenic bullets, I had most of them crushed under my boot in a trice) , but I appreciated 
 the extra cash flow. After all, saving to the hard drive isnt even possible without funds; one 
 of the games more ingeniously sick conceits is that soldiers must provide for their own participation 
 in the deadly global stalemate by spending their hard-earned cash on ammo, armor, implements of 
 destruction, and even checkpoints. Keeping my bank balance in the black was never very difficult 
 once I learned to resist the urge to reload my guns before the clip is empty  unspent shots are 
 not recovered, which quickly becomes an exercise in gathering warbucks into a pile and burning 
 them  and wasting one jumbo Exoskeleton after another during the later levels provides a major 
 boost in earnings.
  
  Driving an Exo suit of my own was one of the more entertaining opportunities to rack up enough 
 cash to buy new toys. As for handheld weapons, the rifles, grenades, and heavy hitters are fairly 
 varied, but although I tried each weapon at least once, I kept to a pistol/assault rifle/war shotgun 
 combination throughout most of the game. Headshots are positively essential, since plinking away 
 at some of the better-equipped attackers requires a large investment in ammo, so the pistol (which 
 is actually accurate enough to double as a mid-range tool for sniping) and rifle were quite useful. 
 The two-handed war shotgun was a literal blast to use, as it would strip and fling even the most 
 magnetically sealed bad guys with naught but a round or two. A wide range of explosive barrels 
  one of my favorite FPS furnishings since Doom, no matter how incongruously placed they may be 
  offer the same fine flavors (flame, gas, and a delicious grape-hued hallucinogen) as the relatively 
 cheap and oft-used grenades.
  
  The games settings are massive and incredibly detailed, with everything from wide, flat snowscapes 
 to jagged and rutted desert battlegrounds. Every square inch of surface area in the cities and 
 bases is convincingly covered with the scars and detritus of the unrelenting war. Even though Bet 
 on Soldiers gameplay involves nothing more than mowing down one group of enemy combatants after 
 another, the scenery was nice enough to keep me moving forward.
  
  Few events in the world of PC entertainment are as depressing as a severely botched game release, 
 particularly when the title contains a few redeeming qualities. Bet on Soldier started out with 
 so many malfunctions that Im sure that more than a few copies were tossed into the trash. BoSs 
 toll-driven checkpoint system removed any incentive to try many risky maneuvers for fear of having 
 to backtrack over the same old ground, so my modus operandi was almost completely limited to creeping 
 forward, hailing the next small group of enemies, and retreating to cover (where my two squadmates 
 were usually holed up to help out with an ambush) . However, players who patched BoS into a functional 
 state and stuck with its dolorous and, ultimately, completely pointless storyline were rewarded 
 with some genuinely challenging encounters under the beautiful blood-hued skies of Cuba. To me, 
 Bet on Soldier was fun, graphically impressive, but not particularly endearing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7640688
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  A great game, great plot, intruiging gameplay, and a well thought out concept. The only issue is 
 patching. Needs work. The american 1.2 patch still didnt fix the games bugs, but I love games that 
 inspire me. Just because something doesnt work doesnt mean it isnt good. Take an old beat up mustang 
 that wont run for example. It may not work but it is still an appreciated piece of artwork. The 
 problem with most gamers now adays is that they want instant gratification, sadly the company tries 
 to dish out as fast as possible. This can cause errors and marketing errors. So dont hate the game 
 for being bugged. Blame yourselves for being so greedy for blood. Killing is your currency! Bet 
 on Soldier deserves a break from flamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shakadam
Rating: 2.8
Date: Oct 20, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  i think the demo version of the game is the best thing about the game.
  what was up with the guys creating this (drunk) ?
  game play / i really dont know what to say 
 about the game play. it a balance. ok when it stops juddering.
  grafix / they have got nothing write ( the lighting, the shadows, pixels , colours ) grafix are 
 what you would have got 10 years ago.
  sound / i thought there was something wrong with my speakers and the speech is as if it was being 
 read of the script paper for the first time.
  value / free would be worth it only if you want a quick laugh but after the laugh you may end up 
 breaking your PC.
  good idea S**T game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: behony
Rating: 2.9
Date: Sep 19, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  if you can get it to work, you might hate it. i found it to be really boring and monotonouse. supposedly 
 there is a patch for it but i could not find it.
  the graphics are ugly and the gameplay is dull. major stability issues.
  i got as far as playing 
 it for 2 minutes before it crashes and it uses starforce which places rootkits on your system. 
 the gameplay video looks 10x better then it really is. i think it is not actual gameplay.
  it could have been way better. it should have been way better.
  try it if you can get it from 
 a friend who was disapointed with it but dont pay money for it. you can find it in your local bargan 
 bin for $4.99 i would rather buy lunch with it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korlis612
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 6, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Bet on Soldier has a pretty interesting premise that it never lives up to. It's pretty much just 
 awful. The gameplay will immediately strike you as 'not bad', but you're going to have to put up 
 with dumb AI, disappointing weapons, and a lot of bugs if you want to try and enjoy that. The boss 
 fights against the enemy B. O. S. players, theoretically the main point of the game, are completely 
 lacklustre. There's a time limit so even if you wanted a complex battle, it wouldn't last more 
 than a minute anyway, and it's just a case of blasting the crap out of your opponent until they're 
 down. The way armour breaks off is interesting, and I'll give it credit for that, but it's one 
 of the exceedingly rare good points. Due to the way you can resupply in the middle of the level 
 and just buy new ammunition, grenades and armour, you're pretty much invincible, even against the 
 armoured walkers - which supposedly have a weak point, but are so easy to take down by simply pummelling 
 them with fire there's no incentive to find it. The friendly AI is abysmal, and on the levels where 
 you have to keep someone alive, forget about it - my last straw in the game was escorting an engineer 
 through a horrifically designed level, only to stray too close to the invisible trigger that started 
 a B. O. S. fight. That, of course, moved me into the new area to fight one on one with the enemy 
 character, abandoning the engineer with no way back to him even after the battle was won, resulting 
 in a lost level when the regular enemies killed him with no way to save him.
  
  Just don't bother. To top it off, it ships with the infamous Starforce copy protection, which is 
 always a negative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joel_nukem_hell
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 20, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  well for a start the story line isnt to bad at all its hard for be to think why people wouldnt 
 understand the story ..... ill blame that on the school system in there countery what can i say 
 i tryed to put that nicely .... so story good now for how the game looks i find it a bit to dark. 
 and some lights to bright.
  but if you think about it go stand in a dark room for an hour or so and have some one shine a light 
 in your eyes can you make out eny thing after that ?? probly not so that explanes the lighting 
 same gos for walking out of a bright room and trying to walk down a dark hall way filled with stuff 
 to get around just aint easy is it. ok maybe a bad example to some of you but that about how the 
 lighting is in this game for this game though that aint bad.
  sound could of been better music could of been better but it could of been a hell of a lot worse..... 
 what ells well the game play is fun the blood is fairly ok the fact that they use the F word and 
 what not in a war game isnt a bad thing you think of this if you had a bunch of people with guns 
 trying to kill you i bet you would be saying it to. hey its war in real war we cant expect the 
 soilders to say words like cookie and fluffy bunny no there gonna say F#$%ing B#$@$ and othere 
 words like Eat my @55 and what not so if you wont your glass bubble to stay intacted dont pick 
 this game up but if your a die hard shooter fan like my self who has been playing them sence you 
 got your first computer pick this one up its worth a play the online play is grate over lan if 
 you do the hole lan party thing. mainly the game is good fun. and its 100 time better then .... 
 fire starter now thats a bad game still beat it but it wasnt fun playin threw it. bet on soilder 
 on the othere hand is fun and if you have eny sort of brain the story is fairly good 2 and easy 
 to understand 
  
  quick tip
  
  the game isnt a run and gun shooter !!!!! if you wont a head shot get down on your knees you wouldnt 
 hold the fire butten in counter strike till your clip is out would you know you burst fire same 
 thing gos for this game but its a little more forgiving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easy0neasy0ff
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 16, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Before I start , I have to admit that this was NOT one of my favorite games by a long shot. When 
 I purchased it from EB games bargain bin for $10 I was not expecting much. I always install games 
 and then run updates and patches before I even play them so I cannot relate with people who played 
 pre-patched versions. 
  Cons - 
  Buggy AI - they straif left and right most of the time, or just stand still.
  Usless weapon choices 
 - most of the time you will go in with same weapon OR with an upgraded version of the same weapon.
 
  Strait forward game play - No real open game play.
  Odd or missused sounds - Some sound FX are just too out of place.
  Video problems - Odd colors 
 or video fragments at times , looked like clipping problems.
  Respawning enemies - Ive said it before and I'll say it again. I HATE respawning enemies
  Pros 
 -
  Game length - More lengthy than your average PC FPS.
  Game play - Slightly more engaging than your average PC FPS ( i can name a few that really let 
 me down )
  Non consistant AI - Yes they do nearly the same thing over and over , but never in the same way. 
 I know it sounds odd , but I hadly ever faught the same battle the same way twice.
  Fun weapons - Yes there are some useless waepons, but some are quite fun to shoot with , and head 
 shots are still an addiction.
  Video goodies - Weapon muzzle flare , vehicle and weapon design , along with that shiney metal 
 effect on them are all top notch.
  Engine - Interactive physics engine.
  
  All in all this is a better than average FPS that I dont think got as much praise as it should 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sargejordan
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 23, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  This game has no story in the SP, but still, its addictive blowing stuff up, letting your ppl be 
 cannon fodder, go in first but come out last, its pretty fun i guess.
  
  This game is a little underapreciated because we dont get the essence of ageia physx, but my rate 
 wont be the best... in some ways, i think that this game should have had better sinking with the 
 voices, more ammo, and not as much bobbing of the gun... that made me think less of what is actually 
 a good game. If any of you disagree, then maybe it is just my way of thinking it.
  
  This game makes my computer fry up a little bit too, too little for a big download... if it was 
 295 MB that would be better.... the prey demo smashed the *beep* out of my computer too....
  
  This was an ok game..... my ratings aren't going to be high nor low... so you guys might agree 
 with me..
  
  ~sarge 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi098
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 15, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  I don't get it?
  
  Why people don't like this game?
  
  Its got action, and oh buy is there alot of action, Good grafix, very original rifels and over all 
 nice game play.
  Yes i know everyone says it has horrible bugs and lags Personaly i have no idea wat they are talking 
 about exept that from time to time ur fellow ai get lost but he comes around after a cuple of seconds!!
 
  
  I would go around saying it's FEAR or CS: S or even Doom 3 for that matter but the game is good 
 and kind of adictive!!!
  
  Overall its not the best game ever or even close but play it it a pretty nice one.
  
  Tip: Update 
 to 1.2 it soves most of the problems!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcjacal
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  all i can say is, wow. i was realy expectin tis game adn it comes out... and it horrible. horrible 
 lag, profane language, bad grafix and a royally messed up sound track. if i'm runnign for 5 seconds 
 y does my character sound like a asthmatic?!? i kno he's wearing heavy armor (in my case, scout, 
 the lightest) but his breathing is ridiculous, *pant, gasp, cough, choke* also, ur "comrades in 
 arms" have a bad habit of dropping the F-bomb for no reason at all. Ur bet on soldier enemies also 
 have a wierd accent. (try CAnadian / French / German / British / Swahili / Mexican) The graficks 
 seemed okay at first, but for a game that's call "blood sport" there's no gore. just stupid blood 
 shooting out in obscen ways. (out of everywear) if u r lucky enuf to score a lucky headshot with 
 the sniper rifle (it "walks" up as u shoot it, making aiming next to impossible) you are rewarded 
 with a short fountain of blood which only makes the game dumber. they pride themselves on their 
 A. I and for a while i believed them. solders hid behing other solders with sheilds, didnt' get 
 hit wit ther own 'nades too much, and were plentiful to kill. but when im in a gigantonormous walker 
 with a chain-gun, you might want to move out of the way. (hint hint, they don't) also, they don't 
 get lost too much (just kidding, their retarded) on the plus side, uh, well, hmmm, the guns are 
 interesting. seriously. There are a lot of fun guns in this game. from the chaingun to the commando 
 rifle to ur stupid little knife, these guns are cool. and with hundreds of mindless meat shields 
 just begging to be killed, you wil have plenty of ways to test them. also, i like it when u shoot 
 a barrel, it will leak out and explode, making mini flamethrowers. also the flamethrower is another 
 cool gun. overall, avoid this at all costs!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerPlayer914
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jan 13, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  A first-person shooter is a first-person shooter is a first-person shooter, right? There are ones 
 with pretty graphics and ones with impressive physics, ones with smart enemies and ones with lots 
 and lots of stupid ones. There are ones with compelling storylines and ones with a little less 
 finesse, but they all feel pretty much the same. Bet on Soldier: Blood Sport tweaks the standard 
 formula with some interesting additions, but falters badly when it comes to the basics.
  
  A Profitable Endeavor
  
  Bet On Soldier features a decidedly monetary-based formula for gameplay. 
 Think of yourself as a sort of mercenary soldier/gladiator -- every bullet is an expense, every kill 
 is revenue, and youll need to maintain the fine balance between profitability and staying alive. 
 Throwing a clip of ammo at everything that moves gets expensive, but being conservative gets you 
 dead, and there are no health packs.
  
  Instead, before each mission youll don an expensive set of body armor. Damaged armor can be repaired 
 mid-missionfor a fee, of course. Even saving your game costs a pretty penny, and youll never 
 pick up any extra ammo for free during a mission, even though youll be killing enemies who hold 
 the same weapons as you. Instead, you have to rely on re-supply points. 
  
  It all gets expensive, but you can literally make a killing eliminating foes and completing missions. 
 Then, of course, theres the reason for the word Bet in the title. Through most of the missions 
 youll be running along killing enemy troops and completing objectives. However, from time to time 
 youll unwittingly stumble into an arena and face off against an especially difficult opponent, 
 usually one packing advanced armor and weapons. Before each mission you place a bet on yourself. 
 Kill your opponent and you win extra cash. Take too long to defeat them and you loose your bet. 
 Get killed and, well... at least you wont have to worry about the money you just lost!
  
  Slipping Profit Margins
  
  Offline the biggest problem is the AI. You can hire mercenary sidekicks 
 before a mission, spending more or less depending on their qualifications and equipment. Dont 
 spend too much, though, because theyre all brain-dead; some just have better guns. They blunder 
 through levels getting stuck at corners or on ladders and stand there in the line of fire ignorant 
 of the rounds plinking off of their armor. 
  
  Their only saving grace is that the enemy is no more intelligent. Your opponents seem to have no 
 idea that they, too, are only as durable as their armor. Being able to selectively shoot off helmets 
 or chestplates with a sniper rifle is fun, but when youve shot someone three or four times in 
 succession, each time knocking off a piece of their armor, youd expect them to at least move toward 
 some cover, rather than just standing there firing on full-auto.
  
  The soldiers you face in arenas feature better hardware but similar gray matter. Theyll stand 
 100 yards off, futilely popping their shotguns in your direction while you score hits with your 
 sniper rifle, or theyll just wander around aimlessly while you tear them apart with your chain 
 gun. 
  
  Your enemies are usually smarter online, but the game still isnt fun. The premise of profitable 
 battles with arena-based sub-sections is interesting, but the execution is lacking here, too. Online 
 play calls on you to hack ticket terminals, place bets, challenge opponents, and earn upgrades 
 for yourself. But hacking those ticket terminals takes over a minute, far too long considering 
 youre completely vulnerable while doing so. And, as this is the only way to play online, it gets 
 old quickly.
  
  Just the Beginning
  
  There are many more problems here than just dumb AI and tiresome online play. The Starforce copy 
 protection results in your system hanging completely for 30 seconds whenever you launch the game. 
 It loads, eventually, but when your mouse cursor wont move and everything seems locked its a 
 little disconcerting. 
  
  The game also crashes frequently, more or less so depending on your hardware configuration. Crashes 
 are particularly frequent should you have a card from Creative Labs. The game is virtually incompatible 
 with their Audigy series. 
  
  However, with generic music, bland effects, and some absolutely terrible voice acting, you may 
 be better off without. Imagine an Eastern European dude with a strong native accent trying to sound 
 like a good ol boy from Kentucky. Its literally painful to listen to. Graphics are better, featuring 
 plenty of specular highlighting, reflective surfaces, bump mapping, and other graphical goodies 
 youd expect in a modern FPS. However, where a game like Half-Life 2 uses them subtly to create 
 a gorgeous scene, these effects seem tacked on to an otherwise lackluster graphics engine, producing 
 less than stellar visuals at less than optimal frame rates. 
  
  Diminished Returns
  
  Bet On Soldier is an interesting attempt at breaking the first-person shooter mould, and it could 
 have been something special if the rest of the game werent rather mediocre. The frequent crashes 
 and slow load times thanks to Starforce just help to seal the deal: put your money elsewhere. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destroyeron13
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  The game is good, the graphics are ok, I actually enjoyed it the one time I got to play it. Unfortunately 
 the game is protected by StarForce Protection Software. go here to learn more about it: http://www. glop. org/starforce/ 
 People say that the game has great ideas though they are horribly implemented, I don't know what 
 they mean. How else would you have a world where people place bets on soldiers battles? My only 
 greif about the gameplay is the levels are far too linear, though if you just like shooting it'll 
 suit you perfectly because its pretty hard to get lost. Look at the map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha666
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Bet On Soldier? What the heck does that mean? Absolutely nothing! That's what! That is only the 
 first of many problems to come with Bet On Soldier. Bet On Soldier is a nice idea, a futuristic 
 FPS where soldiers are bet on to kill eachother. Nicely done, but it does kinda rip off of Unreal 
 Tournament, but not too much. The graphics are good in this game, I don't know what gamespot is 
 smoking, and the sound is also great. Again, I have no idea what gamespot is smoking. I think they 
 just instantly come up with a rating for a game, and no matter how good the factors of the game 
 are, they just rate them down and up until they get the final score they want. Now the problems 
 start in this game with the gameplay. At times, it is fun, but most of the time, it's the glitchiest, 
 stupidest (referring to A. I.) , most annoying thing you could ever play. You could be charging at 
 an enemy, and as soon as you start firing at him, he dissapears. That is a major problem. You could 
 be firing at another enemy, and half of his body dissapears. -_- Then later, you could be charging 
 at an enemy, and you could just plain old fall right through the floor. ??? Things like that just 
 throw this game in the trash, when it could be sooooo much better. But the times when the game 
 ISN'T full of glitches, are great, fast-paced gory action comes to your hands, but it's only so 
 long before the game starts farting around again and shooting you through the walls and floors. 
 It's just one thing after another. This game might not even be that fun to casual gamers when it's 
 at it's full potential, I thought it was because I played it right after I got done with the nightmarish 
 PARIAh, so I don't know too well, but I did like the non glitchy moments, even though there were 
 few of them, but I don't reccommend you pick this up at all. It's not worth your money at all, 
 when there's this many glitches (enough to stop you from ever finishing the game) you should not 
 pick it up at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kickfliperus
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2005 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Bet on Soldier may seem like a complete failure at the beggining of play. After i bought it and 
 played it for half a hour i had my mind made up i was taking the game back to exchange it. Fortianatly 
 for me i couldnt find the recipt for the game so i forced myself to play it more. After a hours 
 worth of gameplay i soon realized that B. o. S had something good going for it. After breaking through 
 the tough shell of B. o. S i started to enjoy myself and found myself losing track of time playing 
 it. 
  
  Gameplay: The game takes at least a good hours worth of gameplay to soon enjoy it in the least 
 amount.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are slick and beautiful. But charector models often look sweaty and wet.
 
  
  Sound: The sound of the bullets whizing by the is unforgetable. But sadly your fellow soldies constant 
 battle cries get repitive
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inu__Yasha
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 23, 2005 10:34 pm PT
Review:  I cannot see why Gamespot or any other rating website in the US for that matter, rated this game 
 so poorely! B. O. S is a amazing game! I really think that Gamespot rated unfairly! B. O. S has a amazing 
 storyline, graphics, levels, and just about everything els! Do not listen to these rating websites! 
 If you like FPS then you will LOVE B. O. S! I truley cannot find any flaws with this game, excluding 
 some random bugs that occure very rarely. Despite the bugs, B. O. S does everything perfectly! I 
 had more fun playing B. o. S then i did playing CS! This game is a true diamond in the rough and 
 deserves to be played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farsided
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 13, 2005 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I'd have to say I have a pretty good computer... that being the case, I have had practically no 
 problem with this game... in fact, I've set aside playing guild wars for the past week in order 
 to blast my way through the missions in Bet on Soldier. Initially, I couldn't stand the game... everything 
 cost way too much (even saving) and the weapons i had (a pistol and an assault rifle) left something 
 to be desired. I had actually gotten the game for free with a new motherboard, so I wasn't bummed 
 out when I took it off my computer. That night, I had a revalation though... all I could think of 
 was getting my hands on the machine gun and blowing some enemies away... with that inspiring me, 
 I ended up with an smg (great for one on one encounters because of it's ability to get headshots 
 with relative ease, as well as some sniping ablities when you're zoomed in) and the machine gun, 
 which I actually used very little, because of the effectiveness of my smg. So I went through some 
 missions, and after taking on the champions in under 30 seconds with my massive firepower, I decided 
 that it was totally worth keeping on my computer and playing. I'm still playing it and am set up 
 with a great set of armor and weapons, still holding on to the machine gun and smg (the machine 
 gun is so great for taking on those exo's I hate so much too) I've actually only encountered 2 
 glitches in the entire game: the first was a mis-save, and the second was when I got stuck behind 
 a ladder (which I fixed by planting a grenade beneath my feet, lifting me up and out of my "predicament"!!!) 
 Overall, I'd say this is a beautiful game with incredible looking maps, and if forced to pay for 
 it, I'd gladly do so!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alrenchy1
Rating: 1.7
Date: Dec 2, 2005 3:07 am PT
Review:  They must have a put a lot of thought of how to sell this game because it did. The packaging looks 
 really good and had some good comments. But being like me buying the newest games out there without 
 waiting for the reviews snag this one. Wrong mistake, the opening of the movie was already bad. 
 Bet on Soldier was made by amatuers who didn't put enough time on the game. The story is about 
 a man whos wife is murdered and his dog also that the only way he could kill the murderers is to 
 become a soldier which everyone is betting on who's gonna win. It sounds really cheesy, like some 
 old z rated movies that didn't made it to the theaters. I wasted $39.99 on this game hell, I just 
 play this so could game on the first level and I was already tired of it. I would rather play chinese 
 checkers than this one, it's just so bad I got rid of it and deleted it from hard drive. If you're 
 a hardcore gamer like me please don't this game, it will make you look bad, if you own it please 
 throw it away or wrap for christmas gift for someone who can tolarate playing this game. Anyways, 
 the graphics is okay since I have an SLI system but everything else is just ridiculous. The story 
 is so lame, the AI is so predictable, and lame the sound was like taken from a low budget war movie. 
 It's just bad I give them one for trying to make a game anyways. To the players i highly recommend 
 "not" to buy this game and to the makers of this game if you guys are still able to make another 
 game, do some research. I know I'm a harsh critic and there's a saying that" No one made a monument 
 for a critic" but then again no one made a monument for a ridiculous game. Thanks for reading and 
 don't forget to scratch this off your christmas wishlist. Happy holidays to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doggypoodoo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  WOW. What can I say other than Gamespot has already mentioned in their review. Nothing but solid 
 perfection. 
  
  GRAPHICS: On par with Halo 3, and Doom 3, and Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2003. Simply Amazing, I still 
 can't beleive how beautiful this game looks, the levels are so hot right now!!!
  
  GAMEPLAY: AMAZINGLY FLUID GAMEPLAY!!!!! This game is so gosh darn fabulous that I cant keep my 
 hands off of it. In fact, i just had to have to have it!! I need to stop writing this, so I can 
 go and play it some more
  Just take my advice, and look at all of the other solid reviews, and know that when you purchase, 
 you cant go wrong...
  
  I camped out at teh store for 16 hours at launch of this game, and I was so surprised when no one 
 else came. It was a STEAL!!!!! 
  
  The SLEEPER HIT OF THE YEAR!!!!!!!!!!!!! meh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion_great
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 8, 2005 9:35 pm PT
Review:  The idea, and gameplay here are very good, but I must say theres still some bugs even with the 
 patch. This isnt really anything new, its kinda like UT.
  The graphics warnt that good.
  The game itself is pretty good, and I think the multiplayer is even better but I cant belive it 
 took them 2 years to make this. Uselly it takes about a year, but they also made there own engine.
 
  
  But anyways its not that bad and at least they tried.
  I hope they learned something new while making this game, and lets hope the future game will be 
 better.
  
  So ye I think you should get this game when the price drops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steve_dude10
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay;
  
  Ill give this game one thing, it has a good idea, and for the multiplayer part, it works out awesome. 
 But what really stands in the way is the bugs in this game. numerous times I've had it crash on 
 me on a level for no reason what so ever. The AI is very stupid (often times you'll have your teammates 
 run infront of you trying to protect you when your trying to snipe someone from long range) . For 
 the multiplayer, there is TONS of lag, I know it's not my connection either and EVERYONE who plays 
 it online will get tons of lag. If it wasn't for the lag, then this game could get a good rating 
 for being a good multiplayer shooter.
  
  Graphics;
  
  The game has some nice graphics on it's highest settings, but once you start turning it down to 
 low, it looks like it was made in 1999. Also, the characters are very "shinny". Even on the lowest 
 settings, they shine. (which is very weird) .
  
  Sound;
  
  Nothing special...
  
  Value;
  
  considering all the problems with the game, it isn't worth it. Save your money until 
 this game drops in price or they fix the problems in a patch.
  
  Final Verdict;
  
  It's creative, but with all the bugs, it's not worth it... I give this a 5.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinamika
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2005 4:07 am PT
Review:  Well to start gameplay is a bit clumsy, graphics are normal, Soun isnt very bad, i liked this the 
 multyplayer component and the story line. If you see the cutscenes some of them are low quality 
 ,some of the levels of hard and some of the levels are easy, bad desing. But the storyline is hard 
 to figure it out!
  
  IF YOU WANT TO THIS GAME I DON'T DO IT!!!!!! 
  
  TRUST ME!!!!
  
  bbbb !
  b b !
  b b aaa ddd !
  b b a a d d !
  bbbbb a a d d !
  b b aaaaa d d !
  
 b b a a d d !
  bbbb a a ddd !
  o 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
