-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Beyond Divinity
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/beyonddivinity/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  3, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.2, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 463 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Hip Games
Developer: Larian Studios
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Apr 28, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is a good, solid choice either for fans of Larian's last game or for anyone up for a deep computer 
 role-playing experience. 

  Call it Diviner Divinity. The sequel to 2002's surprisingly good old-school role-playing game from 
 Belgian developer Larian Studios isn't a huge departure from its predecessor, but it won't seem 
 as surprisingly good if you've had the pleasure of playing the previous game. However, it does 
 offer a lengthy, brand-new quest and party-based gameplay, whereas the previous game was a single-character 
 affair. Beyond Divinity, like its strangely-named predecessor Divine Divinity (which incidentally 
 is included with the new game as a free bonus) , combines the hack-and-slash action and open-ended 
 character building of the Diablo games with the detailed, open-ended world and quest-heavy single-player 
 gameplay of the classic Ultima games, or more recent hits like The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind. 
 The result may be a little too overwhelming or simply too difficult for the role-playing neophyte, 
 though fans of Divine Divinity and other games like it should certainly give the new sequel a shot. 
 It promises many hours of addictive adventuring, all with a tone that succeeds at being self-consciously 
 humorous in the face of some fairly conventional fantasy trappings.  

          Diablo-style action crossed with Ultima-style questing and detail characterized 2002's 
 Divine Divinity as well as its new sequel.     

  Though Beyond Divinity has a lot in common with its predecessor, you don't need to be familiar 
 with that game's story to dive right into this one. The premise of Beyond Divinity is just like 
 one of those movies where two guys who would hate each other under normal circumstances instead 
 have to join forces. You, the hero, awaken in a dungeon and are confronted with a death knight -- a 
 creature who lives for evil. A conversation transpires to this effect: "Look, man. I don't like 
 you, and you don't like me. But if we're gonna get out of this mess alive, we're gonna have to 
 work together." You and the death knight have been bound together by a sadistic demon. So you're 
 trying to escape from his dungeon and, eventually, find a way to break the bond between the two 
 of you. In gameplay terms, what this means is that you'll usually be controlling a pair of characters 
 in Beyond Divinity.  

  When you first begin play, you're able to define the starting characteristics of the hero character 
 as well as the death knight. As in Divine Divinity, the three basic templates are for a warrior, 
 a mage, and a survivalist, who's basically a Dungeons &amp; Dragons-style rogue. As you gain experience 
 levels in the game, you can apply attribute points to a number of key stats, and you can also apply 
 skill points to specialize your character in different ways. This system is completely open ended, 
 inviting you to play the game however you see fit. In practice, though, it pays to take advantage 
 of the two-character dynamic by specializing one character (probably the surly death knight) as 
 a close-combat fighter and the other character (probably the diplomatic hero) as a ranged attacker 
 and/or magic user. Such combinations are ideal for fending off the game's legions of powerful, 
 but typically none-too-intelligent, foes.  

  Beyond Divinity also offers four different difficulty settings, presented only when you first begin 
 play. The game itself doesn't tell you what the specific differences between these settings are, 
 but suffice it to say that less experienced players should gravitate toward the easier-sounding 
 settings without feeling guilty, because Beyond Divinity is a hard game. The initial escape sequence, 
 which is a lengthy dungeon crawl through a decidedly perilous dungeon, will introduce you to this 
 game's unabashed tendency to kill you suddenly, often by the inopportune springing of traps, but 
 also at the hands of numerous strong, hardy foes.  

  This is one of those games where even the loading screens encourage you to save your progress often. 
 There's a convenient quick-save option, but it's not as convenient as it could be since saving 
 your progress in Beyond Divinity takes a few disruptive seconds. Yet, if you don't routinely save 
 your game, you'll get that much more frustrated when you eventually get killed. It's "game over" 
 if either the hero or the death knight runs out of hit points. Thankfully, you can pause the action 
 instantly and at any time by pressing the space bar, and while paused, you can designate new targets, 
 quaff potions that instantly restore your health or magic power, and so on. You can also set your 
 characters to auto-attack any hostiles in the vicinity. Without the pause feature the game would 
 have been pretty much unmanageable; with the pause feature, the game is tactical and often challenging 
 without being sluggish. The pacing can take some getting used to, but considering how much ground 
 there is to cover in this game, you'll ultimately appreciate that the combat is nice and fast. 

          Get used to having the death knight around. He may have a foul temper, but he's your lifeline, 
 and you're his.     

  Questing in Beyond Divinity is fairly conventional. Characters will ask you to perform various 
 errands for them, which are sometimes simple two-step processes, but other times they are a lot 
 more elaborate. There's a fairly decent quest log to help you keep track of all of what you're 
 supposed to be doing, and there's also an onscreen minimap and a full-screen map that's annotated 
 with places of interest to keep you from getting too lost. The interface generally works well, 
 though one aspect of it that's quite cumbersome is the inventory, which is a big mishmash of all 
 the junk you've amassed on your journey. Good luck looking for smaller items like magic rings in 
 there. Granted, this is probably an appropriate simulation of what it must be like trying to find 
 a small trinket in a huge backpack full of crossbows, potions, spears, helmets, fruit, and books 
 and such.  

  What's impressive about Beyond Divinity, like its predecessor, is the sheer volume of stuff in 
 the game -- from the physical items you'll find and equip to all the places you'll go, things you'll 
 fight, and people you'll meet. Like Divine Divinity, this game has some very large, multilevel 
 areas for you to explore, and important details can be hidden anywhere, demanding you to be observant. 
 Fortunately, among the interface features retained from the previous game are the abilities to 
 highlight any onscreen items that can be picked up by holding the Alt key and to automatically 
 target the enemy closest to your cursor by holding Ctrl when left-clicking. These helpful interface 
 features prevent Beyond Divinity from devolving into a game that's all about fishing for places 
 to click.     

  Beyond Divinity's open-ended structure means it's possible to run into enemies that are much too 
 powerful for you. Since your characters do become appreciably stronger as they level up, you'll 
 always be on the lookout for the easier things to fight so that you can gain and maintain an edge 
 in combat. One new option to achieve this is the battlefields -- areas that become instantly accessible 
 from each of the game's main acts -- once you find the appropriate magic artifact that lets you teleport 
 there, that is. The battlefields contain merchants who'll buy or sell stuff as well as send you 
 on fetch quests or kill quests into yonder wilderness, or specifically, into yonder dungeons in 
 yonder wilderness. These battlefield sequences are optional and are much more transparent as a 
 pure hack-and-slash grind than most of the game's other sequences. But since Beyond Divinity works 
 well from a mechanical standpoint, and since it is addictive to play between all the fighting, 
 leveling up, and finding new stuff, the battlefields can be a good diversion. They're also there 
 just to help prevent you from ever getting too stuck.  

          Being a hero (or death knight) isn't easy. Beyond Divinity caters to experienced role-playing 
 gamers with its huge areas to explore and numerous, tough foes to fight.     

  As mentioned, it's not necessarily just you and the death knight doing all the damage. In Beyond 
 Divinity, you'll be able to find and use summoning dolls, which are another new addition since 
 the previous game. Summoning dolls become temporary party members, each with its own customizable 
 stats and abilities. They can give you an edge in battle, and they can also make the combat considerably 
 more complex. Some of the optional skills you may specialize in revolve all around boosting the 
 powers of these summoned creatures, but in the end you needn't depend on them unless you so choose. 

  Just because it's open-ended doesn't mean all the options in Beyond Divinity are viable. A downloadable 
 patch issued soon after the release of the game makes numerous tweaks and changes to the game's 
 skill system and some of the game's other aspects. Some of the play balancing remains questionable, 
 though the game's lack of linearity works well both ways, since it means you can always try something 
 different if what you're trying to do isn't working. Be that as it may, Beyond Divinity is generally 
 lacking a desirable layer of polish. For instance, whenever you die, the screen prompts you to 
 press Escape, though you really should be quick-loading your last saved game. There are also minor 
 typographical errors throughout the game's textual dialogue. You'll also notice that the death 
 knight's voice sounds noticeably different in the cutscenes between the game's acts versus during 
 the actual gameplay. The game's noninteractive story sequences also leave something to be desired. 
 You'll stumble upon these sequences only to completely lose control of your characters as some 
 triggered, scripted sequence pans out -- which is normally fine, but sometimes it means you'll be 
 helpless at the hands of nearby foes. The cumbersome inventory and somewhat clunky interface for 
 trading with non-player characters also contribute to Beyond Divinity's rather rustic feel, if 
 computer role-playing games are even capable of being rustic.  

  Granted, the presentation is much the same as 2002's Divine Divinity, but the intervening months 
 haven't been too kind. This is still an attractive-looking game, featuring a fine level of detail 
 and some good-looking special effects. The main difference in the presentation is that this game, 
 unlike its predecessor, has fully 3D characters running around on the prerendered backdrops, which 
 is certainly a change but not necessarily a marked improvement. In fact, the 3D characters seem 
 to have lost a bit of sharpness since the last game, though they certainly don't look bad. If there's 
 an issue with the visuals, it's that they look flat. The backgrounds are rather static, and the 
 lighting tends to be pretty drab, so if you've gotten used to the rich and colorful 3D graphics 
 of today's cutting-edge PC games, then Beyond Divinity's modest good looks won't impress you.  
 

          Beyond Divinity is well suited for hardcore fans of role-playing games, including fans 
 of the previous game.     

  The game's audio ultimately deserves a lot of credit, though one way to describe it is that it's 
 inconsistent. There's a lot of voice-over to go with the dialogue, but the voice-acting performances 
 are spotty and often quite silly. Were it not for the fairly lighthearted dialogue, the effects 
 of this would have been disastrous, but in the end, the goofy voice acting fits well with the often 
 equally goofy conversations. Sound effects are all quite good, though in many cases they are lifted 
 directly from the previous game. Much like in Divine Divinity, the music here is what steals the 
 show as far as audio is concerned. A wide selection of moody, moving classical-styled tunes, often 
 laced with choir vocals, do much to set the fantasy role-playing mood. Some other, more ambient 
 tracks are good for suspense, though on some occasions the music is cut off, which is unfortunate 
 since you'll want to keep listening to it.  

  Then again, you'll have plenty of time to listen to the music during this game's lengthy journey. 
 Beyond Divinity, like its predecessor, is a sprawling adventure that gives you the freedom to play 
 as you wish. It's actually somewhat more focused than the first game, and it gives you clear-cut 
 objectives that you're free to accomplish using your own devices. The game's core elements -- the 
 combat, the questing, and the exploration -- are all effectively implemented, and the two-character 
 dynamic and open-ended skill system introduced in Beyond Divinity should be enough to make the 
 action seem just different enough to those who have already poured dozens of hours into the first 
 game. This is a good, solid choice either for fans of Larian's last game or for anyone up for a 
 deep computer role-playing experience, especially given the small drought the genre has experienced 
 in these past few months.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Thrasher91604
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2009 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Short and sweet: this was fun but the bugs kind of overwhelmed the experience. And the atrocious 
 voice acting was annoying.
  
  Otherwise it was fun. But at the end I had no desire to continue the game by entering the post 
 game battlefields.
  
  I'd say it's strengths are the good story, fantastic music, good sound effects.
  
  It's weaknesses 
 are, as said above, the poor voice acting the voices would change for the same character, and the 
 accents and acting was mant time either annoying or inappropriate, even if intended as a bad joke) , 
 tons of bugs throughout (including broken quests) , pixel hunting gameplay, too difficult beginning, 
 pointless (or unfinished) elements like alchemy plants
  
  I'd play Divine Divinity before this one. It was less buggy, and more fully developed, further 
 the character skill development system was better. Many of the skills are almost entirely worthless.
 
  
  Nevertheless, I did finish it and enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxikyd
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  While the premise is good, natural enemies being forced to work together ala "Enemy Mine", the 
 execution was a failure. At the heart of the problem ins Laran Studio's apparent lack of concern 
 for players' needs. 
  
  Questions and complaints to Laran studios were shuffled off to one of the many (mostly useless) 
 forums, where playwers were given opportunities to vent, but little in the way of help. 
  
  
  Numerous players reported the same bug, where the characters did the steps which lead up to 
 a "summoning" all of the requisite items were collected, and the game refuses to acknowledge bag 
 contents or to let the player continue. Because gameplay is, in many ways, linear, it is impossible 
 to finish. I tried playing the game twice, on two sepearate machine, and the result was the same. 
 At that point game progression merely stopped. 
  
  By the amount of venting regarding this particular bug, one would assume that Laran would create 
 a patch to either overcome, or bypass, the problem. One would assume wrong.
  
  If you enjoy this kind of old school dungeon crawl, go back to Diablo-it works.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  I am still just getting into Bey Div, but so far I am loving it. My main gripe is a purely technical 
 one with the extremely wonky copy protection that causes occasional very slow starts.
  
  I couldn't stop playing Divine Divinity and Beyond Divinity is proving to be just as addictive. 
 There is more depth to the Divinity games than you get out of most any other game. The graphics 
 are immersive, while not being exactly cutting edge. With the return of all kinds of movable objects 
 where there are occasionally hidden goodies, searching and exploring are even more rewarded in 
 Bey Div than ever!
  
  The battlegrounds are a fantastic and inspired addition to the game -- like a free "town portal" 
 from Diablo, but without the need for scrolls or spells.
  
  The sounds and music are all fantastic, although I am just as annoyed by the Death Knight's voice 
 and most reviewers. His voice-over on the introductory cinematic is border-line unbearable.
  
  A great game with enormous depth and re-playability. Highly recommended to anyone who enjoys 
 a good CRPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rallierf1
Rating: 1.9
Date: May 12, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  The idea of having a paladin and a death knight soulbound is probably original and nice. However 
 this ends here with the exception of the background music which is not bad. However on first sight 
 you can see that graphics are really bad as you would think they came from the early 90's (neverwinter 
 nights for example feature much better graphics) Also various stuff are hidden from the walls.
 
  controls they tried to oversimplify the controls and instead they made it completely unworkable 
 as there is not tab for your skills and you must assign all skills independantly on the your mouse 
 buttons. Also various places look like mazes which go on and on and on with no real meaning. Furthermore 
 everything is really buggy and to give you an example when you reload a few times the sound goes 
 off and you have to restart the game... trust me you will have to because the game has a knack of 
 instantly killing you (unseen traps or something special about the creatures which kill you like 
 you are a bug when they do it)
  Yet after all that i decided to still give it a chance and continue playing for divine divinity's 
 sake with the possibility of improving both the plot and the gameplay which was quite boring for 
 the first few hours.
  However the killer blow is trading, make one small mistake and you are done for it... If you decide 
 to play it never press enter while trading because if you press it at the wrong time everything 
 could be traded with no money, that's what happened to me. Really i was loaded with stuff and traded 
 them all for nothing. That was so frustrating that i uninstalled the game and made my cd's frisbies 
 and watched them fly.
  It is not worth buying... heck not even downloading it's a complete waste of time and money. Stick 
 with your divine divinity memories (which was a great game) and do not try this abomination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vorcoth
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 30, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  As it stands, this game is a horrible waste of time.
  
  Gameplay Positives:
  Like most RPG's, you get a good mix of choices at character creation. i. e. Fighter-focused, Mage-focused, 
 or Thief-focused, and can then allocate your attribute points how you want them. The game has an 
 interesting sklil tree as well as you go up in levels.
  
  I like that they give you the choice to play either a male or female character, and you can even 
 customize a few details like hair colour and such.
  
  Gameplay Negatives:
  Been there, done that..... with much better graphics, sound, storyline, voice acting, and so on... and 
 so on.
  
  Graphics Positivies:
  Um.... nice colours....?
  
  Graphics Negatives:
  The game is very close to being a 2D side-scroller. These are the kind of graphics that would have 
 shocked and awed people.... in the 80's
  
  Sound Positives:
  The fact that they even bothered to try and incorporate music and voice actiing gets them merit 
 points The ambient sounds and sound effects are adequate.
  
  Sound Negatives:
  The music is so minimal and poorly done that it's pretty much ignorable, and the voice acting is 
 so over-acted that it's practically cartoonish.
  
  Value Positives:
  Like I said earlier, when this game came out it may have served as good filler until the much better 
 RPG's were released a few months later.
  
  Value Negatives:
  Unfortunately, when this game was released, there were still many older RPG's that were much better 
 and more worth playing than this crap.
  
  My Tilt:
  This game is garbage. Don't waste your money. Hell, don't even waste your time playing a copy of 
 it that you may have received for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 6, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  In the introduction of the game manual, Larian Studios states that they took a risk in creating 
 a sequel to Divine Divinity where they tried out some new things. In short, they failed.
  
  Beyond Divinity is a flawed sequel to the original game which I found to be very enjoyable. If 
 you are a hard-core fan of the RPG genre or greatly enjoyed the first game, you may find some enjoyment 
 from BD. If not, I would pass it by for something else.
  
  I believe many of the problems in this sequel stem from the significant shift in gameplay by changing 
 from a single player to a party based system. There are a lot of games out there (Baldur's Gate 
 being the perfect example) that accomplish a party based system very well. So, it's all the more 
 unfortunate that Larian couldn't get it completely right were a number of other companies have. 
 This party based system makes for a rather awkward interface. The combat is still relatively fast 
 paced, but now you have multiple characters to control. Getting a particular character to do what 
 you want isn't as easy as you'd hope. Each character gets a primary and a secondary attack. Normally, 
 you attack with all your characters selected which means that either they all use their primary 
 attacks or they all use their secondary attacks. There's also the little problem in that if your 
 main character gets attacked, he just sits there without fighting back. You can set your characters 
 to be "Aggressive" but it's diabled for the main character you have selected. I believe that's 
 a big mistake.
  
  The inventory system is also rather complicated. Each character has a separate inventory, but it 
 is divided into six different categories so if you're looking for something, you have to click 
 through the different catgories on each character. Also, you have to right click, select "Give 
 To..." and select another character to transfer things from one character to another. No click 
 and drag.
  
  The game also has plenty of bugs and that's saying a lot from me since I'm playing several months 
 and numerous patches after the release. Oh, and I don't think lockpicking works. I never came across 
 a single lock that I could pick. There's a number of things that aren't bugs but things that could 
 have been mentioned for those who've played Divine Divinity. One is that all the mushrooms lying 
 around the world don't do anything anymore. I had to go looking on the forums to figure out why 
 I couldn't make potions from them. Second is that there is no charms skill. If an item supports 
 a number of charms, then you don't have to do anything to put the charms in. Unfortunately, the 
 default appearence of a hole has an "X" over it instead of being open. This is what was used in 
 the original to indicate your skill wasn't high enough. I again had to go the forums to figure 
 out why I couldn't use charms.
  
  The skill system is also not terribly exciting. Instead of having a bunch of cool and specific 
 skills to learn, Larian has taken some of the mystery out of the skills by making them uber-configurable. 
 Instead of a "fire dart" spell or a "stoneskin" spell, you can now create custom spells for things 
 like "missile spell/4 points fire/2 points water". Also, there's really no reason to fret over 
 using your skill points as any careful RPGer would do, because any skill can be unlearned and your 
 points returned to the pool.
  
  Perhaps the worst part of the game are the battlefields. Larian says they were adding to make it 
 easier for people who couldn't otherwise finish the game. The are actually dungeons full of mindless 
 combat. And they are not randomly generated in the game as the game information would suggest. 
 There is one battlefield per Act and 3 to 6 dungeons per battlefield. Once you've cleaned them 
 all out, you're done. If you're like me, you'll want to go through each and everyone one of them. 
 Doing so will likely mean you spend as much or more time in the battlefields than on the rest of 
 them game. If the battlefields had instead been infinitely regenerating and random, then I would 
 probably have just fought through a couple and moved on.
  
  One bright point that must be mentioned though is the music. Just as in the first game, the music 
 in BD is outstanding. It's interesting and unique and adds to the ambiance of the game. It's too 
 bad that the music would just stop playing after a while in the game until you returned to the 
 main menu.
  
  The game is also more linear and less interesting than the first game. You're basically led around 
 from one quest to get "X" item to another. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  I was a massive fan of the first gane in this series. Divine Divinity was fantastic and I am happy 
 to say that it's sequel is looking to be just as good if not better.
  
  The first thing to grasp about this game is that it is huge and will take some time to beat. There 
 is just way too much going on in the world and so much of it to see that you are going to be here 
 for a while.
  
  An interesting point in the game is that you have a companion as well this time. He is a bit of 
 a bad person but is somehow tied to you and follows you arround everywhere. He does however, help 
 in the battles.
  
  Gameplay wise, it is very similar to the original but that is not a bad thing. It all seems to 
 hang together very well and plays like a dream. The interface is clean and well laid out and the 
 general feel of the graphics and sound is good.
  
  This game is definitely one to collect and play, you should have some fun times in there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lowercaseF
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 25, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Divine Divinity was a great game, to bad this didn't live up to its predecessor. Though it is fun 
 and new some of the enemies are misplaced throughout the world. This game might be good if you 
 don't mind the tons of bugs and other problems but otherwise your better off going with the first 
 Divine Divinity. Now don't get me wrong it's a great game but it just wont live up to Divine Divinity 
 for those who loved the first one. It is a god game but it should have been tested more and a few 
 things need to be moved around like a said before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:11 am PT
Review:  Beyond Divinity is what i would describe as an action RPG, the combat is real time which is in 
 my opinion a bad idea as it often leads to manic uninteractive combat and certain death if your 
 a mage.
  
  The graphics are decent enough, its a nice blend of what appears to be 3D characters whiich are 
 somewhat detailed and nicely made 2D environments, it meshes well together and there are some nice 
 effects from spells.
  
  The sound is when things start to go wrong, I was fortunate enough to buy the soundtrack to this 
 game when i preordered long ago, the music is very nice, very fitting to the game but the voice 
 acting is truly atrocious, every line of dialogue is voiced (but theres text aswell which is what 
 it should be) . But the voices can sometimes sound like nothing you would expect from reading the 
 dialogue quickly, its like watching a film of your favourite book and the characters dont sound 
 quite right, but in this game is awful truly awful.
  
  The gameplay is pretty weak unfortunately, I mentioned how bad the combat can be, but its unforgiving 
 for new players, its a difficult game most new players when they make their characters will find 
 that they'll die.. alot! it takes abit of experience to best work out how to make your character, 
 and considering you fight your way out fo a prison in the beginning its unnecessarily harsh to 
 make it so difficult. 
  
  There are some interesting elements to begin with though, you infact control 2 characters, which 
 you can make mage, thief or warrior (i wish most RPG's would have a broader scope for character 
 creation like in arcanum, Baldurs gate and fallout) one character is straight away evil, a hell 
 knight with some rather fetching black armour and the other character is created as you see fit 
 (body type, hair, skin hue and character class) . If one character dies though both die because 
 in the game these two characters have had their souls binded to each other which sets up the storyline, 
 you have to escape sammuels castle (main evil character) and undo the curse which takes you to 
 a few places mainly dark and barren though,
  
  You will also get the chance to go to areas which are randomly generated to explore and do a few 
 quests, these are all randomly generated even the quests but its 'fed ex' quests where you fetch 
 an item and bring it back to someone, very limited. There are more elaborate quests in the main 
 story but not much more complex.
  
  The worse blow to the gameplay though is that its rattled by bugs and errors, people have had errors 
 installing the game! its very unstable, the weight in the inventory doesnt always work, bartering 
 sometimes doesnt work and theres plethora more bugs than just the ones ive mentioned, check the 
 official forums for the game there are many many bugs.
  
  I didnt have too high a expectation for the game but i feel this game is pretty poor its infact 
 broken, ill keep an eye out for the next games in the series as I like the setting but i just hope 
 they can improve ALOT on this.
  
  WARNING CONTAINS STARFORCE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoranHalvard
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 24, 2005 9:50 am PT
Review:  First of all: this is my first review, and my English probably isn't like it should be but hey; 
 it's a review.
  
  2002's divine divinity was an amazing game, combining hack and slash and deep role-plating elements. Ever 
 since gamers have been waiting for the release of the sequel. Well let's say that the waiting is 
 over and larian has done an amazing job with such a low budget. besides if you haven't jet played 
 Larian's previous little masterpiece, no worries then because divine divinity is included with 
 the games making it an offer you can't refuse...
  
  The story: The first game intoduced that you were the divine one, the savior that should cleanse 
 the world from all demons and the like. But while fighting an evil necromancer, he draws you onto 
 one of hes magical portals, taking you to the evil world of nemesis, ruled by the arch Demon samuel. 
 you are thrown in a prison sell after you are soul forged with a death knight, one of the most 
 fearsome creatures of the world. But the death knight seems to dislike it as much as you do, so 
 you have to escape from samuel's Awful citadel and then find a way to travel to the normal world, 
 Rivellon, to find the death knights old mistress, and undo the soul forging.
  
  First of all, the gameplay: As I already mentioned Beyond divinity attempts and succeeds to combine 
 hack 'n slashing with a healthy dose of heavyweight prg elements. The skill system might seem confusing 
 at first, and there isn't a "recommended" button here like in Neverwinter Nights or Knights of 
 the old republic, but it really does a great job of giving you a lot more options then its proceder, 
 divine divinity where you had to choose frome pre-made abilities.
  
  Then the graphics: Yes, I know its unable to deny that the graphics in the game are the game's 
 largest weakness here, but on the other hand: So what? Is a game really all about graphics en visual 
 effects that make fall out of your computer chair? No and definetly not for an rpg! you can zoom 
 in but the textures will get highly pixled and it's just to difficult to play zoomed in, altough 
 it will help you seperate items better because when there are several items on the ground they 
 will all have this "labels" on them like the ones seen in dungeon siege... only here you cant turn 
 them of wich can be quite confusing in the beginning.
  
  Sound: Sound is probably the best part of the game. the voice over vary from good to downright 
 bad. the death knight's voice is veeeery irritating in the beginning but you will get used to it.. after 
 a certain amount of time. but the combat effects are quite good and the music is nothing else then 
 brilliant. Every time I turned up the music volume ant felt like I was really there. The sound 
 definetly makes up for the graphics.
  
  Finally the value: The game itself (beyond divinity) will take you up to 40 hours to complete. 
 But a real role-player who does a lot of side quest (wich is actually necessary since the game 
 is Hard.) can easily take it up 60 hours! Plus divine divinity is included in the box.... well do 
 i need to say more? if you are looking for a deep and compelling rpg you don't need to look any 
 further, and get yourself a copy of Beyond Divinity! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asche
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 29, 2005 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I haven't actually finished this game yet, but I'm not sure that I will so I figured I might as 
 well review it now. I really liked Divine Divinity, the previous game, and this game is really 
 not a bad game either. Its just that, well, I'm bored. Maybe I've just played too many RPGs, and 
 since there is nothing new here really, there is not much to hold my interest.
  
  It's not the graphics, which are pretty well the same as Divine DIvinity's, which where nothing 
 to write home about. It's not the fact that the game functions just like Diablo. Its the actual 
 gameplay I have a hard time with.
  
  First, the new party system. It feels a bit cumbersome and is hard to get used to. You can't set 
 up hotkeys the way I would like to. You can set up potion keys and theres room for a few spells 
 but in total you are limited to 7, and they apply to both characters, which means that if your 
 characters have two completely different skill sets your hotkeys are further reduced. I found it 
 pointless to bother using magic at all, because when ever I tried to switch my primary or secondary 
 skill for one character the other character's changed as well, which is really a pain in the a$$. 
 So I've stuck to high grade weapons on primary attack at all times, which doesn't make for much 
 variety.
  
  Second, the battlefields. While this seems like a really cool idea at first, I found it somewhat 
 aggravating that it was outside the main story line. Now I'm all about the side quests. I love 
 them. I can't live without them and in fact won't play an RPG that doesn't have any. But this, 
 this is not really fun. The quests are your garden variety kill-n-fetch missions. And they occur 
 "outside" the actual game world where the main story takes place, so it doesn't feel like exploring 
 deeper into the world at all. It's more like a long (and tedious) interruption. Its a good thing 
 to have if you need to gain some levels but by the time I was settling into act 2 I was at level 
 20! The game by this point was so easy that I had to turn up the difficulty. It's still a bit easy 
 actually, but now I don't really want to take that step up to the hardest level because frankly 
 I don't want it to take twice as long to get through the battlefields. And am I going to be like, 
 level 50 by the time I finish the game?
  
  Lastly, trading. There's not anything actually wrong here (except that if you press enter sometimes 
 without balancing the gold you sell all your stuff for nothing... eep!) . Its just that I think I 
 spent more time trading that I did playing. You get so much stuff that you have to head to the 
 battlefields every half an hour to dump it, and yu have to run around to every merchant because 
 none of them can afford to by ALL your stuff. I guess you could just not pick it up at all, but 
 really who does that?!? Haha. And again, by the second act I was getting the highest level charms 
 from some merchants, making me wonder what would be left to enjoy about trading by the end of the 
 game.
  
  So what else can I say. I'm only in act 2 and pretty bored, but to be truthful I don't dislike 
 the game. Its kind of a quirky little thing from a small outfit that has a sort of indie feel to 
 it. When you consider how small the budget probably was they really didn't do a bad job. It's a 
 long game, I'm sure there's many hours of game time to be had form it. I'll probably get back to 
 it at some point. But I am quite disappointed. I really loved Divine Divinity. It was a great game 
 that was underappreciated. This one though has too many flaws to go down as a classic no one played. 
 Too bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snide
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2004 9:45 pm PT
Review:  For many RPG fans Divine Divinity was that great sleeper hit with the funny name. Released to little 
 fanfare it may have been behind the times graphically, but the gameplay was spot on, and more important, 
 the game was really fun. Its story, while contrived, at least had some fun little moments that 
 let you roam as you liked around fleshed out and populated towns.
  
  The sequel, "Beyond Divinity", has a less outragous name, but that is where the improvement ends. 
 I don't know how they did it, but the graphics, especially in terms of interface, have actually 
 gotten worse. The interface and corrisponding control have been completely butchered. "Beyond" 
 also drops the detailed 2d sprite based characters for absolutely hideous blocky 3d replacements. 
 Not only are they poorly constructed low poly models with awful textures, but against the colorful 
 2d backdrops they stand out like a sore thumb.
  
  The bitterness doesn't end here though, as "Beyond" has become a party based game. Now I'm a D&D 
 fan, especially of the infinity engine Bioware gams, so party based RPGs are normally my cup of 
 tea, but man did they mess it up. Switching between characters is a complete pain in the ***, so 
 you end up really just using one char and having the other sit back. Your party of two is comprised 
 of your choosen class char and a mysterious figure known only as the "Death Knight". Sounds cool 
 huh? DEATH KNIGHT, destroyer of worlds or something. In reality he's a super annoying char that 
 constantly whines and ****** in the worst voice this side of a Resident Evil game. Now this isn't 
 exactly Bioware so I know I shouldn't expect great voice work, but the fact that they actually 
 changed the voice of the death knight after the demo released is just hilarious. There's been a 
 lot of debate on the boards about the Death Knight's voice and there are even some user made patches 
 that take parellel strides to improve it, but really it's not so much the voice as the dialouge. 
 The guy is full of cliches.
  
  Anyways, I never finished the game, I got far enough to know it wasn't going to get any better. 
 Probably around 18 hours or so in. While I hate not completing games, "Beyond" ended up being anything 
 but. If you're looking for a great RPG in this style, just pick up the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeyondZork
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 11, 2004 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Ouch. Games are supposed to be "fun." This is a pain in the ass. I played Divine Divinity, and 
 while I wasn't enamored with it, I can say it was fairly enjoyable, and easy to play. This is why 
 I was looking forward to Beyond Divinity. I've played a ton of PC games, including many RPGs. Sometimes, 
 I'm not very impressed with the initial presentation. However, I always give them a chance, play 
 through the first few hours and see if they come around. Well, I installed BD, created a character, 
 and set off. Within 15 minutes, it was time to uninstall. While it promised many similar features 
 found in the first game, and while it also promised several new additions, I just couldn't bring 
 myself to hang in there. No amount of content, storyline, or choice of skill trees can save a bad 
 interface. And that's what we have here; just a pain in the ass, cumbersome, choppy interface and 
 gameplay, to me it's just not FUN. Who gives a hoot if you're a level 45 survivor/wizard with killer 
 weapons and tons of armor if you had to sit through and endure a pixel hunting, drag and click 
 marathon with a choppy, jerky mouse-scroll screen. In most 2D games that have a pan feature, time 
 is taken to make this a smooth experience. Unfortunately, BD failed here. When you move your mouse 
 to the edge of the screen, you immediately zoom off in that direction, and when you come back from 
 the edge, it's a sudden stop. This is very fatiguing on the eyes. You CAN hold the left mouse button 
 and move to direct your running companions, but in actual play this just isn't always the preferred 
 feature; many times you'll need to scroll the screen. Also, the hot keys and interface are just 
 rather poorly designed. Combining this with random, flat, carboard cut out 2D backgrounds, this 
 game fails to entertain me in any way, I could "play" it, but it wouldn't be any "fun," it would 
 be work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 30, 2004 11:12 am PT
Review:  I like Larian studios because they are a small-time studio that gets no PR, so its not real easy 
 to write this mediocre review for this game. I loved Divine Divinity and I gave it and 8.8 score. 
 I wanted to love Beyond Divinity too, but Im disappointed. The game is still solid and it can 
 tide you over for a long time, but the game never really pulls you in and captivates you. I think 
 that the key to making a successful follow-up game is to figure out what was great in the previous 
 game, carry it over, and then add good new features. I give Larian a B- here. This game lacks the 
 epic feel and attention to detail that made Divine Divinity great, and it suffers because of it.
 
  
  The game starts off with an interesting premise  you are soulforged to an evil Death Knight  
 somebody who should be your mortal enemy. The Death Knight is your unwilling companion until you 
 can undue this curse. Unfortunately, nothing interesting besides that ever really develops. You 
 spend the game trying to undue the curse, but the game is just straightforward and lacking interesting 
 twists or turns. There arent any interesting side stories in the game either. The Death Knight 
 does have a lot of funny dialog, but his voice sounds horrible. The voice actor who does the voice 
 sounds exactly like Serious Sam. Imagine Serious Sam yelling at you YOU HAVE NO BRAINS  HUMAN!!!, 
 and that should give you a feel for how comical the Death Knight sounds. Most of the voice work 
 is bad, and the game ends up being unintentionally funny sometimes, because of this.
  
  The game doesnt have many interesting quests or areas to explore either. So many quests in the 
 game are simple fetch this necklace being guarded by this monster types. Half of the tasks in 
 the game require you just travel a few inches on the screen and enter some small cave to complete. 
 
  
  
  This game uses the same top-down 2D engine as Divine Divinity, but with 3D characters and monsters. 
 The 3D parts look really good but the backgrounds are drab and boring. About half of the game takes 
 place underground or indoors, in grey caves, dark dungeons, or other installations. Most of the 
 outdoor areas take place on one big drab world called Nemesis. This world is decorated with thousands 
 of burnt trees and rocks, and lots of dirt. Spell effects look really good though. Overall, I would 
 have to say that Beyond Divinity is an average looking game. The same can be said of the game's 
 audio, which would be bad if it wasn't for the musical score.
  
  The games role-playing system is very innovative and interesting. This system can be overwhelming 
 at first, but once you get used to it, you will probably like it. This system allows for all sorts 
 of interesting choices and customizations. There are literally millions of different ways to build 
 a character in this game. Between the two main characters and the summoning dolls, you can do a 
 lot of things, and then play the game totally different the next time through. This innovative 
 system, however, comes with some drawbacks. Mainly that it has a lot of useless abilities, and 
 since it encourages min/maxing, you wont be able to experience as many skills as you would like. 
 
  
  This game could have used a lot more polish. Divine Divinity got all the little things right, whereas 
 Beyond Divinity gets so many of them wrong. The biggest culprit here is the interface. It is missing 
 so many little features that its impossible to list them all. Chief among them is the ability 
 to bind hotkeys to your weapons. This ability was mysteriously omitted from this game. Thats why 
 switching weapons becomes a tedious chore after you have done it a few times.
  
  But by far the biggest flop in this game is the feature called The Battlefields. During the game, 
 you can unlock these areas, and then just magically teleport to them at will. These areas are alternate 
 dimensions where a small camp of merchants is just sitting there, waiting to give you randomly-generated 
 fetch quests. Then, you go off into bland, repetitive, randomly-generated dungeons to find extremely 
 inane items. The Battlefields have absolutely no reason for being in the game and seem like they 
 are just a cheap way of padding the games length without creating any quality content.. None of 
 them are interesting to visit or play through. These boring and inane dungeon crawl areas represent 
 the worst that the Divinity series has to offer and youll probably feel cheated by them.
  
  Beyond Divinity is a very long game, and since Divine Divinity comes in the box, you are getting 
 a deal of exceptional value. Divine Divinity was an excellent game in its own right  that part 
 of it is worth almost half the purchase price. Ill give Beyond Divinity credit for being a unique 
 game in many ways, but its often dull and unrewarding too. I recommend playing it, but only because 
 the PC has so few good RPGs out there right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdhas
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2004 11:14 am PT
Review:  I am still just getting into Bey Div, but so far I am loving it. My main gripe is a purely technical 
 one with the extremely wonky copy protection that causes occasional very slow starts.
  
  I couldn't stop playing Divine Divinity and Beyond Divinity is proving to be just as addictive. 
 There is more depth to the Divinity games than you get out of most any other game. The graphics 
 are immersive, while not being exactly cutting edge. With the return of all kinds of moveable objects 
 where there are occasionaly hidden goodies, searching and exploring are even more rewarded in Bey 
 Div than ever!
  
  The battlegrounds are a fantastic and inspired addition to the game -- like a free "town portal" 
 from Diablo, but without the need for scrolls or spells.
  
  The sounds and music are all fantastic, although I am just as annoyed by the Death Knight's voice 
 and most reviewers. His voiceover on the introductory cinematic is border-line unbearable.
  
  A great game with enormous depth and replayability. Highly recommended to anyone who enjoyes 
 a good CRPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stegma
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 26, 2004 10:03 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because I am... a hard core Diablo fan. Now this game was said to be a close 
 resemblence. Well, I hardly think so. 
  
  Graphics were fine, actualy fairly good. I dont realy have much of a problem there. Sound tho, 
 for one the voice acting is horrible. It just sounds like a kid was in charge of casting these 
 voices. (that explains that)
  
  The most important thing here is... the gameplay. 
  I think the one thing I realy had a problem with was control over the characters actions. I feel 
 like I dont have that. In Diablo, you clicked, and he swung the sword. Here you click and he attacks 
 the creature with systematic strikes that are like on some timer. Obviously this had to be done 
 because there is more than one character to be controlled. Not only do I now feel like i have less 
 control over my one character, I now have to switch from one to the other in order to get them 
 doing what i need to do. 
  
  This is the worst concept I could ever think of. Games that have this feature bug me a lot. If 
 you are that type of person, I dont recomend this game. 
  
  All in all, the game is ok, but this obviously isnt my kind of game for only the one feature. I 
 dislike it that much, yes. Call me a control freak, I just like to have it in a game.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
