-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Beyond Good & Evil
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/beyondgoodevil/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 25, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.3, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 1,970 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montpellie
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 19, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While the game feels pretty short, its interesting premise and impressive presentation pick up the 
 slack and make Beyond Good & Evil a game well worth playing. 

  Beyond Good &amp; Evil is an action adventure game from Michel Ancel, the man credited with the 
 creation of the highly acclaimed Rayman series. This time out, Ancel is shelving his platform-genre 
 roots in favor of a console-style action adventure game with a heavy focus on puzzle-solving and 
 stealth. While Beyond Good &amp; Evil feels pretty short, its interesting premise and impressive 
 presentation pick up the slack and make it a game well worth playing.  

          Jade wants the truth. But can she handle the truth?     

  Beyond Good &amp; Evil puts 
 you in the role of Jade, a young woman who, along with her humanoid pig uncle, Pey'j, runs a lighthouse 
 on the planet Hillys. Hillys is at war with an alien force known as the DomZ, and an elite squadron 
 known as the Alpha Sections protects Hillys from the alien threat. Or does it? An underground rebel 
 organization known as the IRIS Network charges that the Alphas control both sides of the equation. 
 IRIS is essentially a rogue news network, informing the people via a newsletter that strives to 
 expose the link between Hillys' protectors and the alien menace. That's where Jade, a photographer-for-hire 
 when not tending to the lighthouse, comes in. You quickly hook up with IRIS and spend the bulk 
 of the game infiltrating Alpha strongholds, camera at your side, in search of the truth.  

  But you won't go at it alone. The game gives you a companion most of the time, and many puzzles 
 will require you to get your associate to do things. Only one contextual button is used to command 
 your companion, so it's usually pretty easy to get him to act. The AI of your partner is usually 
 pretty good, but we occasionally had to backtrack to get him unstuck from walls or railings.  

 
  Most of the game's interior sections have you out, on foot, and in search of photographic evidence. 
 You're looking for specific pictures, and the areas of interest are marked on your map. The game 
 does have combat, but it's a fairly straightforward system that suffices without excelling. The 
 real meat of the gameplay comes from its puzzle-solving, though there's a little too much repetition 
 in the puzzles, which can make some sections of the game feel pretty tedious. Almost every room 
 will require you to do a little thinking. Sometimes it's as easy as using your projectile attack 
 to push a button on the other side of a force field. Sometimes you'll have to find fuses in other 
 parts of an installation to power elevators or other equipment. Sometimes you'll have to learn 
 a password to proceed into a locked area. And there's a whole lot of sneaking around.  

  In Beyond Good &amp; Evil, stealth is treated much like the rest of the game's puzzles. You simply 
 want to get to the next room, but patrolling guards are in the way. So you'll either have to avoid 
 detection by staying out of sight or incapacitate the guards by blinding them with a well-placed 
 shot to the tank on their backs. A guard can repair another guard's faulty tank, so in rooms with 
 multiple guards, you'll have to either be a fast shot or find a quieter way through. Nonlethal 
 stealth is quickly becoming one of those "love it or hate it" gameplay elements, and while the 
 stealth in BG&amp; E is handled well, there's enough of it to turn off people who don't care for 
 it.  

  Running around dark corridors isn't the only thing you'll do in Beyond Good &amp; Evil. The game's 
 10- to 15-hour quest also has you piloting a hovercraft, which is your primary mode of transport 
 on Hillys. The craft can shoot, and you'll upgrade it over time to fire more powerful blasts, as 
 well as give it the ability to jump. Upgrading your hovercraft requires you to spend pearls at 
 an upgrade shop. Pearls are fairly rare on Hillys, and you'll get them in various ways, such as 
 by defeating bosses or by purchasing them from seedy merchants using credits, the game's main currency. 
 You earn credits by defeating enemies, but you can also find them in crates or earn them by taking 
 photos of the different life-forms in the game and mailing them to a scientist who is trying to 
 catalog all of the life on Hillys. The game controls quite well with a mouse and keyboard, using 
 fairly standard third-person action game controls that are, of course, fully configurable.  

  While the game behind the presentation is pretty good on its own, the entire package benefits 
 from some pretty stellar audio and video. The game is graphically impressive. The world of Hillys 
 is beautifully rendered. It's large and atmospheric, and the outdoor segments show off some nice-looking 
 water. The interior of the buildings you'll be infiltrating are appropriately dark and intimidating, 
 with a hefty dose of effective lighting. The game's shadows usually look great, as well, though 
 we noticed a couple of instances of shadows being unnaturally cast on walls and ceilings. It's 
 a minor point, for sure, but given how amazing the rest of the game looks, little things like that 
 tend to stick out. While the console versions of the game look outstanding in their own right, 
 the PC version definitely has a sharper, cleaner look to it. The water effects, well-placed blur 
 effects, reflections, textures, and models really jump off the screen.  

          Beyond Good &amp; Evil contains quite a bit of stealth-styled gameplay.     

  An easy 
 way to suck some of the immersion out of a game is with wooden, generic animation and character 
 models. But the animation and character models are perhaps Beyond Good &amp; Evil's strongest aspect. 
 The game's story gets emotional in spots, and you can see Jade emoting very effectively throughout 
 the game. She'll jump for joy after a victory, you'll see worry wash across her face as the plot 
 thickens, and she'll carry a determined look in her eye as she sneaks through an enemy-packed room. 
 The other characters aren't quite as defined as Jade, but they all look great on their own.  

 
  Quality voice acting really drives the point home, and here, too, BG&amp; E excels. The voice cast 
 is, for the most part, great, and the various voices match up with their characters very well. 
 The game's music also does a great job of setting the tone, particularly some of the alien-sounding 
 songs that can be heard while in and around town. The tunes have a unique sound to them that helps 
 paint the picture of Hillys as an exotic place. The ambient sound and game sound effects also add 
 to the mix. As your reports hit the streets, more and more of the populace will come around to 
 IRIS' way of thinking, so you'll overhear protestors and other pedestrians talking about the situation. 
 It's a small detail, but it's one that definitely makes the world feel much more alive.  

  While the game's repetitive nature and short length take away from its overall impact, Beyond Good 
 &amp; Evil is a fantastic-looking game that tells its story well. It may be short enough to complete 
 in a day or two, but fans of action adventure games will find enough to love in the game's overall 
 design to make it worth purchasing.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (77 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TheBatFreak777
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2009 2:53 am PT
Review:  This game has a really pretty look and feel to it even though, in the end, it is fairly short. 
 Yet, it's one of those games you should play particularly since a sequel is coming.
  
  Personally, I think the soundtrack was one of the best parts of the game. They really did a nice 
 job and some of the tunes actually "stick with you" when you're not playing. That's pretty impressive 
 that the music stands out that much.
  
  Graphically the game is pretty smooth and has a really fun feel to it. Being fairly cartoony makes 
 for a lighter feeling game but this does not give way to a game that you don't want to play. Instead, 
 the way it is done actually enhances the game in this case.
  
  For the most part this game is quite fun though you'll definitely find yourself playing some of 
 the pieces more than once. Fortunately, they never put you in a position that is too far away from 
 the place you might have died. This is a really nice bonus as I just can't stand games where you 
 get SO far and then at the last point you die and then have to start all over again. That really 
 sucks.
  
  I picked this one up because I'm already curious about the sequel so I wanted to see how this one 
 played. I really enjoyed it though it's pretty short. You can easily finish it in 10-12 hours no 
 problem. This makes for an easy weekend game to burn through but it's short enough you find yourself 
 forgetting some parts it moves so fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happybara
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 2:21 pm PT
Review:  one day, i turned on my laptop to play garrysmod... but and lo and behold- an ad from steam was 
 there staring at me. i normally cose them, but this one looked interesting, it said: ubisoft classic 
 pack... $9.99! i mainly waanted farcry and dark messiah, (and i sorta wanted to try il- sturmovik 
 :) ) but this one really stands out. its a nice change of pace, its fun, nice graphics, its fun, 
 and did i mention that it is VERY VERY VERY FUN??? well... yeah... ive never played game with picture 
 taking aside from gmod, so that was neat... um... i, ah... sorta ran out of things to say... soooo.... 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, MARY HAD LITTLE LAMP!!! blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, cheeseisgood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allmybase
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2009 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I realize that in doing this review in 2009, I'm around six years late to the Beyond Good & Evil 
 review party. Originally released halfway through the last console cycle, the game has most certainly 
 aged. Others have since come along and refined both the action-adventure genre itself and the storytelling 
 methods employed by the video game industry in general. The aging process itself, however, proves 
 to be unconventional, much like the game itself in its obscure heyday. It's still a solid game 
 and worth a purchase if you can look past its faults, but how much enjoyment you ultimately derive 
 from it is akin to opening a time capsule. Beyond Good & Evil is very much so a game which belongs 
 in a different time period and a different atmosphere in general, for better or worse. If it happens 
 to be your first time, be prepared to dive in cautiously and skeptically.
  
  You play the game as Jade, a photo journalist on a planet with war and Big Brother-esque supervision 
 a plenty. Early on in the game, you're clued in to a government conspiracy about who is really 
 allied and against whom and soon afterwards, you join an underground political organization known 
 as the Iris Network, tasked with taking pictures which prove the conspiracy. This is the real crux 
 of the game, as the majority of your time is spent travelling to different locales on various assignments 
 with the intention of having your findings published. Like all good conspiracies, this one penetrates 
 the government deeply, so the further along the plot you are, the more you come across sensitive 
 information that the enemy would rather not have revealed. It makes for an interesting setup and 
 does a good job at providing some immersion into the story.
  
  With that said, the photography portion of the gameplay is extremely simplistic and straightforward. 
 You use a map which conveniently points out the damning locations you need to photograph and then 
 within a few button presses, you take a picture and upload it back to the Iris Network. It's essentially 
 a matter of rinsing, lathering, and repeating after you learn it. Thankfully, you also get to use 
 your camera for some other tasks, too. Sometimes there's an electronic lock whose picture needs 
 to be sent in order to get a code, a procedure which doesn't differentiate from that which has 
 been outlined already, save for what you're needing to depict. You can also take pictures of the 
 planet's wildlife and sentient inhabitants for an archive willing to pay you for the tangential 
 efforts; this turns out to be one of your most major sources of income in the game. Nonetheless, 
 your main concern is the political photographs and while you do take plenty of them, the intervals 
 between each one are thankfully spaced out enough where it doesn't become tedious.
  
  More often than not, though, when you're trespassing government facilities, you're playing the 
 other main half of the game: stealth and combat. Like the photography portion, these aspects are 
 also hardly complex, although this is more to a fault than anything else. The game throws a lot 
 of guards and other enemies for you to get past, but the unfortunate thing is that none of the 
 gameplay here is sufficiently fleshed out enough to make any one way consistently viable. Sneaking 
 around can at times be an exercise in sheer frustration since you're basically limited to crouching 
 and nothing else, making the emphasis on timing borderline excessive. Furthermore, if you get caught 
 and end up in a combat situation, there's almost nothing to the fighting itself. You more or less 
 hit the same button for the entire time, with an occasional dodge thrown in to boot. That works 
 fine for conventional enemies since it's fairly hard to die because of them, but guards are an 
 arduous lot to deal with. There's a specific strategy you need to employ in such instances, but 
 the game leaves it entirely up to you to figure out, as you're only trained on how to incapicitate 
 them before they catch you. This is assuming that you can also fight them in the first place; sometimes 
 the game throws turrets at you which will kill Jade in one hit if she's detected. Until you manage 
 to figure it all out by almost sheer accident, chances are that you may be very eager to have Jade 
 perish just so you can reload back to a safe point and try sneaking again. While the game never 
 presents the fighting as one of its fortes, the fact that it appears so often makes it readily 
 apparent that it could have used more development in order to at least avoid being an annoyance.
 
  
  Naturally, as with most games of its genre, Beyond Good & Evil has some puzzles for you to tinker 
 with for the duration of the game. While never being particularly hard, the settings and abilities 
 of the characters you partner with at least show that Ubisoft went to some effort to not make the 
 puzzles completely derivative. Nonetheless, when considering how Jade's real life counterparts 
 often have to go through elaborate hoops to do their job properly, it's still disappointing that 
 there isn't at least some challenge present during those times as well.
  
  What Beyond Good & Evil does do well, however, is a set a specific tone that complements the time 
 in which it was released released. While the plot and characterization portions of the game leave 
 something to be desired, the game still succeeds at creating a living, breathing world trying to 
 not break from the oppression within it. When you walk the streets of the city, for example, you'll 
 hear references to your own escapades in news flashes and also witness gradually enlarging protests 
 as the citzens become more and more informed. There is also something to be said for the way in 
 which the game depicts Jade's role as a photojournalist, forced to take objectionable pictures 
 without interfering, a moral quandary which is occasionally commented upon after specific moments. 
 It sets a mood that, while not perfectly implemented, does manage to lead you to be contemplative 
 at times. Unfortunately, the game world itself is really small, leaving any desires to do some 
 serious exploration outside of the few frequented locales to go unfulfilled.
  
  From a technical standpoint, Beyond Good & Evil is definitely a game from 2003. The visuals, while 
 still competent-looking and stylish, aren't particularly mind-blowing either. Likewise, the soundtrack 
 is well-composed with pieces that often set the mood appropriately, but they never especially go 
 out of their way to really move you. The sound design also falls into that same classification. 
 If there is one quirk which should be pointed out, however, it's that the controls in the PC version 
 aren't the most intuitive. While it's easy enough to adapt to them, the sometimes wonky camera 
 control assigned to the mouse, coupled with a bizarre keyboard and mouse button-only menu navigation 
 system, make the game feel as though it wasn't especially designed with the platform in mind. Nothing 
 is broken, but there are certainly some precedents from the game's own genre off which it might 
 have greatly benefitted from cribbing.
  
  In the end, it all comes to down to context. If you can go into Beyond Good & Evil with an understanding 
 that both the gameplay and thematic commentary belong to an era which passed six years ago, then 
 you'll be able to appreciate the game for what it is: a thoughtful, if nowadays underwhelming work. 
 However, if you can't see yourself getting past the dated mechanics and Bush administration-derived 
 political undertones, then you can safely pass it. Beyond Good & Evil doesn't have its pedigree 
 without reason, but the reality is that seeing it for yourself as a first-timer today has the potential 
 to be a difficult task. It's certainly possible, but the world, both in reality and in games, has 
 changed a lot since then and Beyond Good & Evil is hardly reflective of the times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molokoplus
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 28, 2009 9:12 pm PT
Review:  If it weren't for the maddening, clunky, and unintuitive controls this would be an excellent game. 
 I really enjoy the characters, the story, and the cartoonish feel of the whole thing. I like the 
 exploring and the puzzles. But in order to really delve into this game you need to be able to control 
 your character. Well, maybe it's just me, but it seems as though this game was designed to torture 
 people.
  There are parts of this game where your character has a mind of her own and will mock any attempts 
 on your part to exert your will. This is due to the fact that the camera control utterly fails 
 in this game. So depending on what direction your character might be facing, you'll need to use 
 the "A, S, or D" key to move forward. Or you might have to crouch to sneak past an enemy only to 
 have your view completely blocked by your own head. 
  Despite these forays into complete anguish I soldiered on, thoroughly enjoying those parts of the 
 game that didn't force your brain to scream curse words into your impassive monitor.
  Finally I reached a point where you had to run to reach safety with enemies close on your heel. 
 The kicker is, the key to successfully making this harrowing escape is to avoid sensors along your 
 path. Well, due to the lack of any coherent camera control you have to run using the S key with 
 the camera in front of your character, facing you. This means you can see where you've been but 
 not where you are going, and hence you can't avoid the sensors.
  That was the last straw for me and I gave up playing the game. I just don't have extra time in 
 my life to make myself fed up. Now I'm sure one might get used to the controls and the camera and 
 have a perfectly blissful time with this charming and engrossing game, but for me, I've got better 
 things to do than struggle to overcome needless frustration. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 8:04 am PT
Review:  I bought the game over steam. It can be purchased for pretty cheap through it and the convenience 
 of not having any CDs crowding up your desk is really hard to beat.
  
  Beyond Good and Evil is one of those games that, most of all, stands out for its peculiar yet immersive 
 story. I won't go into detail and let you unwrap it by yourself, but its defenetly engaging and 
 really shows where all the work was done. A huge amount of games these days are just lacking that 
 aspect and this title is a clear reminder of what makes a game better than another.
  
  Another prime aspect of the game are its characters. Pey'j, Jade, Agent HH, are all unique and 
 entertaining. Most of all they are believable, also thanks to the great voice overs.
  
  Yet, there are two major flaws in the game. The annoying camera issues and the frustrating checkpoint 
 system.
  
  Often the camera zooms right into the characters face while sneaking around or in the middle of 
 combat. Other times its aimed so low its hard to see where your going while driving or racing.
 
  
  The checkpoint system can get frustrating too. Some areas of the game are harder to get past and 
 dieing happens often in those. Respawning three areas back surely doesn't help with the flow of 
 the game and frustration can really make a game that much worse.
  
  Overall, the game is a nice change of pace from the nothing-but eyecandy games of today. This title 
 is immersive, entertaining, humorous and above all really fun to play. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eajack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Beyond Good & Evil is one of the best games I've ever played. I remember it well, because it was 
 the year I played this and Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time, another of my all time favorites.
 
  
  BG&E defied being easily classified. You didn't shoot things with a gun, you used a camera. The 
 main character, Jade, was a person you came to care for, and had a wonderful personality. Not just 
 some big-boobed bimbo babe (tm) like so many other games with female leads have. Supporting characters 
 did not let you down either.
  
  The story is exciting, and set in a fantastic sci-fi setting. From the opening cinematics, you 
 are thrust into the action seamlessly. Several action sequences throughout the game have you on 
 the edge of your seat. One that still sticks in my mind is a rooftop escape that I had to play 
 over and over just because I loved it so much.
  
  Do yourself a favor. If you haven't played this game, go find a copy somewhere and play it! With 
 the rumored release of a sequel this year, I'm tempted to go back and play this one again myself. 
 And playing games over again is something I never do!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  The Good: Wonderful and charming story, voice acting, and art style, simple yet engaging stealth, 
 taking pictures is always fun
  
  The Bad: Wonky camera, stale combat, a bit short, navigating the game is a pain, finding everything 
 in the world is a bigger pain
  
  Beyond Good & Evil... yes I remember that, but for some reason a certain game called Prince of Persia: 
 The Sands of Time was plastered all over TV and stores and B&E was, disappointingly overshadowed. 
 B&E is a lovely and wonderful action/adventure game that was release during the peak of the last 
 generation: 2003. B&E's premise is something along these lines: You are Jade who is a caretaker 
 of an orphanage on a futuristic (has a Star Wars feel to it) planet called Hillys. The Alpha Section 
 are fighting a so called war against the alien invasion known as the Domz. Jade and her pig uncle 
 Pey'j must find out the conspiracy behind the Alpha Section and the Domz in order to bring peace 
 and freedom to the planet of Hillys. You take on a job as a reporter/spy for the IRIS Network and 
 along the way you take pictures of animals, take part in speedboat races, and play a familiar air 
 hockey game to earn pearls and credits (the game's two currencies) to find your way through the 
 world. 
  
  A lot of the game is setup around two game play elements; stealth and combat. While the stealth 
 is stronger than the combat both are enjoyable and evenly balanced throughout the game. Sneaking 
 around the two major parts of the game two take pictures of Alpha Section's activities is rewarding 
 and easy to do. Crouching around corners and learning the guards patterns is a typical element 
 in stealth, but the great part about the game is there's no jump button... yes this makes the game 
 play a lot more smoothly and you actually know what to do. If you see a ledge Jade can hop up on 
 you know to go there instead of hopping around like an idiot trying to, hopefully, find some collision 
 detection glitch and get up onto that ledge. Sneaking around the guards is also like a puzzle in 
 itself since you have to figure out a way to open certain doors, hit certain switches and even 
 get items without anyone seeing you. The stealth isn't brutal and is pretty forgiving since if 
 you run out of the area everything will calm down and go back to normal. Most guards have a weakness 
 on their backs (a yellow jet pack) so this can blind them and makes things a little easier. Sneaking 
 around the place is pretty typical and there's not much to describe, but it is very fun squeezing 
 between walls and ducking in vents and what not. Thanks to no jump button dodging lasers is really 
 fun since you have a run button and a dodge button so you just run and jump over lasers and obstacles 
 and it can be really fun. 
  
  The combat, however, is a bit weak since it's so simple. You just mash the mouse button and Jade 
 will beat the S out of everything with her magical staff; hold it down and you get a super charged 
 spinning attack. While you can dodge and roll around while running the camera is one of the major 
 flaws of the game and the combat can get so tedious and boring. Thankfully there isn't much fighting 
 and you mainly just sneak around and do a lot of traveling. The only thing that keeps the combat 
 from being a snooze fest is the unique way of having to kill certain enemies. Double H or Pey'j 
 may be with you so you can order them to do their special attack and it will stun enemies or shoot 
 them in the air. When they are in the air Jade with spin around and knock them across the room 
 and this is good for taking out certain obstacles in your way. 
  
  Traveling around the world can be fun and frustrating since the map is useless and the game is 
 very labyrinthine. Since you're sneaking around everywhere you don't really remember where you've 
 been so if you forget to take a certain picture you don't know where it was since the map is just 
 a bunch of white blobs that don't tell you where to go. Finding things like animals, pearls, and 
 other items is pointless since they are big dots on the this white useless map so hopefully you 
 have enough pearls (used only at Mammago's Garage to upgrade your speedboat) to finish the game. 
 Finding all of the animals can be almost impossible since a lot of them are in spots you never 
 knew you could even access, so earning big money in the game is a bit hard and can make you go 
 hunting for items you have know idea are there. This being the game's biggest flaw can easily be 
 overlooked since you'll usually get just what you need by just playing normally. You can partake 
 in four seperate races, but they are impossible to beat since there is no speed upgrade for your 
 boat and playing flawlessly, using speed boosts, won't get you first place. 
  
  The races are seriously impossible even if you drive perfectly so this is just retarded. You can 
 play air hockey at the Akuda Bar or a cups game which can be fun an challenging. There are items 
 called MDiscs which you put in save machines to help evolve the story, increasing your health is 
 done by finding PA1s, Kbup, and Starkos are food that give you health so you can see the game tries 
 a lot of original things and is just a fresh world that has been overlooked by many many people. 
 With the game's unique story, great voice acting, and wonderful yet simple gameplay design you're 
 sure to spend a great number of hours on this short, yet sweet, adventure. 
  
  Picking up the game for any system has it's ups and downs: The PC version's controls are kind of 
 funky for this type of game, the PS2 has slowdown, the GameCube's controller requires a contortionist 
 to play, and the Xbox version isn't backwards compatible on the 360 so take your pick. Either way 
 you're going to have a blast with this wonderful yet overlooked game. Look forward to the anticipated 
 game next year as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2009 12:37 am PT
Review:  Beyond Good and Evil is a great game objectively: it has good voice acting, a solid story, a well 
 designed universe full of puzzles and exploration, and characters that don't make you regret (ex: 
 the sonic hedgehog universe characters) .
  
  In addition, it also has good music and graphics. The battle system is intuitive (though simple) 
 and you are rewarded money and upgrades in the intuitive method of picture taking (yes really!) 
 and pearls.
  
  Basically, the image I'm trying to create is a good game that many will enjoy. However, it is to 
 be noted, this game is not for everyone.
  
  IMO, this game is unfortunately hit by a few problems [for me personally] . The first being that 
 it suffers from a syndrome of 'played too late'. In the current year 2008, I believe that games 
 have leaped quantum levels since the time of this game's publishing, and I have played them all. 
 RPGS for story and character like the Witcher or SMT Persona 3; exploration for games like Oblivion. 
 The list goes on. Essentially, I should've played this game FIRST, back in the day. In that case, 
 I would've liked it a lot more.
  
  In addition, the puzzles are hit or miss. For me it was a miss, because in all honesty, I just 
 really don't like puzzles (as I said in my Tomb Raider review) . Beyond Good and Evil is chalk full 
 of puzzles at every corner, and eventually it started to eat at me. In addition, I really didn't 
 like the stealth aspects, and it literally got me stressed at times. I was surprised to find stealth 
 as a VERY large part of the game. This is surprising for a game that isn't exactly Splinter Cell 
 or Metal Gear Solid. In addition, I didn't really feel this was a 'story driven game'; in short, 
 the story didn't drive me to go further. I think it was the atmosphere and my subjective experience.
 
  I also refused to use a walkthrough for a game of such tone, but found it sometimes necessary 
 to do so. Sometimes you would have to perform relatively unintuitive actions, like pushing open 
 a gate that doesn't look like you could perform such an action. Comparing this game to Legend of 
 Zelda is unfair, because in LoZ I actually didn't mind using a walkthrough because of how epic 
 the game felt. This game is good, but its definitely not great like LoZ
  
  In addition, I didn't feel 'chemically attracted' to the universe. That is, I KNEW mentally that 
 it was grand and well made. But I just didn't 'feel it' and I attribute the cause towards my previous 
 paragraphs. Sometimes it felt too cartoony, and because of that, I couldn't take many of the characters 
 seriously. Let's just say, for such a dark tone, I didn't feel any darkness at all. But perhaps 
 it wasn't meant to be dark I suppose. 
  
  But all in all, this game is great and well made. Had I mentioned yet that Jade is, despite all 
 I said, by far one of the most admirable female video game characters EVER created! Though it seems 
 I complained quite a bit about certain faults I found, this definitely does not overshadow the 
 overall objective goodness of the game. It's just that, for a combination of unfortunate reasons, 
 I never really felt 'chemically connected' to the game. It's unfortunate, but everyone's brain 
 chemistry is different. And like Tomb Raider Anniversary, I felt this was a great game, but it 
 just wasn't fun for me, and thus I couldn't continue past around 7-8 hours. But [personal] fun 
 alone doesn't justify a game's score, so I say it's at least an 8.0, no less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  I really don't know how i miss this game from reviews! Beyond good & evil was a fantastic game! 
 Great graphics, great acting voices, great sound and music... GREAT, GREAT, GREAT action-adventure 
 game! The story is "like nothing on earth" something incredible and stunning. BGE have big surprises 
 and time spend to play this game will be so delectable...
  
  For the graphics i say... Amazing!... very polished and fascinating like the world of Hillys, world 
 were everything look nice and peacefully... before alien forces ambush planet Hillys were Jade, 
 a young and nice girl lives with her friends and pig uncle, Pey'j. Yes, a pig... a humanoid pig 
 :) more human than other humans... Graphics rendered made a great atmosphere with more nature and 
 environment gaiety.
  
  BGE have all. Great characterization, action, battle, stealth, puzzle solving, races with some strange 
 vehicle, drive a water-boat and craft, hovercraft... You... i mean Jade, collect more items, pearls 
 and make photos. All action in this game are fun-tastic! Yes, more fun when Jade beat some aliens 
 and creatures, more fun when Jade travel to some destination, more fun with races, more, more FUN! 
 
  
  About game-play... sometimes is easy and sometimes not but very tempting. Sound and music is fine 
 , in fact is a music that turns you on. I really don't have any bad word for this game, a game maybe 
 not for adults and more for kids and teenagers but not strictly.
  
  I play BGE - a go wild with excitement... was so fun and so provoker and look forward to BGE 2 !!! 
 Play or buy this game and you will never forget! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheStinkyHindu
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  I'm still going to be playing this game now, and now I hear BG&E2 has been announced! You'll instantly 
 love this classic game when you play. The graphics are awesome, the voice acting is fantastic (bring 
 back Pey'J's voice actor for part 2!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!) . If you do get this for this PC, make sure 
 to install the patches out there, they will increase frame rate by a huge amount but with today's 
 pcs, I don't think it will be such a performance hit as it was back then (talk about 1 fps) . I 
 recommend playing this with a Saitek P3000, P2900, P2600, P990 or P880, its a must and make sure 
 to use the programming software to configure it. I enjoyed it a lot more not using keyboard and 
 mouse.
  
  Story starts out with Jade and her friends loosing power to their protective shielding around their 
 house and you need to make some credits to turn the power back on. Then the adventure starts with 
 some cool combo hitting on the baddies. I don't want to spoil anything else about what happens 
 in the game, but look forward to some easier than most puzzle solving to get around in levels, 
 hovercraft boat races (they are a blast) , sneaking & photo shooting, a little bit of RPG elements 
 are there (the purchasing of upgrades for your hovercraft) , exploration, challenging boss fights 
 (make sure to snap those pics before you kick its butt!!) , plus more.
  
  No doubt if you havn't picked up this game DO SO NOW! It can be found for dirt cheap now at Wal-mart 
 (I think it was only $5) and its worth 10x that amount. I'll be placing my pre-order for Beyond 
 Good & Evil 2 now that I found out the original creator IS working on this title, but please bring 
 back the original voice acting, Pey'J was hilarious!
  
  I'm going back to play this some more, I just reinstalled vista 64-bit and now this is back on 
 my machine as I never did end up completing the whole game (lost my saved game when hdd died... 
 I was so far too) . DO BUY THIS!!!
  
  A kinda close comparison to this game but not as good is Psychonauts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_an
Rating: 8
Date: May 28, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Beyond Good and Evil was a game that I was looking forward to for a very long time. Its 
 an old-school action-adventure game that reminded me of Twisens Odyssey. At first it was 
 a game that I loved, the battle system wasnt outstanding but thats not the focus 
 of Adventure games like these, its about the story and atmosphere. 
  
  Beyond Good and Evil pretty much nails that part, as the atmosphere of the game is pretty terrific 
 and the story is well done. It does a really good job of giving you a specific, original feel to 
 the game and is one of the games highlights. The main character is quite likable and all 
 the other characters fit well in the world. The game has a kid feel to it but thats part 
 of the atmosphere and overall its spot on.
  
  The problem with the game in my opinion and the reason why I didnt finish it (I was getting 
 near the end) is the stealth. I personally hate when adventure games normally incorporate stealth 
 into the game because its normally extremely frustrating and not fun at all. This game has 
 probably the worst stealth Ive played in an adventure game; its something to cry 
 about. It practically killed the game for me (after all, its the main reason why I stopped 
 playing) and its sad because I absolutely loved the world of the game. The characters, the 
 places and the story were all well done and it was an excellent homage to old-school action adventure 
 games back in the day but it just got butchered by this one section.
  
  The action isnt amazing but its good for the game and overall was pretty solid. There 
 are a few moments in the game where the level design kind of makes fighting tedious or frustrating 
 and a couple parts (where you need to run to a certain point, which normally ends up just a huge 
 trial and error section) that sink this game down but they would normally be forgivable. But 
 then there are also a few annoying puzzles that are just tiresome (like hacking gets annoying near 
 the end) and other minor gameplay flaws. These arent major flaws but they come up throughout 
 the game and eventually add up to your frustration. Sometimes you have no idea what to do next, 
 sometimes you think youve done everything in a single area when you forgot to push a hidden 
 switch and it just drove me to the edge. I learned to forgive these mistakes in these kinds of 
 games but theres just too many of them for me at a single point of the game (second half 
 of the game at one point) which made me stop quit.
  
  This would have been an awesome game, with the lovely atmosphere, characters and story but these 
 annoying tedious flaws that pop up all over the place at some points hold the game back and make 
 the game frustrating. Its been a long time since Ive played this game but seeing 
 the trailer for the second one, I decided to review it. Nothing major is wrong with this game per 
 say but its all about the small things and they add up  its not for the better.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: owen_2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 2:14 am PT
Review:  I recently retrieved this game after it had been gathering dust in my stockpile of old games and 
 sat down to play it again, this time with my daughter. She very much liked the game and indeed 
 this game is very enjoyable both for children as it outlook is like very child friendly and grown-ups 
 will enjoy it as the game's story underneath is rather serious.
  
  Beyond Good and Evil (short : Beyond) is not a remarkable game in the way the basic story develops. 
 Basically we find our hero in a happy environment that suddenly is threatened by an evil. This 
 starts a journey through the story in which the hero travels from one lesser evil to a greater 
 evil and then to an even greater evil until our hero will confront that mother of all evils that 
 is hiding behind it all. Nothing new in this regard.
  
  What is rather new is all the little things around this story. For one thing Beyond has no levelling 
 system. Instead one gathers money (called credits) and pearls to buy improvements and necessities 
 like healing potions. And what is truly remarkable is that the game actually offers the ability 
 to earn money by choosing other then direct violence. One rather novel idea is that the hero can 
 collect credits and pearls by taking pictures of the fauna and flora. And while some pictures are 
 easy to take, others are rather difficult as some of the critters won't sit around in nice postures 
 waiting for you to take that picture. 
  
  An interesting feature is that the game offers the ability to coordinate tasks with companions. 
 For instance at some points in the game you can order one companion to jump up and down, which 
 forces a gas bubble to pop up from a plant, which then can be used by you to smash, with a bold 
 stroke, into a bridge thus forcing the bridge to lower and allowing you and your companion to cross. 
 This same feature can also be used in combat against some monsters who are otherwise difficult 
 to beat.
  
  Next to full frontal combat there are also options at certain moments, notably in the middle, to 
 engage an enemy by sneaky means or to bypass them all together. Not all battles are required, although 
 there are battles which are unavoidable. 
  
  What I found striking about the game is that the game first gives an impression to be a children's 
 game but then gradually develops into a serious game with bad people, evil beings and a dark sad 
 undercurrent. 
  This might look like a child's game but it isn't and it is at some point more serious then the 
 average shooter.
  
  The game is good and enjoyable, but there are some reasons I can't give it a nine or higher. First 
 the game has no replay value. Of course there are some moments that you can choose to fight the 
 enemy instead of sneaking past him, but this is hardly enough to make you want to play the game 
 again. 
  In addition the game lacks a distinct integrated style to make it truly stand out. Of course the 
 outlook has graphic novel like quality, but that isn't enough as there is nothing that connect's 
 with it. The music and sounds rate from the unintruisive to adequate but are hardly support the 
 graphic style. Dialogs are adequate, but again have nothing remarkable to make the game stand out. 
 
  
  In a nutshell a nice game that is just one notch short of the truly great. With a more integrated 
 style and with replay value it would have been a outstanding game. 
  
  
  
  Post-mortem
  
  Beyond good and evil is an article written by Friedrich Nietzsche in which he 
 attacks the western philosophers of his day in that they are too much assuming that christian morals 
 are eternal truths. What this has to do with the game I don't quite follow and my guess is that 
 it was a catchy phrase to market the game with and that is all.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShadowDawn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Beyond Good and Evil is, quite simply, a stunning action-adventure game. The story is simple but 
 elegantly presented, revolving around the protagonist's role as an amateur reporter and her efforts 
 to expose the apparent conspiracy at work on planet Hillys. It seems difficult to envisage seriously 
 empathising with a cartoonish pig or a comically brain-addled soldier, but you will find yourself 
 doing just that as you race to unravel the mystery at work in BGE. The pacing of the story felt 
 good considering that the game was a little short; BGE is the sort of game that leaves you fully 
 satisfied with how it unravels.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous, heavily stylised and even cartoonish, but never detracting from creating 
 a serious and vibrant atmosphere. The locales within BGE are decorated in a varied enough fashion 
 that you will never feel that you're looking at the same thing over and over. The areas around 
 town you visit between missions are altered subtly, so you always feel there's something to look 
 at it.
  
  The sound in BGE is similarly brilliant. It is slightly disappointing that only story dialogue 
 is voiced, but the voicework is appropriate and often genuinely amusing. The music is eclectic 
 - from the faux-Jamaican beats at the Mammago Garage to the repeated industrial beat of Propaganda 
 in the bar - and yet always feels appropriate, even when the mood of one area contrasts strongly 
 against another.
  
  Admittedly, all of the facets of BGE's gameplay - combat, stealth, puzzle solving, vehicle-based 
 puzzles, and collecting (both photos and pearls) - are fairly simple, providing enough challenge 
 to keep you attentive, but not usually enough to seriously challenge you. If you are drawn in by 
 the vibrant atmosphere of BGE, however, this won't bother you - you'll be too busy racing through 
 the game. Because of this, BGE is the sort of game that draws you in to play for long, unfrustrating 
 sittings. This does rather highlight the fact that the game is a little short and unchallenging 
 - the dedicated gamer will probably finish BGE in four or five sittings - but since you can pick 
 this game up in your bargain bin these does, you really shouldn't worry about value... Beyond Good 
 and Evil is worth every cent you'll pay for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vecuf
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  Good parts: - beautiful, rich and imaginative water world, being a real pleasure to discover and 
 explore
  - great looking water - it's great to navigate with that strange vehicle on the water, great alternate 
 between day and night - intriguing, solid, rich story, has a politycal touch - excellent stealth 
 action parts, no need to hack and slash everybody
  - the taking pictures idea was great - makes you immerse more deeply into that rich world with 
 his strange and very diverse inhabitants - excellent packed game with high production values
  
  Bad parts:
  
  - Bugs : this should have been an almost perfect game without the critical 
 bugs that not let you continue the game; more badly, those bugs haven't been addressed by Ubisoft 
 who did not issued a patch - was necessary that fans come up with technical solutions for these 
 bugs - the camera is frustrating sometimes because many of the actions are stealth movement very 
 sensitive
  
  This is an excellent game to play for adventure fans. I have enjoyed every piece of it, although 
 I was very disappointed by the bugs that have not been taken care of properly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyleLambert
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Beyond Good and Evil
  Ubisoft
  2003
  PS2 - Xbox - PC - Gamecube
  Designer: Michel Ancel (Creator of Rayman)
  Developer: Ubisoft Montpellier Ubisoft Milan - Xbox 
 and PC Ports
  
  Action-adventure
  Single Player
  ESRB: T (13+)
  
  Beyond Good and Evil is a magnificent game in all aspects.
  The gameplay, the art direction, 
 the graphics: All of it mix together to create an immense, epic, and poignant gaming experience, 
 one you will not be soon to forget.
  
  We take the role of Jade, who dedicates her life to protecting young children of Hyllis who have 
 lost their parents to the DomZ invasions.
  After accepting a job to raise money for said protection, she discovers the job was only a cover 
 for the IRIS network, and she is asked to join.
  They say the government they have grown to trust, are the reason the DomZ are here, but they lack 
 the proof, and it is your job to infiltrate their high security areas and workplaces, and capture 
 the truth in film.
  
  The stealth aspects of the game are great, the combat is solid, but what really immerses you is 
 the story and the characters, perfectly created and executed, this game must be played to truly 
 respect them, no words would do the characters justice.
  
  Simply put, you must buy this game, no excuses.
  You will remember it forever, and it still measures 
 higher against Action-Adventure games released to date.
  
  9/10
  SUPERB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StalkerCamper
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  This one is one of the few, perhaps only, games I still hold close to my heart. I played it for 
 the first time in 2005, I got i through a game club where you get one cheap game each month. When 
 I first laid eyes on it, I though What kind of a **** kids game is this? I've never heard of it. 
 After I'd played it... well, first thing I did was searching for a sequel on the web like a maniac 
 and when I found out it wasn't going to be any for now because of poor sales, I instantly joined 
 a BG&amp; E community devoted to make it happen. Up to date, I've played it four times and I'm still 
 not bored of it, and that doesn't happend alot.
  
  About the game then: Yes, the game is a little bit short, I give you that. The ending leaves a 
 huge cliffhanger, but you got to consider that it was originally meant as a trilogy, so I don't 
 think that's a bad thing. Apart from that, the game is as good as it gets. The sound and music 
 are just magnificent, very beautiful and the gameplay is just perfect. But above all, the story 
 is as immersive as ever, and the graphics are drop-dead gorgeous, especially Jade.
  
  If you haven't played this game yet, as you should have, you would be a fool not to, especially 
 with it's low price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Malkavbug
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 30, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Beyond Good and Evil has turned out to be a surprisingly good change of pace and just all around 
 fun to play.
  
  Puzzles and combat are relatively simple, which may be an initial turn off until you realize what 
 the game is about, exploration. Extra bonus points for assisted platform jumping type play to avoid 
 that one jump that requires 30 reloads to complete.
  
  As far as exploration games go this one has approached it with a fresh approach mixing good elements 
 from multiple genres into a superb final product. The tie in with photography and the need for 
 awareness of surroundings in order to find critters to progress was innovative and surprisingly 
 fun, especially compared with usual item grinds other games can pitch your way.
  
  The humor in the game is adult enough for quirky laughs yet childish enough to allow your kids 
 to be in the room.
  
  Cons - Additional environment interaction would have been nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravage19
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 10, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  Can a game offer plenty of finger-twitching action, wow-worthy visuals, and still tell a story 
 that's sophisticated, even profound? Can videogames convey social and political messages and still 
 be a lot of fun? The answer, of course, is yes. It's just that in an industry so focused on technical 
 accomplishment and razzle-dazzle, it's rare when all that style meets some very real substance. 
 With Beyond Good &amp; Evil, we've got one of those rarities. And it's a darned good time, too.
 
  
  In one sense, it's easy to describe Beyond Good &amp; Evil, the latest game from Rayman creator 
 Michel Ancel. Its core game play is very similar to recent Zelda titles, especially the generally 
 excellent The Wind Waker, with puzzle-laden dungeons, vehicular transport to different parts of 
 the game world, an intuitive combat system, and even heart containers. Add to this plenty of stealth 
 levels, hovercraft racing, classic shooting sequences, and even some platformer-style elements 
 (though somehow without the frustrating jumping) . Then wrap it all up with a sophisticated story 
 involving rich characters in a vivid, beautifully realized game world.
  
  www. freewebs. com/ravage19 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Alpha_Omega_
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  WOW!!!
  Superb game ever make! I will waiting it sequel...!
  
  Graphics:
  This game have almost excelent graphics ever made!!! including the special effect...
  
  Sounds:
 
  Great music and sound! It's very fit with the story line...!!!
  
  Story line:
  WOW...!!! Superb!!! Two tumbs-up for this game! Really great story line and plotting that I ever 
 played in PC...!!!
  
  Value:
  When I know this game publish for the first time, I know it had somthing different rather than 
 other game ever made...! I buy it and then try it and I surpriced! Coz it's still better than what 
 I've eer expected before!! (^_^)
  
  Control:
  Quiet simple control for the character makes me can enjoy the game and also the story line...!!
 
  
  Simple words...
  EXCELENT...!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karok
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  I get bored easy, so for me to say that I finished a game is really saying something. For me to 
 say that I finished a game twice is unusual, for me to say that I played a game completely through 
 3 times, and wrote a review about it is a once in a life time event.......... well almost.
  
  I love this game, it is well though out, well designed and a totally unique experience.
  
 
  Beleive what people tell you, this is the BEST budget game, shoot it should be one of the best 
 out there. it is truly a joy to play, and play and play and pl...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nature-elf
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 14, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  As a reporter, going round to uncover conspiracies of the gorvenment is your job as you control 
 Jade in Beyond Good And Evil, this game contains driving, a little flight simulation, stealth and 
 action all into one. Great storylines are rare in games because players now mostly look for action 
 and adventure, so Beyond Good And Evil is a rare find among games nowadays. Filled with twist and 
 turns, you travel around Hillys to do stealth mission and even get to go to space, but you won't 
 go alone, you have a partner, not like Ashley in RE4 who mostly gets you into more touble than compared 
 to help, or Mayu in Fatal Frame, you don't get a damsel in distress, you get real useful sidekicks 
 like Uncle Pey'j which is by the way a pig that is like a fatherly figure to Jade and Double H, a 
 very reliable and loyal sidekickalthough they don't stick with you throughout the whole game, they 
 can help relieve some annoyance when you get stuck or face a difficult challange because they are 
 hillarious, serving as the games comic mischief. Fighting isn't always an option in the game instead 
 it is stealth sneak up and kick the baddie and see the fly in the air, funny and also a little painful, The 
 enviroment is beautifully done ,it isn; t very bright and happy but also isn't dull, it is just nice. Voiceover 
 is great and comes in multiple languages but music is the one that deserves the most credit because 
 it is very nicely put together and suits the gameplay just right. The downside is that the whole 
 game is just too short but overall it is very fun and satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigoc1977
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 12, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  I love this game. I mean, it hits on all points... FPS, RPG, Combat, Puzzle, Strategy! Is there 
 anything this game can't do??? I loved the picture-taking portion of the game, and the puzzles/story 
 were great. This is easily the most versatile game I've ever played. I can't help but feel that 
 there should be more to it... maybe the second game could be Above Good &amp; Evil. Hopefully some 
 of you out there are savvy enough to get the pun. I know that some of you are going to look at 
 the slightly cheesy cover and think Oh, crap... this looks just like Haven! Now, to those of you 
 who like Haven, I apologize. It wasn't for me. I found that Beyond Good and Evil was everything 
 Haven wasn't. Especially for the combat portions of the game. I mean, Jade has a staff, and Haven 
 has a... yo-yo. I find that to be sadly appropriate! I can't think of much else to say about it, 
 except this: DO NOT FORGET TO GO TO THE VOLCANO!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  BGE is one of the best games I have ever played on my computer and I enjoyed every bit of it. You 
 play as Jade who is a young girl and lives on the planet Hillys which is under attack by the Domz, 
 some weird aliens who are on their mission to take over this peaceful planet. The best thing I 
 like about BGE is that its playing these three games together. Mostly you move around inside enemy 
 headquarters and you must be stealthy which reminds me of Splinter Cell. Then there are lots of 
 puzzles and jumping around to do, just like in Prince of Persia. Finally it has a really very nice 
 storyline, which is simple yet immersive, which reminds me of MGS, that how important a nice storyline 
 is for a game.
  
  Jade is my favorite female video game character, the reason for that is, well first of all shes 
 all green, which is my favorite color, and she looks really cute too. The graphics of BGE are cartoon-ish 
 type but still really nice. The colors are well defined and the details are good. It really gives 
 you a video game sense rather than a game striving to be more realistic. Special effects like explosions 
 are really cool and the smooth blending of colors always soothes your eyes. Audio quality of BGE 
 is also great. The characters voice acting is very properly done and suit every character. I find 
 the computers voice, though typical, yet funny. The background music that keep playing in the 
 background are all suited to the given situation and whenever in fight mode, the music changes, 
 which always charged me up.
  
  The gameplay of BGE is very simple and easy. Though there arent a lot of moves and during the 
 whole game you have a stick type thingy, but it never grows on you. Hold your attack button for 
 a while and Jade releases a power attack which is very effective against multiple enemies, but 
 your timing has to be perfect. As the game is mostly stealth and puzzle based, youll be walking 
 behind enemies, mostly inside the most of the headquarters of Alpha sections (protectors of Hillys) , 
 taking notes of their movements before doing anything, sometimes youll be just running out of 
 a pretty screwed up situation. Your transport is your hovercraft which youll be using to move 
 around in Hillys. You can always upgrade it at Mamagos garage of you have enough number pearls, 
 which youll always have. Jade is a photographer so there is a lot of photography to be done which 
 not only earns you credits to buy stuff but also accomplish your missions. Your enemies, the Domz 
 monsters are fun to kill and for some you need to work on a strategy to kill them. Another good 
 feature of the game is the number of mini games that you can play which are all interesting and 
 very handy as they earn you credits.
  
  Beyond Good &amp; evil is definitely of the finest games ever made as it has so many features, 
 so many things that you can do and yet its all very simple, and backed by its really nice storyline 
 and given that its gameplay is just 10 to 15 hours, its a game everyone must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monco59
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 23, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Michel Ancel. Most folks know him as the mind behind Rayman, but it turns out he has some other 
 ideas brewing in that noggin of his. One of those ideas realized is Beyond Good &amp; Evil. BG&amp; E 
 is an action adventure game that is hard to describe. Most often the game takes the appearance 
 of a stealth game, but it also sprinkles in healthy doses of open ended exploration, driving sequences, 
 shooting and close combat fighting. With such a hodgepodge of genres, youd be allowed to think 
 this game is a mess. But the truth is, its anything but a mess. Ancel and Co. have successfully 
 blended all these different game types, wrapped them in a solid, if predictable story and dressed 
 the whole thing in beautiful visuals.
  
  As stated, the gameplay consists of various differing portions. From the very beginning, the game 
 introduces you to its extremely simple fighting mechanics, which simply consist of moving the 
 character around by way of the arrow keys, bashing enemies using the mouse button 1 and occasionally 
 dodging incoming attacks using the second mouse button. Simple? Yes. Fun? Quite. After this, you 
 are acquainted with the exploration and driving portions. Hillys is a planet under attack from 
 a mysterious alien race called the DomZ. Protecting the Hillyans is a group called the Alpha Sections. 
 As Jade is drawn deeper and deeper into the story, she must explore various locales on foot, by 
 hovercraft and even using a spaceship. Exploration is not exactly open-ended, but there is a nice 
 amount of room to roam around. Every now and then Jade is forced to infiltrate enemy strongholds, 
 and this is where the stealth kicks in. Seeing as how Jade is no match for her enemies, you must 
 use quile and sneakiness to achieve your objectives. During these portions, the game feels like 
 Splinter Cell Lite. You need to avoid being seen by the enemy, circumvent various obstacles using 
 your acrobatic prowess and collect evidence with the help of your nifty camera. As a nice touch, 
 the camera acts as more than a gameplay gimmick. Early on, you are given a task by a scientist 
 to photograph the various animals living on Hillys, in exchange for money and pearls (used as currency 
 in the Mammago Garage, a place you will need to visit often in order to progress through the game) . 
 Finding all the various animals becomes a fun minigame in and of itself, and its not the only 
 one of its kind in the game. You also have a futuristic version of air hockey and three-card Monte 
 played with coconuts. After you acquire a glove capable of hurling disks, the game also takes on 
 the first person shooter genre, but in a very limited way. The weapon is mainly used to solve a 
 few puzzles here and there.
  
  Beyond Good &amp; Evil also sports a varied cast of characters, most of them funny and interesting. 
 Naturally your two compatriots, Peyj the pig and reporter-turned-soldier Double H are the most 
 fleshed out, but there is a decent amount of depth in most of the other inhabitants of Hillys. 
 I found the rhinos of Mammago Garage to be some of the funniest NPCs in a while, and the game has 
 an overall cooky feel which makes it all the more endearing.
  
  Graphically, BG&amp; E is astounding thanks to its brilliant artistic design. Jade is a well designed 
 heroine who evokes a strong sense of attachment in the player, as do most of the other characters 
 and settings. Hillys is designed well, with equal amounts of cheery and colorful places contrasted 
 by dark and ominous, even somber settings. The world itself feels a bit like ours, only with a 
 twist. This manages to ground the game nicely and give its story and characters somewhat of a 
 deeper meaning and resonance. The game also employs a brilliant blur effect that softens the edges 
 of character models and gives the game a psychedelic feel. Technically though, the game isnt as 
 stellar. Whilst playing, I encountered numerous crashes and glitches, ranging from minor things 
 such as blurry text to game breaking ones like missing sound during cutscenes or unexplainable 
 crashes to the desktop.
  
  The audio in BG&amp; E deserves a 10 thanks to its brilliant soundtrack alone. Granted, the voice 
 acting and sound effects are top notch, but the music really shines through all of that. The game 
 has an incredibly varied but still cohesive sound, with each song fitting the game and sounding 
 outlandish at the same time. One of my personal favorites is the French hip hop ballad Propaganda 
 that can be heard in the Akuda Bar.
  
  Beyond Good &amp; Evil is a brilliant action adventure game that is only marred by its briefness 
 and some major stability issues. Still, these are easy to overlook thanks to a cast of great characters, 
 beautiful visuals and outstanding music. While the game has no replayability, it presents such 
 a unique and compelling trip through memorable places, passing up on the opportunity to do so would 
 be a big mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 22, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  I saw this game when it 1st came out, and I told my self that I would not play this game. Just 
 for the way it looks. Now after 3 years my sister brought it home, and well I took it just to try 
 it out and well now I love the game. Beyond Good and Evil is a game based for the little kids but 
 some how has got me playing it too. This game has everything a player wants with easy gameplay 
 and some what good graphics for its time. The sound was a little different, I didnt care much for 
 it. This game had a story line that want you to keep playing it and playing it. Its a little short 
 for my taste but O'well. I still am telling every one to try this game out. Thanks for reading. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  The normal game for me is slice and dice, death gore misery. I was told about this from a friend 
 because i needed a mind break. i was burnt out from killing and hunting for clues. S0 i gave it 
 a try. i was so plesantly surprised that words cant express it. I loved the story line. You are 
 Jade a poor girl with no money that had her electric turned off so here security gird around her 
 lighthouse is turned off. Taking care of kids whoses family was captured by the dreded dom the 
 enemy in this. So a job comes around to take pictures of all the animals on the planet and outer 
 space. you take it pays the bills. ok. Your uncle is a boar hog. hes a master at building things 
 and computers with codes. you take pictures get money. The best rewards are pearls which are used 
 mainly to repaire a hovercraft that your uncle built and get health. The players in this are unique 
 and bizzare. Very Colorful to say the least. your uncle is captured and you need to get him back. 
 Travels take you all over the planet taking pictures along the way, going to underground, on water 
 boatraces, sounds easy NOT..... They play rough. anyway, Jade needs information and you talk to 
 everyone. Somethings are important some not. Jade Infiltrates enemy headquaters fights all kinds 
 of robots and creatures, There is a Den of Thieves that is just a fantastic Chase in your hovercraft. 
 She does it three times in different locations. The Hardness increases Each time its Done. You 
 race the clock. My fingers became numb doing it. The jest of this is to much to list. Chases, Fighting 
 Code braking, Getting pictures for money, Side trips, and The great finish which brought tears 
 to my eyes. A wonderful end. Graphics are great and well worth a look. Sometimes controls dont 
 do Exactly what you want but it WHAT the game wants. youd need to play it to see it all and im 
 sure yu will find it very rewarding especially if your looking for something different. Oh i almost 
 for got Big H. A most rememberable buy a soldier jade saves and sticks to her like glue and his 
 comments are price less. If you hit him by mistake hell say RESPECT THE HOME TEAM. I cant Give 
 it justice in this review just to much to cover,,,, But im totally relaxed now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Beyond Good and Evil puts a new dimension to Adventure Games. Its approach is complete 3D in all 
 kinds of action, unlike most adventure games, and it has combined actions, races, puzzles and arcade-game 
 style reward gathering. This concept is goodbut stretched to the point that I kept on losing track 
 which actions precedes which. For example to gather some pearls you have to win certain races and 
 venture into strange places. Then there are money issues, health issues, boat repair issues too 
 many areas to handle. I think they overdid putting so many issues for the player to handle. This 
 is after all an action adventure game, with higher emphasis on the adventure. The other flaw involves 
 the action itself. While fighting an enemy as Jade, you might lose the visual perspective of where 
 you are hitting and from what angle. This is not a big problem like that in Prince of Persia Sands 
 of Timebut it is a problem.
  I dont like stealth in a game, as it tends to slow down the pace and make it un-action worthy 
 (which not necessarily true for everyone) . Here you often resort to stealth to take photograph 
 to expose a conspiracy of the ruling elites. The world of Beyond Good and Evil is beautifully conceived 
 along with beautiful navigation channels and different parts of cities. There are creatures to 
 beat, bandits to dodge and enemies to handle and photos to take, races to win, pearls to collect, 
 strange places to venture into, and many other things to collect. The storyline is well-conceived 
 and the game is very enjoyable in general. If the game was not too cumbersome with too many inventories/issues 
 or objectives, it would have surely turned out to be a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  I decided to buy this game for the PC the other day after hearing sooo many great things and the 
 game lived upto them all. Only had one problem with the game really and thats because you can tell 
 its a port and while it doesn't play amazingly for the PC, it isn't the worst port i've seen.
 
  
  The gameplay is simple but great and really is your traditional Platformer/action/adventure game 
 and has some great touches. It reminds me of Jak and daxter most of all which is also a fantastic 
 game. However this one seems to have a full package in a nice, small and well paced game. It seems 
 to cram everything in a small game, which i love because you don't get bored of playing for too 
 long and it leaves u wanting MORE.
  
  I love the combat because its sooo simple but really fun and i like the whole slowing down of the 
 combat aswel, just ads to the atmosphere. It is very fun but the controls on the PC can be very 
 annoying.
  
  I also like the Camera side game and find it fun to take pictures.
  
  Graphics wise it's not the best technically but it's got a great look and feel and great art design 
 about it that more than make sup for it. Similar to WOW's engine being OLD but the art makes it 
 look sooo good. I also love the design of the Female main character, shes very sweet. Everything 
 is just perfect and lovely to look at, specially combat.
  
  Sounds are all really kool and nothing feels like it gets repetitive and best of all is the music!!!! 
 It's sooo nice to listen to and really just is superb. The voice acting is really nice too and 
 theres some comedy there.
  
  I picked the game up for &pound;10 so its amazing value, altho theres no multiplayer and the games 
 small, you feel very satisfied with it.
  
  Overall it's a great game i really want to see more of in the future. I can't really fault it in 
 any area apart from being able to tell its a PC port. It's probally best you buy it for your console 
 rather than PC anyways. It is abit short but i don't really care because long games become boring 
 for me and ruin it abit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  Beyond Good and Evil is best described as a rare gem. While the game wasn't enjoyed by many people 
 as it didn't sell very well, those who did play it, feel privileged and rightfully so. This is 
 one of those exceedingly rare games that successfully blends an interesting and memorable story 
 - that has several intriguing twists along the way - with unique gameplay mechanics, all wrapped 
 up around an excellent presentation, and ends up delivering a very memorable and unique adventure 
 experience.
  
  While the game can be classified as an adventure game, it also offers much more, such as hovercraft 
 races, fetching rare items, a very enjoyable mini-game resembling air hockey as well as a "follow 
 the cup that contains the ball" mini-game, and some very tense and challenging stealth sequences.
 
  
  Of course, the main story is the real star of the show and that's because this is one very memorable 
 tale, filled with plenty of emotions and surprises along the way. You play the role of Jade, a 
 freelance photographer who lives in the world of Hillys, a place that is home to various lifeforms 
 and that is under the threat of the Domz invasion. Hillys is protected by the Alpha Sections (or 
 is it?) , but pretty soon you'll realize things aren't what they seem and it will be your job to 
 expose the truth behind the heinous acts that are taking place on Hillys. I won't go any further 
 into the story, since I don't want to spoil it for you, but needless to say is that there are plenty 
 of memorable moments as well as various plot twists. Very rarely is a game so successful in blending 
 an interesting story with entertaining gameplay (in fact, most people admit that even the greatest 
 games have weak stories) , but Beyond Good and Evil breaks the trend and hits a home-run in this 
 department.
  
  Since storytelling is such an important aspect of the game, most of your actions involve interacting 
 with the environment to reveal new pieces of the story. The game involves plenty of puzzles, most 
 of them not too hard, but all very enjoyable. You'll also have to interact with most of the Hilly's 
 population to discover clues that may help you solve some of this puzzles, or perhaps find a rare 
 treasure or a useful item. There's also plenty of combat in the game, though this is fairly straightforward. 
 You have a regular attack and a "super attack", the latter which can be enhanced later in the game, 
 and you'll soon find that each attack is useful in certain situations better than the other. And 
 you won't always fight alone, since for virtually the entire game, you'll have a thrusty companion 
 to help you out of trouble. But occasionally, the game will encourage you to avoid combat and be 
 stealthy, something that can be potentially frustrating for some, but fortunately, the stealth 
 sequences are handled very well in Beyond Good and Evil, not too mention that the game is structured 
 in a way that you'll never have to repeat long sections over and over again.
  
  And while the story and the gameplay itself are good enough to grant an enjoyable experience, this 
 experience is greatly enhanced by the excellent presentation of Beyond Good and Evil. The graphics 
 and sound of the game are simply amazing. The art direction behind the development of Hillys is 
 great, since every section of Hillys oozes life and style, and the world feels alive thanks to 
 it's very colorful population. The sound is equally great, with some very catchy tunes (especially 
 the one for the Mammago Garage) , as well as some terrific voice acting.
  
  The main complaint most people have with Beyond Good and Evil is that the game is relatively short; 
 I'm not sure if I can agree with that statement (I spent around 13 hours on both the main quest 
 and all the side activities) , but at any rate this is a ride that's enjoyable from beginning to 
 end, without a dull moment in between. The game may be not be terribly long indeed, but this is 
 a case of "short and very sweet".
  
  The only real complaint I have with the game is the final boss battle. It's not so much that it 
 was bad or anti-climatic, but it was hard and confusing as hell. Without spoiling much, there's 
 one part where you'll have to deal with reversed controls (!) . It was a big WTF moment that brought 
 an unnecessary amount of frustration to a game that had never felt frustrating. If there's a positive 
 side to it, is that once you beat that boss, you will feel a great sense of accomplishment.
  
  If you haven't played this game, please, do yourself and the gaming industry a favor and pick 
 up a copy as soon as possible. We need more games like Beyond Good and Evil (not to mention a sequel 
 to it, since the ending screams for it) , because games like this one prove that great storytelling 
 and gaming can work very well together. Beyond Good and Evil is without a doubt one of the greatest 
 adventure games ever made, and one that will live in my heart forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos_rival
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  The first reaction wasn't good. The characters are not so well designed, the story seems to be 
 a typical alien invasion story but I continued playing to see why the reviewers loved that game.
 
  
  Highly addictive. The perfect description. A real adventure game, with a great scenario. The main 
 character, Jade, feets exactly for this role and becomes a lovable hero. Fantasy, conspiracy theories, 
 underground rebel agents, exploration, journalism, riddles, traps, battles with strange creatures, 
 splendid music and tones of humor are mixed and the result is Beyond Good and Evil.
  
  A sequel for that game is recommend. At least at the end of the game we have an innuendo for that 
 (all the gamers that have finished the game know what I mean) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesgelfand
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Buying this game for ten cents, I never suspected what I was in for. I first learnt of this game 
 playing King Kong, and hearing Peter Jackson reference Ancel's earlier works. Then one day, I passed 
 the bargains section, and lo and behold, I had a classic loaded on my computer. This is amazing! 
 Graphically superb, with excellent characters, voice-overs and an excellent story. In one word, 
 memorable. It's a crime that there isn't a sequel yet! This game has it all, though it falls short 
 in one way, it's about ten to fifteen hours in length. Still, today it's a bargain, don't hesitate, 
 just buy it, now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silph01
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 23, 2006 4:35 am PT
Review:  This was my first game ever played on the PC, and... wow.
  I did not expect much from this game, but it left me totally amazed. The story, the characters, 
 the graphics...
  
  You begin the game with your protagonist entering this battle, without knowledge of where they 
 came from or what they are. Soon enough you figure that out, yet there's much more behind the story.
 
  
  You're a reporter in the world of Hillys, a smallish place with enough to keep you entertained 
 throughout the game, such as races, escapades and chasing looters. The game keeps you thinking 
 enough to find each new area an adventure, and when some places seem impossible, they definitely 
 are not, so it's always worth a second, third or even fourth try. The keys are easily learned, 
 and the game's smooth storyline and level connection definitely makes this game worth purchasing, 
 and since it's developed by Ubisoft, this game appears in the Ubisoft's budget area (or at least 
 for me, as that's how I got it.)
  
  Some of the sounds work really well with the specific part of the game you are in, and they change 
 you mood easily (such as when battling monsters, a high-paced song, and when travelling, an ambient 
 melody) .
  This game is quite old but the graphics still give it a great touch, and most times the detail 
 is astounding... so much to look at and examine. There's also plenty side-missions to keep you 
 involved if you don't feel like going to space - yet... or something similar. The game doesn't 
 stop there, as you have many pearls to collect and many snapshots of animals to achieve before 
 you can complete this game 100%, so stay on the lookout for many small things in your quest. Also, 
 your saved games generate internet codes which let you experience cool things on the official website, 
 so there's also great potential for activity outside the game itself.
  
  What I, personally, like best about this game is, complete with many enemies to bash about, it 
 still keep you thinking, and searching, and, judging by the ending, hopefully there'll be a sequel 
 in the near future.
  
  Thanks for reading this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 5, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game , it has action and it has adventure... it has it all.
  
  The graphics are amazing , use high details and maximum anti-stropic with your VGA card and you 
 will experience a great game. There are a lot of characters in this game with great voice acting 
 and dialogs, the story is solid and anti-political. I loved the fact that you can earn credits 
 by taking pictures of creatures which means that it combines a little role-playing which is even 
 more attracting. The fun part is that you can drive a hovercraft and even more upgrade it, you 
 can race and search throughout the entire game with it .
  
  I have really enjoyed the book and i didn't think that the game will also be a blast.
  
  Well 
 have fun with him, buy it and play it , you won't regret it.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K4ss3r
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 26, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  Beyond Good &amp; Evil is, simply, one of the best games I've tried of this genre.
  The game is really nothing like any other, I have yet to see any game similar to this, and therefor, 
 this is a game that shouldn't be missed, for anyone that enjoys action packed adventure games, 
 with sneaky gameplay. In Beyond Good &amp; Evil, you take control of Jade, a young photographer. 
 She's in charge of 'Jade Reporting', and earns a living by wrapping up photographic reports for 
 various people.
  
  Jade is accompanied by her uncle Pay'j. Now, Pay'j (Pronounced like 'Paged') , is not actually a 
 human like Jade.. He's a, well, pig. (Literally.)
  A handyman, that knows quite a bit on how to fix broken things; Such as their hovercraft, their 
 MDisk reader and so on.
  
  Later on, she'll work together with Double H - An action reporter from the IRIS Network, that she 
 rescues. A funny character, if you ask me. He often refers to a book, Carlson &amp; Peters , and 
 uses quotes from it, such as Don't break up the team - Carlson &amp; Peters page #xx 
  
  Hovercraft? MDisk? Well, yes. They do have a hovercraft. It's not actually in perfect shape, but 
 it works, at least until it breaks down and the guys from the Mamago Garage comes by, and and helps 
 them over to their garage where they can buy a new engine for their hovercraft.
  
  MDisk's are tiny disks, that are used for serveral things, and you find quite a few of them throughout 
 the game. The one that you'll probably be using the most, is the Save Game disk. This is how the 
 gaming saving feature works; You find an MDisk Reader, spread through the planet of Hyllis, and 
 the you pop in the disk, and you save the game. (Of course, there are checkpoints some places, 
 so if you die, you'll go back to that checkpoint, and not having to start from your past save. 
 Makes it easier? I guess, but it also makes the game less frustrating.)
  Some MDisk's also contain missions, issues of newspapers and so on.
  
  In the beginning of 
 the game, their home is attacked by the DomZ, and the shield won't work, since they're low on money.. 
 Very bad timing.
  Jade takes care of the DomZ, and releases the children (Who's parents has been captured by the 
 DomZ, and is living with Jade &amp; Pay'j for the time being) , that the DomZ, sort of, possesed. 
 Jade is pulled down in a hole, where Pay'j comes to her rescue, and throws her Dai-Jo stick to 
 her, so that she can free herself, and help Pay'j defeat the DomZ monster. After deafeting the 
 DomZ monster, it leaves a Pearl D'Aramis (Currency on the black market, which they use to repair 
 and upgrade the hovercraft.) , and the Alpha Section helps them get up from the hole.
  
  IRIS, is a secret organization, that is against the Alpha Section, and wants to show the population 
 what really is going on. After Jade accepts a mission, that she recieves with an MDisk, she is 
 taking to an old volcano, and has to find and photograph a monster for the IRIS Network.
  After this, she's explained that they're from the IRIS, and they want her to work for them, and 
 help them find out the truth about the DomZ attacks, and the Alpha Section.
  
  The Alpha Section is the 'Army' of Hyllis, who promises to keep the DomZ away from them; However, 
 quite unsuccesfully. But, do they really take any effort in keeping the DomZ away from Hyllis? 
 Well, Jade is soon to find out. I won't tell much more about the story, since spoilers never really 
 are a good thing, though you know should have a picture of what this game is about, and how it 
 works.
  
  As I said, she's a photographer. And since they're low on money, they need to get some soon, in 
 case the DomZ attacks again.
  Secundo, a person in her S. A. C, explains to her a way to make money, easily. (Actually, the S. A. C 
 is similar to a backpack, though it's smaller and is placed on Jade's belt. It can hold everything 
 she finds, by comprimising them, and making them smaller. Secundo, despite not getting a real introduction 
 to who he is, seems to be the interegrated system for the S. A. C, and he'll explain to you what 
 you find, how you use it, and give you tips throughout the game.) All she has to do is take pictures 
 of the animals on Hyllis, and send them to a scientist, who needs to know what animals are inhabiting 
 Hyllis.
  Each time you take a picture, you get money: Ranging from 100 to 3000. You can use the money for 
 buying food (Stackos, K-pubs) , pearls or an Animal &amp; Pearl detector, which can help you find 
 pearls and animals you've yet to see.
  
  The combat system is very easy - It's all about hitting them with you Dai-Jo stick, and dodging 
 their attacks. Of course, the enemies gets a bit tougher throughout the game.
  Also, you find a Gyrodisk Glove, that shoots tiny disks.. Not really that dangerous, unless it's 
 pointed in the right direction. Well, it'll surely help you out.
  
  The controls are easy, and they'll be explained to you in the game, so there's not reason to read 
 the manual, unless you'd want to get a head start, and know how to do by the time you get into 
 the game.
  W, A, S, D controls Jade around, and Q uses items (Suchs as Stackos) , E uses either Pay'j or Double 
 H's special attack. The mouse, does of course, control the camera - The camera angle can be very 
 bad sometimes, and this is probably the worst thing in the game. Sometimes, you can even get a 
 good eye on what's going on, while trying to stay alive.
  It's not a major issue, but it can be annoying sometimes, especially if you're trying to sneak, 
 or just fighting a lot of enemies.
  
  The graphics might not be close to what the Crysis Engine can do; But I tell you, these graphics 
 fits the game perfectly. The game would almost feel wierd, if they had better graphics then this 
 - I'm not saying that the graphics is bad, nor are they as good as many other games on the market 
 right now. But considering that this game is from 2003, then the graphics are truely remarkable, 
 and really sets the scene.
  
  Sound-wise, this game is great. Voices fits the characters nicely, and the music ain't too bad 
 either; Some of it may even make you mumble it for a while, since it's too catchy.
  The funniest voices in this game, has got to be the Rhinos at the Mamago Garage - Jamaican Rhinos, 
 can't get much better then that, huh? It often made me laugh, whenever I entered the Mamago Garage. 
 They always come back to MAMAGOS! Well, nonetheless, the voices are great, and so is the music. 
 (Kudos to Ubisoft for making a game with Jamaican-accent Rhinos.)
  
  Value is good - However, the game can get a bit repetitive if you play it for too many hours straight. 
 But I've played through the game a couple of times, and the last time I did it, was about just 
 as fun and interesting, as the first. I've even found many new things in the game, that I probably 
 didn't find the first time I played it.
  To complete the game, you won't have to photograph every creature and find every pearl; But you 
 can, if you want to. This does improve the value of the game, and speeding around in the hovercraft 
 is quite funny as well.
  
  To wrap it up; Beyond Good &amp; Evil really shouldn't be missed, if you enjoy such games. Especially 
 not, considering how cheap you can get it nowadays. I highly recommend this game; Despite it's 
 not the longest game I've tried, and that it can be completed in 8-15 hours (Or less if you're 
 boosting through the game) , then it's very much worth the money, and you can get it on multiple 
 platforms, if your PC isn't good enough to run it.
  
  This game is one heck of an experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1000bullets
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 23, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  the story of this game is the only one of its kind in videogame history its so original its too 
 much.
  the desing... THE DESING IS UNVOCABULARYABLY TOO GOOD FOR THIS WORD YES I SAID IT UNVOCABULARYABLE 
 its amazing! if you would be playing this game on the floor coverd with spikes and fire (somehow) 
 you would feel very comfortable. because you get so much into the game that you feel that your the 
 main character.
  this game is one of my favorite ps2 games ever!
  the stealth the desing the cinematics the story the gameplay everything is unbelivably amazing 
 its DEFENETLY WORTH BUYING. if your a (game buying type) this is quiet the right game to buy. the 
 game is pretty short but with everything there , i take all the time in the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pederen
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Beyond Good Evil was released in 2003 and is still one of the greatest (action-adventure) games 
 of all time.
  The events in the game takes place on the planet Hillys, where a creepy Alien race called "The 
 Domz" constantly attacks the peaceful sivilians.
  Fortunately (?) , The Military Organisation "The Alpha Sections" are protecting the sivilians and 
 fighting the Domz.
  
  In Beyond Good & Evil, you play as Jade, a beautiful teenage girl who lives with her uncle at a 
 firehouse where they take care of children whose parents has been kidnapped. Unfortunately, you 
 have problems with money and a science center gives you money if you photograph the creatures on 
 your planet.
  Soon, a mysterious man named Mr. de Castellac contacts you and you get a mission from him. Here's 
 where your fantastic journey starts.
  
  There is a lot of thing that makes this game unique, the graphics is fantastic, not only technicaly, 
 but the visual art and design is totally original and is one of the thing that gives the game a 
 special feel to it. Also the sound is stunning and the voice actors does a fantastic job creating 
 life to the characters.
  But what really gives the game life is the fantastic music which is far beyond the best ever in 
 a game.
  
  When Michelle Ancel, The creator of the million selling Rayman games, creates a brand new franchise, 
 you should think that people with any interest of games would to nuts. Sadly enough, that did not 
 happen.
  If you have never played Beyond Good & Evil, there is no excuse good enough to buy it, and play 
 to the end.
  Beyond Good & Evil is one of the greatest games in the history of video- and computergames. Period.
 
  
  
  
  Please give me a sequel.... please? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narwaffle
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 16, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  Beyond Good and Evil is nothing short of one of the best games ever designed. It's a masterpiece 
 from the creator of Rayman and his merry band of creative geniuses. Ironically, this game went 
 unnoticed, despite critical acclaim from every corner. Which makes buying the game even more enticing 
 - it's now sold at the bargain bin price of $30.00 AUD. So if you haven't bought this game yet, 
 you don't have any excuse why not. Get out there and buy it! If you need a bit of backing, read 
 on.
  
  Beyond Good and Evil takes place on the planet of Hillys a fair way into the future. You play Jade, 
 a budding photographer who runs an orphanage for children in a lighthouse along with her "Uncle" 
 Pey'j (Pronounced Page) . Hillys is under attack by the Domz, and so the Alpha Sections are sent 
 in to help. But are the Alpha Sections really who they say they are? Jade soon finds herself smack 
 bang in the middle of a planetwide conspiracy. Saying too much about the fabulous story of Beyond 
 Good and Evil is like spoiling the plot of a fantastic movie to someone, so I'll say no more.
 
  
  Beyond Good and Evil itself is presented like a film, the entire game uses a letterbox effect. 
 Motion blur, "depth of field" and wonderful Anti Aliasing help complete the effect. BG&E is a simple 
 platformer some of the time, but the real depth of the game boils down to the sneaking elements. 
 Taking on your enemies head on is going to get you nowhere, so you'll have to opt for the stealthy 
 tactic, which makes for some really tricky puzzles. Jade has several main objectives, but to rake 
 in cash she can also take pictures of the hundreds of animals that pop up throughout the game and 
 send them to the science center. While credits are the ingame currency, most of your main purchases 
 will be bought with pearls, a blackmarket currency. 
  
  The graphics are amazing, by 2003 standards and even hold up well today. Early depth of field effects 
 are used throughout the cutscenes (which run ingame) and generally every trick in the book is used. 
 As you'd expect, you'll see a few blurry textures here and there, but it's really not much of a 
 bother. The character models animate fluidly and seem very lifelike, despite their cartoony look.
 
  
  The sound and voice acting in BG&E is very professional and top notch. There's no doubt about it.
 
  
  There's only about 8 hours worth of gameplay in Beyond Good and Evil, but now that it's being offered 
 at a budget price, it's really your duty as a gamer to get this game and play the whole thing through. 
 This really is one of the greatest games ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zephyrwwong
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Marsterpiece!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Mravelous!!!!!!!!!!!!
  This game is one of the most successful games of Ubi. it'd already better than its father : Rayman. 
 The CG are so real to the game, i can hardly tell the game is already begin after its brief CG, 
 the graphics are soooooooooo amazing.
  If it is a series game, they must be much marvelous than the Prince of Persia's series.
  Pick 
 up your camera!!!!!! Take all the photos you like in the game, not only the creature.
  There is a pity that The photos you took, can have a place to save. The mini games decides are 
 so fantastic! I can't held myself play them again and again. It worths!!!!!!
  But the story seems not end yet. I'm pretty looking forward its next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  
  I had been wanting to try this game for a long time but was unable to find it. I finally got it 
 for very cheap and it was definatley worth it. Aside from the camera problems and control issues 
 this game is an awesome unique game that anyone should play. The characters are all off the wall 
 coo like the talking pig and other talking animals. The level designs are very clever and fun to 
 learn how you are actually supposed to get by a certain area. Mostly the game is half puzzle half 
 combat and is balanced very well. Taking pictures of the various inhabitants of the planet hillys 
 will get you credit to buy health packs and other items. Collecting the hard to find orbs lets 
 you buy parts for your vehicle at mamagos garage owned by a group of jamaican rhinos. The graphics 
 in the game are still very good and stylized and still look good compared to current games. the 
 sound effects and voice overs are all good although some are a bit cheesey. i hate the character 
 the guy who talks to u through holograms tho! geesh that dude is annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss33
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  its great in fisrt look .great graphic, great sound , great storyline and unique gameplay. everything 
 is right and on place .i really couldnt find a weak point on this game except of the fighting system 
 .you only can perform a two kind of combos and thats not good .you have one friend in each mission 
 and he is a big help cuz you cant complete the mission without him and its like good multiplayer 
 game. game has many secret places to find and new unlockable things .its just full of fun and i 
 guaranteed you can enjoy of playing it. i finished it in eleven hours and i think
  its enough time for this kind of game .you playing with young girl [jade] and you must take pictures 
 of suspicious things in company named alpha section and discover the truth about they activities. you 
 have camera in game and you can take picture of any thing you want and make album for your self 
 .you have hovercraft and spacecraft and races to win and many other good things .
  atleast i must tell you if you already played a sly cooper serise you can enjoy of playing this 
 great game 
  beyond good & evil
  
  you can help me a lot by recommending this review and thank you 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sambado484
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2006 12:58 am PT
Review:  I went to GAME to buy worms 3D but I had money left over so i bought Beyond good and evil, I got 
 home played it and i was blown away. This game hasnt got the most amazing graphics in the world 
 but they are still very good. There are a wide variety of characters. Most of the game is just 
 freeroaming around Hilis in your hovercraft later on in the game you get a spaceship. The enemys 
 are interesting and there are a couple of minigames, the enemys are the Domz creatures. When you 
 take pictures of them you get money to buy K-Bups (food) and other stuff including upgrades for 
 your ship. At the mummago garage they only accept pearls as money but they are alot harder to find 
 than just credits.
  
  In summary this games gamplay is amazing, Graphics are superb, music is breathtaking, the value 
 is wonderful and well its amazing. I spent months on this game upto this date I have completed 
 it 4 times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohamadouf
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 15, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  the revolutionary Beyond Good and Evil how cool it was to play that game when i first got my hand 
 on it, it was very different comparing it to the games that were available at the time considering 
 the game was introduced in 2004 the memorable year that had Half Life 2, Doom 3, FarCry and Unreal 
 tournament releases.
  
  when i write a review i always try to make sure to cover the basics like the gameplay, the game 
 graphics, the sound engine and the AI.
  
  for an action adventure game that lets you drive a hovercraft and fight as well as solving puzzels 
 this game made an awsome job.
  
  its abit short indeed but not that short, you can end the game in three to four hours of constant 
 playing but if your still new to this type of games you will need six to ten hours to complete 
 all levels of the game i believe they were five i guess i dont really remember though.
  
  if you can get your hand on a copy for this game, i mean even now at late 2006 with alan wakes 
 new game almost out, i asure you wont regret it , its not like other old adventure games that used 
 horrible graphics that when after a year or two you go on installing them just to find out how 
 bad they looked even if they were GOTYs.
  
  peace..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Beyond Good & Evil is a unique game that somehow manages to successfully combine aspects from adventure 
 and action games with a bit of stealth-action and role-playing sprinkled in. I would say that BGE 
 is like a combination of the action in The Prince of Persia and the adventure of The Longest Journey 
 with some elements of stealth from Thief and some role-playing elements that remind me of Anachronox.
 
  
  The game mostly takes place in a relatively confined area of your homeworld which you immediately 
 begin to defend at the start of the game with the attack from an alien enemy on the lighthouse 
 where you live. Players of The Prince of Persia: Sands of Time might feel at home with the combat 
 in this game. To fight, you move your character in the direction of an enemy and press the mouse 
 button. Your character will attack. You can reverse direction and do a back-flip to get out of 
 the way of a retaliation or to attack a creature on the other side of you. Your combat moves are 
 limited to attacking with your main weapon and a single special move that you can use at any time.
 
  
  Much of the time in the game is spent traveling around your hometown on a hovercraft, engaging 
 in various battles and seeking the answers to the quests you are set upon. You will often find 
 yourself having to puzzle your way through various areas as you look for the hidden door to open, 
 button to press or passageway to crawl through. Occassionally, you will have to use stealth and 
 sneak your way past guards who you could not otherwise take on in combat. You occasionally find 
 yourself in battle against a mini-boss which usually requires some amount of combat skills to tackle. 
 However, there is an adventure component to these battles since each boss has some weakness that 
 once you figure out (and sometimes that can be challenging) makes finishing the job fairly easy.
 
  
  There are two forms of currency throughout the game. You have a bank account of credits which you 
 can obtain from a wide range of sources and with which you can purchase food for healing, repair 
 tools, power-ups, upgrades and a few other items. The second form of currency is pearls which you 
 use to purchase special items necessary to progress through the game. There are a fixed number 
 of pearls in the game and your inventory keeps track of the ones you have found.
  
  One of the first tasks you are given is to begin taking pictures of the local fauna. Every picture 
 of a unique species can be sent to a friend who will pay for for the picture and give you an item 
 after you finish each roll of film.
  
  After that, you become wrapped up in the war that has engaged your planet and you seek answers 
 to the conflict as well as participate in a number of unrelated adventures which generally result 
 in the finding of additional pearls. You can explore the local caves, or put to the test your hovercraft 
 skills in the local races. You can also play some games at the local bar in order to obtain a couple 
 of pearls or win some cash.
  
  The graphics in the game are good and often quite majestic. There's a variety of different plants 
 and animals in the various caves that offer a beautiful and sometimes haunting experience. Much 
 of the time is spent speeding around town on the water whose effects are quite good. Watching a 
 huge whale jump out of the water and splash back in is one of those amazing gaming moments.
  
  The soundtrack is fantastic and very original. It adds a great ambiance to the game and is 
 very enjoyable.
  
  My greatest complaint with the game is that it is too easy. The combat is never very difficult 
 and solving the puzzles never takes very long. Early in the game, you can purchase an animal and 
 a pearl detector that show you on your map exactly where these items are which makes it easy to 
 find every one of them. If these detectors didn't exist, the game would be a lot more challenging 
 in trying to get a full set and also add replay value since there's no way you'd find everything 
 on the first try.
  
  As many other reviewers have noted, the game is also not very long. You can expect 15-20 hours 
 of good gameplay, perhaps more if you decided to play all of the mini-games and set new records 
 for all of the races. The game also has a small feeling to it since you are confined to the local 
 area for most of the game. That all aside, the game is certainly satisfying and worth the play 
 by anyone who appreciates a good game. I found a brand new copy for $7 at my local used-book store 
 so I suggest looking there for a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 5:22 am PT
Review:  When i saw promos for this game i thought it was a bit childish game meant for kids. But i thought 
 lets give it a try. So i bought the game.
  And Man this game entirely changed my opinion.
  The game is simple and clean in all its aspect.
  
  STORY - Now common this game has one of 
 the best stories ever heard.
  and if you feel i m kidding i must tell you that this game won the award for best story in 2003. It 
 revolves around a mysterious girl 'Jade' who works for an agency and helps the citizens of a city 
 against unfair practices done by another rival agency who is taking undue advantage of the innocent 
 citizens.
  In its quest she is helped by his Uncle and one Humourous guy by the name of ' Double H'
  
 
  GAMEPLAY - Gameplay in Beyond Good And Evil is quite good. Nothing New though. You can talk to all 
 persons, engage in many sidequests, and travel through a huge environment. In this game your main 
 weopon would be a Camera. This is something new. Fighting tecniques is too good and just makes the 
 game more playable.
  
  GRAPHICS - Graphics of this game are satisfying. Although they are a bit cartoonish. The game has 
 lavish environments and quite cool effects while in combat.
  
  SOUND - Sound in BGAE is of excellent quality. There are many theme songs for different locations. Voice 
 Acting is decently done.
  
  All in all Beyond Good And Evil is a highly satisfying game meant for everyone who likes good story.
 
  Its one rare adventure game you will find.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bennyco
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 3, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  Apparently this game can make you sometimes crazy by frustrating you of what is next you have to 
 do or where you have to go so don't even dare to try playing it without a walkthrough guide. But 
 after getting into the story line and achieving one goal after another - it catches you.
  
  Only then you appreciate it's complexity and charm. This fantasy action adventure game perhaps 
 is one of the most artistically invested I ever seen.
  If you had played Rayman 2/3 this is probably a game born for your taste.
  Really the graphics 
 are artistically (not realistically) beautiful and sound effects are just right. Above all the 
 story line shines by getting you dive into it's special atmosphere.
  
  It's really a pity that such a good game was commercially a failure. The drawback of this game 
 is after all it's replay value. Although there are many fun levels where you can race, shoot, fight, 
 sneak and avoid laser beams and get puzzles solves, go from the city to the sea, then into caves 
 and mines and finally even fly to the outer space (this game is ambitious) but once you've finished 
 it - second game will not be same again but much less exciter (as you already know the story and 
 the nothing surprises you anymore which is a major part of the game) .
  
  Even though, I would be happy to see more and more folks buying this game because otherwise this 
 unique genre might cease to exist (we might end up left only with countless FPS shooters and race 
 games) .
  
  If UbiSoft guys ever read this review I want them to know that whoever made this game is a genius 
 - let 'em keep shining ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaiden1024
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 3, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  I feel a fondness just writing about this game again , I loved the story and sympathised with the 
 main character.
  
  The graphics of this engine were outstanding when it got released , phenomenal water effects plus 
 cute cartoony graphics running at a nice blip all along.
  
  I hope they release the planned sequels one day even though this game bombed at retail. It's great 
 knowing that people out there will still make fun adventure type games once in a while were it 
 doesn't feel like killing is your main objective. 
  
  If you get the chance to play this game and haven't jump at it , it's usually available as a budget 
 title too so that makes it much easier to foot the bill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sinterkaasie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 28, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS: Absolutely great, really realistic and yet it somehow manages to keep a style of it's 
 own. Everything looks great, the enviroments, the people, the animals, it's all just state-of-the-art.
 
  
  SOUND: The voice-acting is superb, and the so is the music. Every sound and every effect just feels 
 like it belongs in the game, it also has a feel like Rayman when it comes to the music, songs with 
 crazy voices and reggae and music like that that would normally wouldn't fit in a game but Beyond 
 Good and Evil.
  
  GAMEPLAY: This game really has something of everything, you have sneaking parts, where you try 
 to infiltrate some base or building while trying to stay out of the sight of the enemy. You have 
 racing, which is really fun to play and is really exciting too. The vehicles really drive/fly darn 
 smooth. You of course have platform parts, where the camera nearly never fails you and the combat 
 is superb too, nothing in the entire game doesn't feel like it belongs there.
  
  REPLAY: There are plenty of collectibles and such, like pictures of animals and pearls, so it's 
 really worth playing this game another time when you've finished it. Also the complex story might 
 motivate you for playing it again to make everything a bit more clear.
  
  OVERALL: A great, fun game which never stops entertaining you, everything which is in the game 
 belongs in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Games as Beyond Good and Evil are not made often. It is very hard to combine in a game so much 
 innovation, excellent character development, a great plot all held together with tons of imagination. 
 Beyond Good and Evil is all this and a bit more
  
  The plot and characters are such imaginative that makes the game truly unpredictable for the most 
 part, which makes you to stick to the computer for hours and hours of play until you finish it. 
 This is maybe why some people found the game a bit short; because it is so addictive that you have 
 to finish it sooner than later, just as a great book. The combination of simultaneously different 
 tasks all in a way related to each other gives you a rare freedom to play the game the way you 
 want it: you can get obsessed to find all the pearls or take all the pictures, but if you dont 
 do it wont prevent you to finish the game as the main plot will find its way. Add to this an EXTRAORDINARY 
 music score and you will find yourself immerse in the Beyond world to your most enjoyment. You 
 will find yourself unconsciously singing some of the songs in your brain, and some times just cannot 
 resist to singing them out loud.
  
  But the game has some shortfalls that justify me not giving it in a solid ten. First, I found it 
 a bit unstable for NVIDIA cards, particularly mine that is about 2 years old. You have to expend 
 some time going through the configuration to avoid the game to freeze often, and because you cannot 
 save it when you want it but just when you find a disk reader, sometimes you will lose all your 
 accomplishments and will have to walk the way again. Second, the resolution of the plot is not 
 as good as the climax the game reaches, so you can be a bit disappointed with the end of the game, 
 as many things are left open. Not sure if this was done on purpose to make us buy a sequel, or 
 just because they rushed to finish the story and left many open issues
  
  But make no mistake: this game is superb and it will be real shame if you dont give it a try
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phaetonium
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 4, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  It's so clich now to hear people say "Damn... Beyond Good and Evil is such a good game yet no one 
 knows about it" or "it's underrated" because they think it somehow makes them more "hardcore" as 
 a gamer to play these titles that no one knows about. 
  
  Sure it was a decent game, but nothing worth the rave reviews some people give it just because 
 no one bought the damn game... and not worth the fanboy support people have given it, trying to 
 look "cool" themselves.
  
  It doesn't matter what a game is, if no one wants to play it, it won't sell. The concept was stupid 
 and, dare I say, blatantly liberal in the way that highschool teenagers are liberal. "All against 
 the authority, man. Rise up and protest the government dude. Green Day's new stuff rules!" 
  
  Gimme a break. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer_Of_SeeD
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 5, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft has always been well known for their popular Rayman series, but was never really able to 
 break away with any other hits. This all changed of course when the company released the incredibly 
 successful Splinter Cell. After this release, the studio has done nothing but impress with its 
 releases, from Prince of Persia, to this game, Beyond Good and Evil.
  
  Beyond Good and Evil (BG&E) takes 2 parts Zelda, and mixes in 1 part Pokemon Snap. Finally, a nod 
 to Sam Fischer himself adds a bit of stealth to the fray. Sound strange? Well, it is. Yet this 
 all comes together to create one of the best adventure games this generation.
  
  BG&E follows the heroin Jade, who helps out at an old lighthouse taking care of children along 
 with her uncle Pey'J (a pig strangely enough) . The planet is infested with a vile alien race called 
 the DomZ, and only shields and the Alpha Sections (the local enforcements) can protect against 
 them. Jade takes random jobs to pay for various things around the lighthouse, and Jade is contracted 
 to catalogue all the species in Hylis, the world you inhabit. As you begin this cataloging, Jade 
 becomes a part of an underground organization, out to exploit the truth about the DomZ, and the 
 Alpha Sections affiliation with them.
  
  The story in BG&E is very compelling, and especially nearer to the end will tug at your strings, 
 and make you grip your seat. Of course a story doesn't come together without great gameplay. The 
 main gameplay in BG&E is similar to that of a Zelda game, where you find a dungeon, make it to 
 the final boss character, and earn your reward. In this case, Jade is after photos to help create 
 an uprising against the Alpha Sections, as well as earn pearls, a type of currency that some places 
 will only accept.
  
  Travel in the game takes place in three ways. First and foremost being your own feet, but the most 
 intriguing are the later two. Your second means of transportation is a hovercraft, which will take 
 you through most of Hylis' environments. By collecting pearls, you can upgrade your hovercraft 
 to access areas you were unable to access before. In typical Zelda fashion, areas will be inaccessible 
 until you have completed a certain task. The third and final mode of transportation is one that 
 you must find out for yourself, as this would spoil the surprise of it.
  
  Interestingly, BG&E doesn't only allow you to take control of Jade, it also allows you to take 
 control of one or more sidekicks at any given time, which each have their own unique abilities. 
 It's the addition of these sidekicks that make many of the puzzles within the game so intuitive. 
 Only by properly utilizing these sidekicks will you be able to progress.
  
  Of course a game from Ubisoft would have to incorporate some form of stealth, thus in many situations, 
 Jade will have to sneak past Alpha Section patrols, avoiding their line of sight, and continuing 
 on her journey. This includes grabbing onto moving crates, following behind guards, and incapacitating 
 others. If Jade comes within the line of sight of a guard, they will begin to patrol to find you, 
 once spotted, an all out assault will begin that is often impossible to save yourself from.
  
  As Jade, your standard attack comes in the form of a staff, although you will gain a disc shooter 
 later, which is cleverly used in puzzles to unlock doors and incapacitate foes. Attacking with 
 your staff takes a hint from Prince of Persia, where aiming your stick in a certain direction will 
 attack that enemy. The transitional animations aren't as smooth as that of the Prince, but they 
 are still quite good. Although the battles aren't quite as epic as in other games, it gets the 
 job done.
  
  One thing that must be noted is the variety within the game, even though it is mainly an adventure 
 game. Within the main game there are 4 different races to take part in, a slew of chases against 
 bandits, an air hockey styled mini game that is quite addictive, and the old guess which coconut 
 the ball is under game. On top of this, the gameplay often shifts focus from on foot expeditions 
 to hovercraft battles, in which you will have to shoot down DomZ and bring safety once more to 
 the Hylians for a short while. One of the most fun variations within the game is the chase scenes 
 where Jade is discovered and must run away from the Alpha Sections, using the same style found 
 in many Crash Bandicoot games, with the player running frantically towards the screen.
  
  Of course, one of the largest gameplay features is the photography. Throughout the game, you will 
 be cataloguing various animals to earn currency, as well as pearls and various items. On top of 
 this you can use your camera to shoot your M-discs, as well as uncover the secret about the DomZ. 
 On top of this, you can also take various photos for your own personal pleasure, as long as you 
 have room remaining on your roll.
  
  The gameplay elements found within this game are solid, as are the graphical elements. BG&E has 
 a cartoon styled appearance but has well detailed character models and environments. The game has 
 lush and colourful environments, but also uses dark colours at times for emphasis and creates a 
 generally dark and well created setting. The graphics although unrealistic definitely impress. 
 Some instances when various filters are applied cause the game to be downright beautiful. The final 
 boss battle is an example where this game truly excels graphically. Making it to the last boss 
 just so see the graphical style and particle effects at work are worth it.
  
  Onto control, the games land based control works quite well. When exploring, your buttons are used 
 for using various context sensitive objects, running, creeping, using items, and taking photographs. 
 Within combat, the context button is replaced with your combat button, and dodge ability is added. 
 Traveling on foot controls smoothly as it should. The biggest issue with control comes in when 
 you take control of the hovercraft. Granted, a hovercraft won't be the best responding vehicle, 
 but sometimes the wacky control of the hovercraft can be infuriating. Turns are awkward, and the 
 jump has an odd timing to it. Many times I would find myself stuck in a corner or continuously 
 getting zapped by perimeter borders due to the control of the hovercraft.
  
  This brings us to the in game camera. The camera in BG&E is well behaved when on land, but once 
 again the seas bring a downfall. Sometimes when docking the camera will swing in a way that your 
 controller no longer responds the way you think it would causing you trouble to leave a certain 
 area. Luckily the portions of the game where this occurs aren't action oriented portions, but it 
 is still unfortunate. Also at times, the camera would pan out to allow you to see a certain thing 
 in the area, which from a cinematic perspective is intriguing, but causes you to momentarily lose 
 control of your craft once again.
  
  The sound within the game is one of its strongest points. Featuring incredibly well done voice 
 work, the story truly unfolds in front of your eyes. You can hear every ounce of emotion coming 
 from Jade as she continues her search for the truth about the DomZ. Of course every perk has its 
 downfall. Sidekicks will often repeat glib remarks at you when traveling the various dungeons, 
 but they aren't annoying enough to worry about. The sound effects within the game are suitable. 
 You can hear the clang of metal when striking it with your staff, the jets of your hovercraft, 
 and the sound of your shutter when taking photographs, just like you would envision them to be 
 if you were doing any of these things.
  
  In the end, Beyond Good and Evil is one of the year's most solid games. It borrows quite heavily 
 from the Zelda franchise, but does enough differently to make it unique. Aside from some camera 
 issues and the ridiculous amount of blocks needed to save, Beyond Good and Evil never fails to 
 impress. Whether through its inventive gameplay, or gripping storyline, Beyond Good and Evil is 
 a game to own, and since it is priced to own at 29.99, nobody should be able to turn it down.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 1:12 pm PT
Review:  The peaceful planet Hillys is home to an assortment of talking animals and humans alike. It's also 
 set squarely in the crosshairs of the marauding Domz, an alien race who has been terrorizing the 
 citizens of Hillys with daily invasions and kidnappings. It sounds like your ordinary interplanetary 
 warfare until two questions surface: Why would powerful conquerors like the Domz bother to kidnap 
 their victims? And why do the sworn protectors of Hillys show up for battle moments AFTER the kidnappings 
 are complete? Something is amiss. Could the Hillyan government be hiding behind a web of lies? 
 As Jade, a freelance reporter, it's your job to expose the conspiracy, separate truth from lies, 
 and present the evidence to the Hillyan people. And animals. And weird unexplainable creature things. 
 Beyond Good and Evil (BG&E) is the game's title, but the real name of the game here is variety.
 
  
  Gameplay
  Boxshot
  
  Before you can expose the conspiracy you will be chased across rooftops by laser-wielding knights; 
 steer your hovercraft through a minefield in a high-speed street race; collect photographic evidence 
 of conspiracy at several top secret government facilities; break out of your planet's gravity field 
 in your personal spaceship; and enjoy every minute of it. BG&E is short, but what's here is polished 
 and purposeful. There's none of the tedious item-collecting that plagued the middle of Zelda: The 
 Wind Waker. BG&E knows exactly what it wants you to do, and it's the rare game that is a jack of 
 all trades and masters most of what it attempts. All of this variety is wrapped around a twisted 
 story that only gets better the deeper you go. Be sure to stay through the end credits, as polish 
 can be found even here.
  
  Jade has the pleasure of uncove"ring conspiracies with two lovable sidekicks: Pey? j (pronounced 
 "Page?) , and Agent Double H. Pey? j is Jade? s sweet but gruff uncle who happens to be a... pig? 
 Well, at least this pig can joke about his almost being turned into a ham, bacon, or pork dinner. 
 Pey? j comes in handy when you need help in battle or solving a puzzle. He? s laced up a pair of 
 jet boots that launch him in the air for a moment before slamming him into the ground, launching 
 enemies and explosives into the air so you can smash them across the room for massive destruction. 
 Pey? j is also a mechanic, handy with saws and wire cutters..
  
  Agent Double H is best compared to Buzz Lightyear from Disney? s Toy Story. He? s a square- jawed 
 super agent with a small brain and a soft spot for the ?Carlson and Peeters? spy manual. Double 
 H can ram doors down and carries a ground-pounding hammer that, like Pey? j? s jet-boot attack, leaves 
 your foes airborne and perfectly exposed to your super attack.
  
  Dungeon architecture often forces you to leave your sidekicks behind, and since Jade can? t take 
 on the whole Domz army, you? ll have to use stealth: one of BG&E? s highlights. When a guard senses 
 something is wrong he lets out a ?Huh??, the music suddenly swells, and the controller shudders. 
 Veterans of Metal Gear Solid will recognize the feeling. Unfortunately, there are times when you 
 have to ?outwit? the unpredictable game camera. Adjusting the camera sometimes takes as much thought 
 as moving Jade. In fact, you? ll sometimes have to memorize the level layout from a certain angle 
 before moving into the area from another angle. Failure to compensate for the camera often leads 
 to capture. This should not be so.
  
  BG&E doesn? t pamper novices with lots of tutorial. Instead it thrusts you into the action with 
 minimal energy and forces you to figure it out for yourself. Automatic lock-on and auto jumping 
 help simplify thing, but because you start out with only two energy hearts, you can expect to replay 
 combat scenarios over and over again until you get it just right. Fortunately, you re-spawn in 
 the same room with full health each time you die. This works out better than you might think. Less 
 experienced gamers will be challenged to improve their skills, and hardcore players can feel good 
 about getting through an area on the first try.
  
  Both your hovercraft and spaceship control as well as any vehicle in gaming today. True, you can? t 
 pull off advanced maneuvers like barrel rolls, but why should you be forced to learn a complicated 
 control scheme for each new style of gameplay? The team behind BG&E keeps it simple, and in this 
 case keeping it simple keeps it fun.
  
  Graphics
  
  BG&E was in the oven for three years, and it quickly becomes clear that much of that time was spent 
 imagining, creating, and polishing Hillys. Unlike other games that feature either a modern, futuristic, 
 or medieval theme, BG&E goes for the eclectic approach, combining all of those styles. Some of 
 the environments look like they came out of the Aliens movies, while others could have been inspired 
 by a Caribbean island postcard. There? s really no way to summarize the game? s look. But it looks 
 great, has remarkably fast load times, with lots of detail, special effects, and imaginative character 
 design. I played through the beautiful Xbox version and the only problem I encountered was the 
 occasional blocky texture. Word on the street is that the Gamecube has a little trouble handling 
 the special effects, and the PS2 is a step down from that with low-res textures. Regardless, this 
 game looks great even in screenshots.
  
  Screenshot
  
  Sound
  
  Not to be outdone by the variety experts in the graphics and gameplay departments, the people in 
 charge of BG&E? s sound have assembled an international voice cast from many corners of the world. 
 This is the first game I? ve played that has Jamaican rhinos. But it works. The voices are well 
 done and range from annoying to creepy to hilarious. I never got tired of hearing Agent Double 
 H quote from the ?Carlson and Peeters? spy manual (? D. B. U. T. T.., Miss Jade! Don? t Break Up The 
 Team! Carlson and Peeters, page 283!?) . The music isn? t going to win any awards. It? s a mostly 
 forgettable score with some highlights here and there. The sneaking and chasing music is guaranteed 
 to raise your heart rate, as is the climactic score that accompanies the last boss fight. THAT 
 song is still running through my mind a day after the fact. But overall, BG&E? s soundtrack is like 
 finding three great songs on a mediocre CD.
  
  Value
  
  I finished the game in under 13 hours and that? s after finding nearly all the items and talking 
 to everyone. There? s no reason to go back and play through it again, and the only bonus features 
 are a BG&E trailer, a ?Making Of? segment that consists of storyboard art, and the credits. That? s 
 it. But while it is short, what? s here is so sweet that it? s easily worth the recently reduced 
 price of $20 (US) .
  
  Violence
  
  There are some frightening images and jump scenes that may make BG&E inappropriate for younger 
 players, especially since many of the victims are children. The grand conspiracy Jade uncovers 
 may also be unsettling. There is no blood or gore, but most of your defeated enemies explode in 
 a shower of special effects.
  
  Language
  
  BG&E is ERSB rated Teen for ?Violence and Comic Mischief?. Let it be known that the game is not 
 devoid of bad language. One character uses Jesus? name in vain twice, and the Lord? s name once 
 as an exclamation. At the start of a hovercraft race the announcer gives the frail-hearted three 
 seconds to ?get the hell out of here!? Since there? s a fair amount of racing, you can expect to 
 hear that at least three times.
  
  Sexual Content
  
  Jade wears a halter top under her unbuttoned jacket.
  
  Spiritual Content
  
  At the start 
 of the game we see Jade in deep meditation, Buddhist style. One of the characters eventually comes 
 to have mystical powers of healing.
  
  Positive Elements
  
  BG&E gives us a shining demonstration of the ultimate example of friendship: self-sacrifice. Jesus 
 said, ?Greater love has no one than this, that one lay down his life for his friends? (John 15:13) . 
 Pey? j and Double H repeatedly demonstrate a willingness to lay their lives on the line to ensure 
 your survival, and after getting to know them their sacrifice really means something. Players are 
 encouraged to think for themselves, and to do the right thing even when it flies in the face of 
 what is normally acceptable. BG&E also challenges players to observe what? s around them in order 
 to find a solution to a problem.
  
  Conclusion
  
  While the Zelda series is designed to appeal to gamers of all ages, Beyond Good and Evil is perfect 
 for teen and adult gamers who like their quests short and sweet. At a reduced price point of $20 
 (US) the game? s length is no longer an issue. Cautious gamers may still want to keep their distance, 
 but the good in BG&E is leaps and bounds beyond whatever evil can be uncovered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmgoddard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 13, 2005 6:17 am PT
Review:  It's really fun just to play through this game to see the story unfold. It really is like a movie. 
 The animation is well done and at least one of the characters (that computer genie) is pretty funny. 
 The soundtrack is absolutely amazing as well. There are many great songs that play at different 
 times, and the main theme gets played a few times with appropriate and interesting variations. 
 The stealth dynamic works pretty well in this game too. And if you get frustrated with the stealth 
 in one section or another, there is usually a way where you can battle it out to complete the task. 
 The puzzle element of the game is a lot of fun; just don't expect the puzzles to be as challenging 
 as most adventure or puzzle games.
  
  There are a few things that don't work so well for the game. First, it is pretty short. There are 
 really only two main areas (dungeons) that make up the majority of the game. There are a lot of 
 fun things to do on the side, but they don't last too long. Also, this game is way easy. There 
 are no difficulty settings, so those looking for a good challenge best look elsewhere. Many of 
 the boss fights can be finished in about 20 seconds or less once you learn the tricks for the battle 
 (which can be learned very quickly as well) . There are quite a few boss fights though, which are 
 pretty fun even though they aren't very challenging. Keyboard and mouse configurations don't work 
 so well either. It's probably a good thing some of the challenges are easy to begin with, because 
 you will be fighting a bit with the controls in some parts. Ubisoft probably should have spent 
 longer on the PC adaptation. The whole presentation seems geared 99% towards consoles.
  
  I recommend this game to people who like good stories and don't care too much if they aren't challenged; 
 also it's good non-violent fun, so you pacifists and youngsters out there can have some good clean 
 fun.
  
  You can direct download it now from certain direct download stores for about $20.00, so it is a 
 pretty good value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gackt_2305
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2005 4:44 pm PT
Review:  i feel like i'm a 8 years old boy playing videogame for the first time in my life,
  
  this game really make me feel like i'm a gamer.
  
  the good :
  1. ahhhhhhhhhhhhh
  2. the 
 movie plot, i'm feeling like watching a movie rather than a a game
  3. story, actually the story is a little bit childish, i could use some :)
  4. stunning graphic
 
  5. very creative photo mode
  6. cool enviroment and animal
  7. stong relation beetween character
  8. almost (as i know ) no bug
  9. stuning scene everywhere
 
  
  the bad :
  not long enaugh, quite a short game for 3 cd but i enjoyed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KnarfKenobi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 9:01 am PT
Review:  Great game! It has a great story that keeps you playing form the beginning to the end. It has humor, 
 action and 'drama'. It is perfect. The missions are very much fun AND very good , the extra's are 
 fun and the caracters great. The grapichs are just good. The feeling is... hmm... absolutly perfect.. it 
 keeps you curios and it's very fine to play with. It's actually one of my favo games. The puzzles 
 are a challenge, not so hard and not to easy just good. It's a pity that this game didn't get so 
 much attention as it's deserve. But the gamer who doesn't follow the crowd knows this game. In 
 the Netherlands this game is 25 euro's, but it's worth twice. What are you waiting for? Go to the 
 shop and buy this game! It's a shame you even read this review! Now you can spend less time with 
 this great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 10, 2005 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Beyond Good and Evil places you in the shoes of Jade, a woman who lives on the planet Hillys. You 
 live on a small island with a lighthouse and basically take care of orphans. Your planet is involved 
 with a battle against an alien race called the Domz. The Domz are evil creatures that hurl monsters 
 at your planet from space and attack you with the intent of capturing the entire planets population.
 
  
  The great thing about this story is that your protagonist is so real. At least she seems to be. 
 I for one, want to thank Ubisoft for creating a female protagonist that does not have to have a 
 gravity defying chest for one thing. And she comes across with such emotion and poise. You truely 
 feel her character growing as the story moves on. Supporting characters like Pey'j your adopted 
 father, Double H and most of the NPC characters in the game seem fleshed out and alive. They are 
 always doing something different each time I would see them. 
  
  The game is also an example on how to export a console game to the PC. the controls are tight and 
 feel well thought out. I was never confused by the layout and was never killed in battle due to 
 the key layout.
  
  Graphically, the game is really good. When taken into context of the time it was made, the game 
 is graphically stunning. I for one liked the stylized look of the game. There were no clipping 
 issues and the game flows at 1280x1024. The color palatte was quite esquisite using a wide spetrum 
 to create the Hillys world. 
  
  Sound was another thing that really moves this game. It is a great sounding game. Lots of good 
 ambient sounds and the score in the background is just amazing. From the bo staff attack to the 
 electricity that flowed unabated, the sounds brought the world to life. Just amazing.
  
  So what is the problem with the game. What goes wrong. Well, not much really. Some of the combat 
 is repeated stylewise due to a limited move set. Not really a big deal. I did have some issues 
 with how hard the last guy was compared to the rest of the game. It was like a big time ramp up 
 in the difficulty level. Length was not an issue, because the game was so good, but if length is 
 a big deal to you, you might want to skip it. But that would be shame on you. 
  
  In the end, Beyond Good and Evil, is one of those games that is heralded by the media and in the 
 know gamers praise without end. But all the hoopla does not translate into dollar signs and the 
 rest of the proposed trilogy gets axed from further development. If you get a chance to play this 
 game, please do. I feel confident in saying that you will feel great the minute you finish the 
 game and you will be yearning for the sequel that will never happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadtor
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 18, 2005 10:00 am PT
Review:  I bought Beyond Good and Evil after playing the free demo. It is a pleasent, goodlooking game with 
 great sounds and music. The game has a great story that really captivates you during the whole 
 game. 
  
  The persons have each there own character which makes you feel that you start to know the characters 
 en know how they're going to react. The best part of the game is the freedom you have. It is not 
 a point-to-point-game where you have to complete a thing before being able to start the next thing. 
 You have freedom to explore the city and the other places, taking pictures, earning money, betting, 
 buying, ... It give a whole new dimension to this game which a personally realy liked.
  
  The game is not that hard to play and that's also something that I liked. While in other games 
 you can try and try and try again, the puzzles in BG&E are quite logic after a few tries. So you're 
 never really stuck. For the hardcore puzzle-freaks is this game no recommendation, for all the 
 others --  Yes!
  
  Negative points? Well, sometimes the camera has a certain angle which makes it difficult to react 
 to the environment. And it's true, the game is pretty short. Nevertheless do I really recommend 
 this game to everyone who likes to puzzle (not too difficult) , likes some action, likes the freedom 
 in a game and a great story. And don't forget the great images and sounds. 
  
  Still hesistating? Download the free demo, try and buy :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maknathol
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 12, 2005 5:50 am PT
Review:  some may say that this game is too childish, too short, a simple combat system etc....
  But there is something about it that just nulifies all these shortcomings, and its the quality 
 and the quantity of love that has been poured into it.
  You can feel it from the very first scenes where jade is doing yoga, and very calm tune is playing 
 that youre going to have an amazing expierience. 
  The developers were forcing me to understand and immerse myself in the story, and i liked it, because 
 it kept me wanting more. i am tired of brainless games wich only goal is to aim and shoot (gta) .
 
  
  as for gameplay, i cant say its perfect, i do agree that the combat system lacked a bit, i was 
 expecting more, but the introduction of stealth was nice. and the combat that went in the vehicles 
 was really awesome, from battling alien serpents with a hovercraft, to shooting down alien shuttles 
 in outer space, so in terms of quantity and depts, it was all good, from combat, to the perles, 
 to taking photographs of the animal life on the planet (wich i found it to be a trully original 
 idea) .
  
  The graphics were really eye catching, like the glowing of the water as ur passing above it in 
 the hovercraft.
  
  One more thing, the thing that made me love it even more, was because it was hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowcuz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 29, 2005 6:50 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft's Beyond Good and Evil is an action/adventure game which borrows a few elements from the 
 Legend of Zelda series. Its easily a great action/adventure that shouldnt be missed.
  
  Story: An alien race known as the DomZ are doing constant attacks on a planet called Hillys. The 
 Alpha Sections are an organization that helps fight against the DomZ. The main character Jade, 
 helps uncover the secrets about the Alpha Sections and the DomZ.
  
  Graphics: BG&E looks have pretty solid graphics. The environments looks fantastic and the character 
 models dont look that bad. Theres different types of characters such as goats, pigs, cats, humans, 
 you name it. Its very much like your typical sci-fi world.
  
  Gameplay: The closest thing the gameplay resembles is Zelda and its pretty much your standard action/adventure 
 game. You travel between areas by using a hovercraft and you can upgrade your hovercraft by collecting 
 pearls and trading them for parts. In order to earn some money, you have to take pictures of animals 
 and send them in the science ficility to get some cash so you can buy items. The combat isnt deep 
 but its fun. You have your standard attack by just rapidly pressing attack, then you can spin around 
 by timing your attacks. Enemies arent difficult, all you have to do is just keep attacking it. 
 The boss fights are really cool but whats disappointing is that they're short and arent that difficult 
 but fun nonetheless. By the way, the game is really short.
  
  Music/Sound: The voice acting is pretty solid and sound really good. BG&E has a really wonderful 
 soundtrack composed by Christophe Heral. The music in the game are different combinations of electronic, 
 orchestrated, and mixtures of symphonic cues. My favorite song is called Dancing with DomZ.
  
  Value: The game is really short and the replay value is there if you want to collect all the 
 pearls. I suggest a rent, but since its cheap just go buy it. You cant go wrong either way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spinoff
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 12, 2005 3:24 am PT
Review:  It takes a great deal to be innovative in todays video game market, but Beyond Good and Evil from 
 Ubisoft achieves this status through a combination of charming characters, strong storyline, and 
 highly engaging environments which make it the best action-adventure since Legend of Zelda: The 
 Wind Waker.
  
  The protagonist for the story is Jade, a young aspiring photojournalist who along with her inventive 
 man-pig uncle Peyj live in an island lighthouse serving as caretaker for a group of orphans. From 
 the beginning of the game we experience the attention to detail and story which forms BG&Es charm. 
 In a series of non-narrated scenes we experience Jades life in the lighthouse, the children she 
 cares for, and episodes of her daily life. It is this immediate connection which the character 
 which will motivate the player to act immediately when the imperialist alien Domz attack the lighthouse 
 in an attempt to kidnap the children and cause their usual havoc upon the residents of Hylis, the 
 planet where Jade resides. 
  
  Initially the story revolves around the threat of the Domz and their attempts to conquer the planet 
 and enslave the population. The citizens of Hylis are protected by the Alpha Section, a Special 
 Forces unit created to combat the Domz threat, but all is not what it seems. Jade is contacted 
 by a mysterious stranger who recruits her for a reconnaissance mission for an underground movement, 
 and from there the storyline takes off. Without giving too much away, it can be said that the storyline 
 is full of revelations, twists, turns, and everything else that makes for Grade A storytelling 
 and one of the most enjoyable and original storylines in years.
  
  Core game play in BG&E is for the most part standard action-adventure fare, and for the most part 
 the least appealing aspect of the game. Jade has a limited repertoire of moves at her disposal, 
 and only two often-used weapons. The limited combat system is due in fact mostly because in most 
 instances Jade will be avoiding combat and it is here a large stealth aspect comes into play. Working 
 for an underground movement, Jades primary goals are infiltration and reconnaissance, and as a 
 result it is far better to not be seen by any nosy enemies in the locations she visits. While far 
 from the depth of dedicated stealth games like Splinter Cell, the stealth aspect is a welcome change 
 from most action-adventure titles and makes for some very enjoyable episodes as Jade often faces 
 overwhelming odds to achieve her goals.
  
  In addition to standard on-foot action, Jade also has a trusty hovercraft (and later spacecraft) 
 at her disposal for travel and exploration around Hylis, and also to use in a series of races to 
 earn valuable items. The off-foot game play is a nice break from the other parts.
  
  As a photojournalist, Jade always has a camera at her disposal, and it is the primary item in her 
 inventory. Each mission usually requires Jade to take photos of certain objects a la the scanning 
 system of Metroid Prime, and a game-spanning side quest involves taking pictures of every single 
 organism in the game to receive valuable funds and items from a science facility. Taking snapshots 
 is simple and can be saved to a memory card for future viewing and sharing if you wish.
  
  A quick note on graphics: BG&E is simply gorgeous. The land of Hylis is vibrant and bright, with 
 plenty of small details which give the land some personality. Characters all have a well-done cartoony 
 feel to them, with well-done animations. Bland factory-style locations mar some of the dungeons 
 in the game, but otherwise the atmosphere is excellent.
  
  Sound is also excellent. Nearly every character is voice acted with a surprising level of quality, 
 originality, and variation in the voices. There are plenty of jokes and moments of humor laced 
 with the serious storyline which create an enjoyable mix. The game never takes itself too seriously 
 except until the very end, and that is part of the charm.
  
  If there is one glaring weakness in BG&E, it is the length. While comparable to most action-adventure 
 titles, the game still feels too short when compared with the length which the developers went 
 to in order to establish the world of Hylis and the characters which reside in it. Still in the 
 time it lasts BG&E is an amazing experience and is an incredible achievement which should not be 
 missed by any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2005 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Once in a while a game comes along that slips under the radar but impresses any who actually get 
 a chance to play it. Beyond Good & Evil is precisely that game. I remember hearing about this game, 
 trying it for fifteen minutes, and acknowledging its promise only to put it down. Its just one 
 of those games that does that because you know if you dont put the controller down itll suck 
 your time away until you beat it. When I knew I had enough time to pick up the controller again 
 I found that BG&Es technical aspects, story and gameplay were so well done that I fail to see 
 how gamers could miss this one.
  
  The game starts off with you as a character named Jade. She is immediately thrust into battle against 
 aliens called the Domz with whom the planet Hillys is at conflict with. The Alpha Sections are 
 those that protect Hillys but certain events lead you to question that. Jade is a photographer 
 and that is precisely what her missions comprise of. She is usually sent in to investigate an area 
 and to bring back photographic evidence. You will have to use exploration, puzzle-solving, stealth 
 and combat to infiltrate these areas. The combat is very simplistic and easy enough for anyone 
 to get into. Often youll get to work with other characters such as a human-like pig called Peyj, 
 other times youll get to control a hovercraft which is a lot of fun as it handles quite nicely. 
 There are lots of mini-games like races, but I wont spoil anymore. The gameplay overall has a 
 classic action/adventure feel to it.
  
  On a technical note, BG&E has beautiful graphics. The animations are well done. The whole environment 
 has an exaggerated and stylised feel that combines both an organic and a futuristic setting. The 
 graphics are crisp, colourful and inviting. It is also worth mentioning that the soundtrack is 
 excellent  it has the right blend of cheerful music and, for your more covert operations, suspenseful 
 music. I played both the xbox and the PC versions of the game and I must add that you dont lose 
 anything on either platform. However, it is important to note that the xbox gamepad seemed more 
 suited whilst controlling Jade and the hovercraft especially, but the PC versions graphics had 
 a superior look.
  
  One of the only complaints one might have is that the game might feel a little on the short side 
 for an action/adventure title. Nevertheless, BG&E is a fantastic game on all levels and shouldnt 
 be missed. All elements are executed well and it is hard to believe how this game failed commercially, 
 perhaps ruining any chance for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 2, 2005 6:55 am PT
Review:  Its hard to describe some games just because they don't fit the mold and have that certain "je 
 ne sais quois" quality. I don't know what the exact elements were, but I absolutely enjoyed the 
 experience, so much so that I am more than willing to overlook the few short falls of the game.
 
  
  The Good:
  - Offers a unique mix of game play elements
  - Stylized graphics and matching sound.
  - A very enjoyable and satisfying experience.
  
 
  The Bad:
  - Too short.
  - Can be frustrating for those of you who don't like platformers
  
  The Ugly:
  - PC controllers 
 SUCK! nor does the pc version support gamepad. Stick with the Xbox version.
  
  
  Final words:
  This game is worth getting for the 10-14 hours of fun it offers. Hard to describe 
 this game, don't expect it to be like other games you have played, keep your mind open and you'll 
 find this game to be thoroughly enjoyable.
  
  Retail, eBay or Never"
  Worth buying to add to your collection though I would check eBay first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yasso
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 30, 2005 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Few things in this game could've been changed and improved to *easily* make it get a 9+ rating 
 and become a classic. I personally would've put a Reviewer's Tilt of 10 instead of 9, to push my 
 average score from 8.9 to 9.2. But I personally can't give a tilt of 10 to a game where my alter 
 ego "brings back to life" an NPC, after the NPC was dead (just me and resurrection in games) , *especially* 
 when that NPC happens to be a "talking pig"! Furthermore, that talking pig happens to be a main 
 character in the game, and unfortunately it seems that part 2 of "Beyond Good & Evil" will revolve 
 more around him! Other than that, I would've easily given it a tilt of 10, to make the average 
 9.2.
  
  The story of this game is innovative enough (set aside the "talking pig" part) , and very immersive. 
 I absolutely loved the immersiveness in it, especially because it is one of very few games out 
 there today that has "emotion" in the twists of the story and the events. And I keep going on about 
 the "talking pig" part not just because it is a pig, and not just because it is a main character, 
 but also because the developers spoilt some of the best emotional scenes in the game by making 
 them revolve around the darn pig! He's supposed to be my "uncle" in the game? Jeez! I'm really 
 so annoyed especially about spoiling the emotional scenes around the pig. Anyway...
  
  Some action parts are done extremely well, and with the music can easily make you feel the thrill 
 that you may feel with certain action movies. I actually played one of its action scenes twice 
 in a row, just because I liked it too much. It was one of the best action short levels I've ever 
 played in my whole life, with the music, the slow motion, and all. Some of the more emotional scenes 
 and twists might make you smile and feel attached to the NPC that follows you the most in the game, 
 Double H. I absolutely loved this guy, very great voice acting, and very decent animation to back 
 up the excellent voice acting.
  
  I would easily recommend this game to any female gamer, and would recommend it to male gamers who 
 are into adventure games. I would also say it is worth the money, whether for buying or renting. 
 However, you can finish the game in about 25 hours, and it may have a slight replayability value 
 if you really like it, so put that in mind when deciding to buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seerix
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 18, 2004 8:29 am PT
Review:  This game is a good example how such a "simple" game can be sooo much fun. Here is the short of 
 it:
  
  Story: the one thing that really dragged me through the game.
  
  Gameplay: the controls work great, once you get used to them. But I always had the feeling I should 
 be able to do much more than turn in enemy's direction and click to attack. The stealth missions 
 were my favourite. Not as great as Splinter Cell, but still great. What really improves the score 
 is addition of the hovercraft, beluga and companions. Animal picture hunting: never saw the point, 
 but still, you get something to do besides kicking the Alpha sections' ass.
  
  Graphics: Overall the graphics looks pretty good. I really liked the slow motion blurred cutscenes 
 that expressed Jade's emotions (like the one when lighthouse was destroyed...) . The good impression 
 is spoiled sometimes by bad camera positioning and not having the ability to turn around.
  
  Sound: Some of the best voice acting EVER heard. Some of the most original music - although 
 it gets tiring (like the music in Acuda bar) . At first I considered giving it a '7', because at 
 times the sound crashed and only restarting the game helped.
  
  Value: Maybe you'll play this game many times, but after you get all the pearls, take picture of 
 all animals... you'd rather play a sequel.
  
  Tilt: What can I say - this game will stay in my memory forever.
  
  So should you buy it? If 
 you like games like Prince of Persia: SoT or Rayman - yes. If you like The Longest Journey or Syberia 
 - this one is a little different, but yes. If you want to play something highly original, then 
 yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gnerma
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 4, 2004 3:37 am PT
Review:  Soon after the game begins, the heroine Jade finds herself lashed helplessly within the tentacles 
 of a strange alien being. As her captor's face (for lack of a better word) draws closer, a sublimely 
 believable look of disgust and outright fear creeps across her face. The being then begins to speak 
 in a abrasive, distored language as if it were trying to force some sick alien idea into Jade's 
 subconscience. The scene shows off the game's strongest points and is absolutely captivating. Unfortunately, 
 this early promise of greatness is not kept. Beyond Good & Evil features strong artistic presentation 
 and successfully puts together a lot of promising gameplay elements however it fails to provide 
 any challenge or depth.
  
  Since release in the holiday season of 2003, Beyond Good & Evil has been trumpeted across every 
 digital field & valley as the poster child for video game originality. The gaming press adored 
 Rayman creator Michel Ancel's 3 year labor of love. However along with the praise, there was an 
 underlying sadness to much of the coverage. Many (if not most) professional writers expected the 
 game to fail financially. In that regard, they were not disappointed. The sales were dismal, leading 
 to a much publisized crash in the games price just a few months after release. Many retailers purged 
 what must have been large surplus' for 20 USD or less. Following the financial failure of the game 
 it has become the poster child for those who believe the game industry does not support original 
 ideas or new properties well.
  
  The story of Beyond Good & Evil is set on the fantastical sci-fi planet of Hillys. Hillys is at 
 war with an invading alien force called the domZ. The Alpha Section (who are occupiers operating 
 outside of the Hillys army) are defending the population from the constant attacks. The player 
 controls Jade, a young female character with green eyes and greener lipstick. Jade makes her money 
 as a freelance reporter and also runs a makeshift orphanage out of her home which also happens 
 to be a lighthouse. Also living at the lighthouse is Pey'j, a fat swine with a loud southern accent.
 
  
  As the game opens, the lighthouse is stuck in the middle of a domZ attack. Nobody is hurt and nothing 
 is damaged but the event leaves the characters shaken. Soon after, a message from a mysterious 
 man arrives prompting a secret meeting. Through this meeting and the use of her reporting skills, 
 Jade quickly gets involved in trying to uncover the conspiracy involving the Alpha Section and 
 the domZ. The game makes little effort to hide the conspiracy given the obviously evil Alpha Section's 
 skull logo, the mean & unpleasent look of their leader, and the wall of over the top transparent 
 propaganda blanketed upon the citizens of Hillys.
  
  The area in which the game takes place is a rather small collection of lush islands covered with 
 patchwork fields and surrounded by water. Flying cars and oddly designed planes mull about alongside 
 ordinary looking sea vessels going about their randomly programmed business. The anemic size of 
 the gameworld is disappointing but understandable. Although there is some exploring to do, the 
 world isn't meant to be played around in for extended periods of time as in the Grand Theft Auto 
 games. The world's primary purpose is to get you from point A to point B, and quickly.
  
  Beyond Good & Evil is original, but only because it combines many pre-established gameplay conventions 
 into one package like an interactive Frankenstein monster. The game's foundation is built firmly 
 upon the tradition of the Legend of Zelda games. You travel around the game world, occasionally 
 talking to people, and completing 'dungeons' to progress. The game also mixes in a fair amount 
 of vehicular travel, combat, and racing. Sprinkle on basic stealth elements and a few collection 
 tasks reminiscent of Pokemon and you've got Beyond Good & Evil.
  
  Jade's hovercraft serves as the only means of travel around the game world. You cannot get out 
 and walk to your destination which is forgiveable since you're traveling on water 95% of the time. 
 Upgrades to your hovercraft's weapon system and exploration capabilities are available throughout 
 the game. There are combat sequences in the hovercraft but they are few and far between. When you 
 do have to fight in the hovercraft, its a steer around and fire your energy gun with unlimited 
 ammo at the enemy until it dies kind of affair.
  
  The hovercraft is easy to control overall, but Beyond Good & Evil's number one annoyance presents 
 itself in one of its most frustrating incarnations in this mode. I am speaking of the camera. The 
 game's camera fights your input like a 4 year old not wanting to go to bed. For instance, if you 
 are accelerating forward in the hovercraft and try to turn the camera to the left or right with 
 mouselook, it will push your view back towards the direction your heading. If you let off the gas, 
 it lets up and gives you a 360 degree range. Similarly indecisive camera behavior is observed at 
 times on foot. After walking through an area that allows you full control of the camera you may 
 come to a room in which the camera insists on a much narrower perspective. You still have limited 
 control, but if you push the boundaries the camera pushes back. This muddled behavior on the part 
 of the game's camera is what makes it so frustrating since you never know if you have control or 
 not, you just have to test it. I'll admit that guiding the camera for the player at times can be 
 helpful or even preferred if one is playing on a console or PC gamepad, however it feels limiting 
 when using a mouse.
  
  Throughout the game Jade is given a few simple collection tasks. Pictures of Hillys' species are 
 taken with the camera you are given in the beginning of the game and serve as your primary source 
 of units (the game's currency) which is necessary to buy minor non plot essential things such as 
 health restoration items. You'll also have to collect pearls (which are large jems that creepily 
 enough seem to be the dead brains of the domZ) . You use these to buy plot advancing items such 
 as hovercraft parts.
  
  When on foot, the game plays much like any other 3rd person action/adventure title. Jade has a 
 weapon which she whips out when it is needed and you smash on a single attack button to make Jade 
 perform impressively martial arts combos. Jade has a special power move that you can use to attack 
 in all directions, however I found myself rarely ever using it since the enemies in the game aren't 
 the type to sit around and wait for you to charge it up. Your partner can also be called upon to 
 help in combat with the press of a single button. Overall, fighting in the game is unchallenging 
 and sadly depthless, even during the few boss fights.
  
  The stealth sequences are straight out of Metal Gear Solid. Jade's enemies will either be standing 
 in place looking one way, walking in a small easy to track pattern or turning 90 degrees to the 
 left or right. It's very simple to navigate these situations if you've played harder stealth games 
 before. If you are caught you are either immediately zapped by an instant death laser (a cheap 
 trick to force stealth is some rooms) or, if no laser is present, you can run around a corner ten 
 feet away and try again a few seconds later which is about how long it takes for your enemies' 
 attention spans to run out.
  
  When you're not fighting or avoiding detection on missions you'll be solving movement puzzles which, 
 like combat often involving teamwork between Jade and her ever-present companion. Just like the 
 rest of the game, this element proves to be quite easy. If you do get stuck your companion will 
 quickly drop a strong hint as to where to go or what to do.
  
  There are a few side quests you can choose to perform if you wish. Sadly, none of them are very 
 difficult or interesting. First off, there are four different hovercraft tracks you can race on 
 to win some extra cash and pearls. There are also four optional sequences where you use your hovercraft 
 to chase after another vehicle through long caves full of mines and various other obstacles trying 
 to stop your pursuit. Lastly a few not so hidden caves offer on foot exploration and combat. Seeking 
 out and completing these side quests are recommended since Beyond Good & Evil is a bit skinny on 
 content quantity.
  
  You may be noticing a theme when it comes to the game's difficulty. Just about everything you have 
 to do in Beyond Good & Evil is very easy. You cannot save anytime you want but there are save points 
 around just about every corner. Even if you happen to die, it matters little since you start over 
 at the beginning of the room or battle in which you died.
  
  Graphically the game has a well produced cartoonish design. The environments you guide Jade through 
 are colorful and often quite whimsically beautiful. The character models are hit and miss however. 
 Jade herself was obviously the subject of endless tweaking and polishing, but as you get lower 
 on the character totem pole models lose polycount and move somewhat woodenly. Most of the water 
 in the game is of the 'shiny' pixel shaded variety, but you'll need a DirectX 8 or later capable 
 graphics card to see it. The water looks generally good although, the effect wasn't implemented 
 everywhere. For example if you look at the ocean from the lighthouse island the surface appears 
 as a flat blue texture.
  
  The general sound effects of Beyond Good & Evil work well. The cutscenes are well scored, and the 
 soundtrack consists of high quality, varied tracks. The songs in the game run the gamut from a 
 fleshed out piano ballad when flying across the waters of Hillys, to a crunchy electronic chug 
 when behind enemy lines. The voice acting is passable, but the game commits one of the cardinal 
 sins of production cost cutting, it uses too few actors to perform the parts. The voice of Jade, 
 voices the children in the lighthouse. Pey'j's voice is also the race announcer. The science center 
 contact also voices the Govenor & another minor female character. Although you see this in many 
 games, it's frustratingly noticeable in Beyond Good & Evil. To give you an example, Jade sometimes 
 communicates with other characters through a voice mail system. At one point, you recieve voice 
 mails from 3 different people, all voiced by the same actress who makes little effort to distinguish 
 each character.
  
  The game is short, I logged only 11.5 hours my first run through and that is with doing most of 
 the side quests the devs put it to mix things up a bit. Due to the linearity of the game replayability 
 is questionable. I wish I could say I liked the game more than I did, but after being quite thouroughly 
 captivated in the first hour or so, it started losing me. The game so babies you with simple puzzles, 
 easier yet combat and a ridiculously forgiving continue system I found myself on autopilot wondering 
 when the game would get challenging.
  
  The game's challenge being sacrificed to a wide target audience and modern video game pacing would 
 be okay if the story was complex and well focused and the characters were better developed, but 
 it was not, and they were not. Admittedly, a younger or less experienced gamer would probably enjoy 
 the game for the same major reasons I did not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookiecutter
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 27, 2004 6:56 am PT
Review:  Beyond Good & Evil could best be described as primer for those looking to get into the action/adventure 
 or stealth genres. It's got a little bit of this and little bit of that, and is fairly lightweight 
 in both action and stealth, but it's the rest of the elements that really make BG&E a worthwhile 
 purchase.
  
  The game doesn't mess about, thrusting you into the thick of the action from the word go. It's 
 an incredibly well scripted sequence, and sets up the story, the characters, the action, and the 
 setting.
  
  It's a well concieved and realised story as well - that of a planet under attack from the alien 
 DomZ and the Alpha Sections that appear to be coluding with them. 
  
  The world in which you inhabit is incredibly detailed. There are boats on the water, planes in 
 the air, rolling hills, cities and caves. Best of all are the actual inhabitants of Hillys, who 
 are actual people, walking around doing their business and having discussions, rather than just 
 standing around waiting for you to talk to them. 
  
  It is the characters that are BG&E's strongest point, especially the lead, Jade. You find yourself 
 believing in them and their cause. The mix of humanoid and "alien" creatures is a nice touch.
 
  
  The story sees you recruited by the IRIS network to uncover the truth about the Alphas involvment 
 in the attacks. This will take you to an old factory to rescue a fellow member, and to the old 
 slaughterhouses, and then finally to the moon where the DomZ are waiting.
  
  Along the way, there are hovercraft races, magazines to subscribe to, and items to collect. Probably 
 the most interesting thing you can do is use your camera to take pictures of all the wildlife on 
 the planet. Doing this enough times gets you rewards from equipment to pearls to special disks. 
 Finding the wildlife can be fun, especially if there's a set of circumstanses that must be met 
 if you are to find them.
  
  One thing that might turn people off this game is the length. There's only 4 or 5 major sections 
 of the story, and once they're done with, they're done with. You are free to revist any sections 
 that you've run through, however, and there are a fistful of side-missions which you can complete 
 for rewards. In fact, some of these side-quests are necessary in order to claim enough pearls to 
 afford upgrading your craft to get you to the moon. Having said that, the game could have used 
 a few more boss battles or another area to explore. 
  
  Another aspect is the previously mentioned lightweight action and stealth sections. The action 
 is easy enough to handle - just hit the mouse button and Jade will start swinging. It allows you 
 change direction mid-swing as well, in case you find yourself surrounded. The problem here is, 
 with the exception of the Alphas and the bosses, all the enemies are a bit thick. Stealth is the 
 other problem. While some of the stealth areas are fun, there are times when you'd just rather 
 break out the moves than wear out your sneakers. There are some sections, though, where you don't 
 get an option. If you're discovered, you're history.
  
  You get the feeling, too, that all you do is move from one set of problems to the next. This sort 
 of enforces the feeling of it being a linear game with not much scope, although the situations 
 you find yourself in are varied enough to not warrant such concern.
  
  There's a nice little backup system in place, just in case you get in trouble. Should you or your 
 companion buy it, instead of flashing a "Game Over" at you, you get taken back to the start of 
 the sequence you were on, with 4 hearts of health. It's a interesting tack to take, and certainly 
 saves a lot of frustration from walking into a trap, getting killed and having to start all over 
 again, or from the last save point.
  
  There are some brilliant sequences to be had - the chase sequences are incredible, for example, 
 which you'll find by doing some of the side-quests. The boss battles are excellent, well set up 
 and executed, particularly the final battle. The sea serpent battles are a little boring, though. 
 The battle with the Alphas General is fun, and the DomZ robot also puts up an interesting challenge.
 
  
  The game's cutscenes are amazing. It's all done in-engine and the quality shows. The whole game 
 has incredibly high production values, particularly in the graphics and level design. The sound 
 is another strong point, the soundtrack taking its influences from all manner of music, from speed 
 metal, to classical, to trip hop, to mariachi. 
  
  If I was to compare this game to a game of the past, I'd have to pick Legend of Zelda: Majora's 
 Mask. A lot of the simplistic gameplay - the combat, platform jumping, boss battles etc - has much 
 in common with that game. Sure, Jade is a little more versitile than Link, and prettier, but the 
 comparison is there.
  
  It's a shame, though, that there's a 10% missing somewhere. Whether it's missing from the gameplay, 
 the level design or whatever, it's missing something that would make it absolutely stand out from 
 the crowd. 
  
  One gets the feeling by the end that there's still a lot of story left to be told. There's cetainly 
 scope for a sequel if Ubisoft's up for it, but it's a cheap trick to withhold some of the story 
 just for that.
  
  Having said that, you'd have to try extremely hard to be disapointed by this game. It's a story 
 you can sink your teeth into, with characters you can believe in and a cause worth fighting for, 
 all set in a wonderfully realised world. I can heartily recommend this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobdillon
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 14, 2004 11:51 am PT
Review:  Ok, let me qualify my comments by saying that Beyond Good & Evil is the first third-person action/platform 
 game I have played in a LONG while. Furthermore, I am a complete first-person adventure/shooter 
 addict. That being said I REALLY liked this game! The story and characterisation are spot on and 
 the game world it just superb. The fact is that I spent most of my time wishing that more first-person 
 games had this sort of imagination! I know, I know, they are completely different kettles of fish. 
 However, it does say a lot that this game left that much of a mark.
  
  Now, while the game content is unquestionably great, the game as a whole is not without its problems. 
 Some of the game play and technical aspects are decidedly mediocre. In particular three things 
 really stand out - the camera, combat, and the rather intrusive (although excellently played) cut 
 scenes.
  
  In my experience third-person game cameras are notoriously unstable. Indeed, this is one of the 
 reasons that I like first-person games so much. However, the one used in this game is VERY inconsistent. 
 It seems to change its sensitivity with almost every other room you enter, not to mention whether 
 you are walking or crouching or using a vehicle! Unfortunately in many cases this makes what should 
 be seamless movement into a struggle to see where you are going.
  
  While the basic (some may say intuitive) combat is fun, I did get the impression that it could 
 have done with something else. In other words combat sections were fun, but felt thin. Having said 
 that Beyond Good & Evil is not really about combat. The rest of the game play is very enjoyable 
 (while not especially difficult) and puts your mind to work, rather than your trigger finger. One 
 of the best aspects of the combat system (and indeed the game play in general) is the use of the 
 games NPC allies. 'Buddies' are always there when you need them, but never get in the way when 
 you don't. In fact this game could show many FPS's a thing or two!
  
  Let me be clear, there are a LOT of cut scenes in this game. While really well put together and 
 adding greatly to the story, the fact remains that you spend a lot of time watching the game instead 
 of playing it. At times you really do feel a bit like you are mealy moving the main character from 
 one pre-recorded scene to the next. This is partly to do with the games minimalist interface (which 
 for the majority of the game is commendable and fun to use) . In my opinion a movie is not and never 
 will be a game, and cut scenes just don't make good game play. Granted its a personal prejudice, 
 but in this case I think it bares fruit. Unfortunately the shear amount of cut scenes does start 
 to feel like laziness on the part of the developers.
  
  But here's the catch, after all the things I have just mentioned, I STILL really like this game! 
 It says a lot when great character and world design can lift a game above its game play problems, 
 but in this case I think it's more than true. Beyond Good & Evil is fun, and in many ways that 
 is as much as you can ask for. Yes, it's not a classic. However, in a world of sequels and repetition 
 this game stands out as a real breath of fresh air. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 6.1
Date: Sep 2, 2004 6:13 am PT
Review:  I basically never buy adventure games but I thought i'd take a gamble on this since it was so cheap 
 and had some good reviews, I guess they proved wrong though.
  
  Well I'd now recommend you either rent or play the demo first because I didn't enjoy it that much. 
 Maybe it's just my twisted adult mind but I prefer a smattering of violence or adult themes in 
 my games for me to enjoy them somewhat. I constantly felt like I was playing a kids game with the 
 cutsie style characters like running around with a big fat pig for a companion. Add to that having 
 only 1 attack key and I just found myself growing bored rather quickly.
  
  I found it drab just running around with a camera taking photos of animals. I guess the way you 
 figured out the story by exposing the enemy like a journalist was unique, I just would have prefered 
 to get in there doom style with a machine gun and grenades.
  
  Gameplay was fairly simplistic, just 1 key to attack, plus the usual puzzles and jumping.
  
 
  Graphics were very good in some parts but other times they looked quite out of date.
  
  I really hated what little music there was, they had this weird mexican style with bongos going 
 that you had to listen to in the installation that just didn't seem to fit. Though the voice acting 
 was well done.
  
  I will give credit to the story and the way it unfolded, by I just literally had to force myself 
 to finish it. So there is no replay value for me.
  
  If you got kids maybe give it a go, otherwise leave it in the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 1, 2004 12:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is a fun, lighthearted action/adventure game with the emphasis on adventure (which is 
 a good thing) . The voice acting in many cases is hilarious (my son, a 4 year old, now walks around 
 the house saying "Not me, Flagnabit!!!") . The story is interesting and the characters interesting. 
 There are plenty of side-quests and minigames to make the linear nature of the story seem less 
 linear. You will find yourself not moving on with the storyline so that you can find that one last 
 animal for your collection or pearl for your necklace. The world is nice looking, but feels pretty 
 small after a while. I loved the way the populace changed attitude as the game wore on. The action 
 part of the game is the only part I would say was a bit weak, but since I'm not too big on action 
 anyway, it wasn't a major issue with me. And I also thought the innovative way they "confused" 
 you by flopping the controls at the end of the game was kool. It gave you the sensation of not 
 being completely in control of yourself, but almost. That was a neat idea. I will definitely get 
 the sequel to this game if it happens 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 26, 2004 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Beyond Good and Evil isnt just an RPG or just an adventure game. It combines a lot of different 
 gameplay elements, like stealth, fighting, puzzle solving, and hovercraft racing. All of them are 
 fairly simple and easy to pick up and play, thanks the games low difficulty level and on-screen 
 hints. They all work really well and make all of the games 15 hours fun. Yes, 15 hours is about 
 it. The short length for Beyond Good and Evil is the games only shortcoming. The game wraps up 
 its core story very well in that time, but introduces some stuff at the end that seems like sequel 
 bait and would have been better left out of the game. 
  
  This game is beautiful to look at almost everywhere at every time. The style and artwork in the 
 game is amazing. Everywhere you go, especially the outdoor areas, there is a ton of stuff happening 
 on screen. The world of Hillys seems like its alive and breathing. The game has the graphics and 
 animation quality and style of a Disney cartoon. Even mundane and ordinary NPCs and monsters seem 
 like a lot of attention was paid to them. Needless to say, anything that this game lacks in technical 
 specs it more than makes up for with inspiration and creativity.
  
  The game also has a lot of interesting characters with unique personalities. The dialog is great 
 and the voice-acting is top notch. The music has a lot of variety and is usually pretty upbeat. 
 The soundtrack adds a lot to the game and makes for an all-around great audio experience. 
  
  Throughout most of the game, you solve simple button-pushing and door-and-key puzzles while 
 occasionally fighting enemies. You also have little sidequests along the way that you can do for 
 money, like photographing rare animals, or collecting pearls, which also function as currency. 
 You can also participate in hovercraft races to earn some extra cash. Theres enough to do so that 
 you should never get bored. The puzzles in the game are slightly challenging, but you should rarely, 
 if ever, get stuck on them. However, there is one monumental gamestopping bug in version 1.01 of 
 this game that Ubisoft has yet to fix. Fighting is very simple. You tap the left mouse button to 
 perform your primary attack or hold down the mouse button to perform your power attack. Some enemies 
 require dodge and hit tactics, but there isnt much to battle tactics other than that.
  
  The premise of this game is that you are a freelance photojournalist who is exposing a government 
 conspiracy, so you infiltrate a lot of restricted areas. This leads to the games numerous stealth 
 sequences, which arent always welcome, but not as bad as they could have been. Stealth is also 
 pretty simple, and each room is designed so that you can get through it if you watch the guards 
 for one or two cycles. If you fail, you start at the beginning of the room, not at your last save 
 point, so the game rarely gets frustrating. Overall, Beyond Good and Evil is a pretty easy game.
 
  
  One thing that is great about this game is the way that the world of Hillys changes as you gradually 
 unravel the conspiracy. The games story is very interesting and unique. Its a shame that this 
 game didnt sell more, because it sets up a sequel at the end in a big way. But at least you can 
 get this game cheap now, and thats exactly what you should do. Beyond Good and Evil is a terrific 
 game and it was one of the best games to come out in 2003. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1alboogie
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2004 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Impressive, I was pleasantly surprised to find this is really a fun game to play. It's also a game 
 the whole family could play or watch you play without having to worry about sheilding little eyes 
 from unsuitable content. I was skeptical at first, so I played the demo and "lo and behold" a "diamond 
 in the rough", it was really cool. There's not too much fighting in it, but plenty of action. If 
 you into stealth this is a game you might want to check out.
  The graghics are great, the sound is good and it even has a good story line, which is pretty hard 
 to find.
  One last thing, for all you photograghers out there, the game would be good practice for getting 
 those "perfect shots". Enjoy, have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrumpyMcNasty
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2004 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Having read several reviews and picked up and put down this title on several occasions I didn't 
 expect much from Beyond Good and Evil and was pleasantly surprised from beginning to end. With 
 a storyline that keeps you gripped, characters that you will care about and enough variety to ensure 
 you don't get bored this turned out to be a little gem of a game. 
  
  I won't bore you with the details of the story, you can get that from anyone of a number of reviews. 
 Instead I'll focus on the presentation and gameplay.
  
  The graphics are pretty without being spectacular, the sound is patchy at times and the controls 
 can be sluggish, with camera angles that can get warped at very inoportune moments. This might 
 sound like a good mix for a bad game but none of these flaws are frequent or chronic enough to 
 impact on the overall joy that is the gameplay. 
  
  From hovercraft racing to matrix-style fighting, longe range sniping, driving, flying and even 
 a brand new air-paddle style game Beyond Good and Evil is about variety. Moving swiftly from segment 
 to segment, mission to puzzle to race, this game keeps you constantly amused by frequently changing 
 the angle from which it entertains. The level of difficulty is also at the same time high and low 
 enough that it will satisfy seasoned gamers while also not frustrating younger players. Add to 
 this a story that is the CG version of a good page-turner and you have an all-round experience 
 that is well worth the cover price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flishkin
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2004 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This is fun game which can be both rewarding and frustrating at the same time. The controls on 
 the PC version can be rather clunky at times, but the great graphics, sound and story makes up 
 for it in the long run. You are sucked into the game world with the first few seconds and generally 
 the game is well balanced between fighting, exploring and solving problems. The game world and 
 characters are odd (e. g. a pig as your partner) , but this does add an entirely different feel to 
 the game. Some of the levels (especially later on in the game) can be rather complicated to navigate 
 and I found myself referring to a walkthrough to get some of the sections complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irish27
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 21, 2004 9:26 am PT
Review:  I am one of a growing (slowly) group of people who have found this game and realize what a hidden 
 treasure it is. Unique gameplay, outstanding sound, top notch graphics, and get this, a story worth 
 paying attention to. Unlike so many games that hit the market these days, this one is finished 
 out of the box and has very polished gameplay. I typically do not enjoy multi-platform games due 
 to the save game feature. This is the exception, the save points are numerous, reducing frustration. 
 Also, on this point, when you die you start over with the health and objects you started the fight 
 with, and it's very quick getting you back into the action. My only issue with the game is length. 
 So many recent games have suffered from this (Max Payne 2, Call of Duty, Tron 2.0) that it makes 
 me think this is the new industry method to save money. If so, I don't get it. These companies 
 put so much money into their game engines and then use them for one short game. I would love to 
 see another game based on this or the Aquanox 2 game engines. Oh well, not my money to lose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xyre
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 17, 2004 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best games I have played to date. The story is in-depth, the graphics 
 are incredible, the gameplay is wonderful, everything fits together perfectly. Here's an in-depth 
 review.
  
  Gameplay: The game plays much like one you would find on a console, but Ubi manages to put it all 
 together perfectly, implementing an action button, use button, move buttons, etc., and it is just 
 as good as any 3rd person action game. Sometimes the camera can go a bit zonky, but its noting 
 to worry about, you can move the camera around (if you need to see around a corner for example) , 
 and during certain parts of the game, the camera will move to a fixed position, or follow you in 
 a certain pattern to give you an overview of the room. Every once in a while though, the camera 
 will get "fixed" becuase there isnt any room to move anywhere, and you have a limited view, but 
 again, this is very minor. Also the game is relatively short, but with the huge amount of story, 
 it makes up for this and more. The story is something you want to just go on after its finished. 
 You connect to the characters, you feel their stress or victory. And it just keeps getting deeper 
 and deeper until you reach the climax. Of course, there are also parts that are comical, frustrating, 
 sad, etc., its just a wonderful story.
  
  Graphics: Amazing, incredible, beautiful, fluid, awesome, need I say more. The textures are crisp, 
 the colors vivid, the atmosphere is perfect. They keep the game from become a gloomy good vs evil 
 games (because its beyond that, haha, get it, no) , instead you have a feeling of reality while 
 at the same time you know that you have a mission, if you know what i mean. There are also some 
 really nice looking special effects, such as motion bluring, or liquidy distortion, that just increases 
 the game's intensity.
  
  Sound: Again, the sound is awesome. THe sound effects match perfectly with the enviroments, plus 
 using EAX technology to give even more of a boost to the sound. The music in the game is almost 
 out of a movie, matching perfectly with the current atmosphere (slow ambient music for caves, upbeat 
 music for races and such) , and just sounds great (I wish Ubi would release a soundtrack for this) .
 
  
  Value: $20? This game is worth well more then $20, I would happily put down $50 for it, even though 
 it is short. 
  
  Final words? Buy this! You surely have $20, and trust me, this is one of them best investments 
 you can possibly make (when it comes to pc games that is) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabbuki
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2004 1:41 am PT
Review:  This game is simply superb. It is a great action-adventure game that is fun for any type of gamer. 
 
  
  The gameplay is great! There are decent puzzles to be solved, the fighting system is oddly addictive, 
 and the allied characters you take on your journey complement your adventures instead of getting 
 in the way. Ally management is very simple and you can exchange powerups between your party through 
 a simple options menu. 
  Character movement is also streamlined. Although there is no manual jumping capability, Jade jumps 
 automatically when required to do so. This actually helps gameplay making puzzles a little simpler 
 to do. Also, many puzzles require the creative use of your party members to get them done. Did 
 I mention the fighting system? It's really addictive to fight in slow-motion sometimes.
  
  Hovercraft levels are really enjoyable. The controls for the hovercraft are very easy to understand 
 and eventually your hovercraft can be upgraded to be an unstoppable force. There are also hovercraft 
 races that take your mind off of the storyline. Hovercraft levels are also very, very detailed. 
 They are usually outside levels with bright colors and civilian craft cruising about... The world 
 is remarkably detailed.
  
  The photography portion of the game complements the game. You would think taking pictures of the 
 numerous animals around the world would be a burden, but it is actually a very exciting thing to 
 do. Every level brings with it new creatures and new opportunities to earn cash for taking pictures. 
 After a while, you'll be hunting for new animals and going nuts over finding a new creature. It 
 is very fun.
  
  The graphics are stunning; it's what won me over into buying this game. Each character is so detailed 
 to the finest pimple or shade on their skin. Their clothing is made up of hi-resolution textures 
 and I have never seen skin texturing and shading so detailed in any game before this. The water 
 effects are magnificent with reflections to boot. 
  Facial animations are excellent in this game. I almost thought they stole Half Life 2's facial 
 animation technology! However, the only thing I can complain about is that the lip synch could 
 be a little better... 
  Plus, cutscenes (I think they are in-game cutscenes, though I'm not sure) are very detailed and 
 are very, very crisp. The graphics in these cutscens are hi-resolution and look stunning at high 
 graphics resolutions. Each character also has very many polygons. Not a single odd line is easily 
 seen on any character model.
  
  The sound is great! The voice acting is top notch. Every character has some funny remarks to say, 
 and they never get repetitive. The voices match each character perfectly. Creatures also make interesting 
 noises that are believable (A sponge-like creature is of course going to make squishy noises!) . 
 Pey'j has the funniest stuff to say. His persona is wild and he has tons of one-liners to crack. 
 The voice acting and script never gets old.
  
  The value is OK. I don't know about the replay value, but I sure know this game was worth the price 
 I payed. Priced $40 at release, this game is worth it. The production values are just too high 
 to not be worth it. 
  
  Overall, I love this game. It is rich in story and is great for an avid adventurer. Ubisoft really 
 did something right when releasing BG&E. I sincerely hope there is a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wakin
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 6, 2003 7:01 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft released 3 great tittles for this coming Yuletide season - Prince of Persia Sands of Time, 
 Beyond Good & Evil and XIII. Gamespot seems to favour POP giving it a 9.0 while only a 6.4 for 
 XIII. Personally I have the oportunity to try all 3 games and given a choice I would rank BG&E 
 before POP. The storyline behind BG&E is intrigueing as it involves a conspiracy by the government 
 while POP is typical of a hero trying to set things right. BG&E keeps me to my chair as I tried 
 to complete the game to know what's the plot. XIII like BG&E is also about a conspiracy assasination 
 plot of the President. However, the ending is a big letdown "To be continued" as there are 10 more 
 volumes of the comic yet to be included in the game. Graphically, BG&E is eye candy especially 
 when you turn on the progressive scanning feature. I was playing the PS2 version on a Samsung LCD 
 TV and genetically PS2 games don't look great on LCD monitors. When I turn on the progressive scan 
 feature within the game, the graphics become more detailed and sharper and indeed it's very beautiful. 
 Though I must say XIII celshaded technology is the most unique among the 3 games. POP would score 
 somewhere in between the 2 extremes. I didn't pay too much attention to the audio but at certain 
 cutscenes the background music is pretty nice and pleasant. POP of course features arabic music 
 while I don't have an impression of XIII yet. As for gameplay, BG&E is what Tomb Raider AOD should 
 have been. It features on puzzle and problem solving rather than action genre killing monsters 
 (like Devil May Cry) . THe puzzles are pretty interesting and it's not really repetive. I must say 
 it's on par with POP as POP also has some pretty interesting puzzles. The combat in POP is much 
 simpler and more stylish than that in BG&E. XIII is a FPS so it's a totally different genre altogether. 
 In conclusion my tilt is towards BG&E. It's a pretty and interesting game but I have yet to find 
 out whether it's suppose to be a short game. I am still stuck in the Slaughterhouse stage. For 
 all of you who are hestitant about getting this game, my suggestion is try the demo and see if 
 you like it. For one, it's a great game to me - just my two cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuiGonJ
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 23, 2003 10:21 am PT
Review:  The game has a strong story, and makes good use of the minigames and the vehicles as seen in the 
 demo, which is the real opening to the game. The demo is right here on Gamespot, and I highly recommend 
 trying it. You'll be hooked just like I was.
  
  The characters are well written, the story interesting, and the voice actors top notch. One other 
 thing I should rave about is the soundtrack, which reminds me of Hans Zimmer's Rain Man soundtrack. 
 I really would like to own that just for regular listening. Not too sure about the Frenchman dance/rap 
 track they make you listen to during a rather long loading process (the only negative so far) , 
 but it's place in the story is pretty cool.
  
  
  
  The only advice I would really offer is to make sure you explore as much as you like, and take 
 your time. I hear the game is only 10-12 hours long, but that would make it longer than JK2 or 
 MP2, which cost MSRP $50 instead of $40. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
