-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Big Biz Tycoon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/bigbiztycoon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 12, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 5.1, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 5.3, 86 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Value
Developer: Animedia
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     May 29, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
In trying to walk the line between being a virtual-life game and a business management game, Big 
 Biz Tycoon limits itself to mediocrity. 

 Activision Value's Big Biz Tycoon is a management strategy game that, like several similar games, 
 lets you build and run your own company. But unlike most other games in the management strategy 
 genre, Big Biz Tycoon incorporates elements from virtual-life games like The Sims. While these 
 elements add some variety to the standard business, the game as a whole is only a mediocre alternative 
 to other management strategy or virtual-life games. And Big Biz Tycoon doesn't look or sound terrific, 
 either -- its 2D graphics are colorful and functional, but its forgettable music and sparse sound 
 effects don't add much to the game.           This game lets you run your own company -- and decorate 
 the office.    

 The game comes with a handful of different scenarios, most of which contain a prebuilt office environment 
 and a set goal, whether it's to earn a certain amount of money in a given time limit, raise the 
 company's stock price, or pay back a large bank loan. You can also create your own scenarios and 
 set your starting money and goals.   

  The general goal of the game is to make money either through developing, producing, and distributing 
 products or by investing in the stock market. You can hire employees, assign them to different 
 projects and departments, determine the number and type of products to produce, and set the sale 
 price. You're also in charge of advertising, salaries and bonuses, employee productivity and happiness, 
 and decorating your office. These last two categories are where the game's virtual-life elements 
 come into play.   

  Like EA's immensely popular virtual-life game The Sims, Big Biz Tycoon lets you buy a wide variety 
 of furniture and decorations to create different kinds of environments. The available items are 
 for the most part office-oriented, although you'll find a selection of beds and stereo equipment 
 along with the expected office items like desks, chairs, shelves, computers, chairs, printers, 
 and tables. The quality of the items you choose will have an effect on your employees' happiness 
 and on your ability to hire new employees or woo them away from competitors.   

  Each employee has a unique set of attributes that affect his or her ability to perform different 
 tasks. Employees with a low intelligence rating, for instance, won't be much help in developing 
 a type of product that requires lots of intelligence. Projects have minimum requirements that correspond 
 to employee attributes, so if you want to develop a specific product, you'll have to assemble a 
 team that meets the requirements. While there doesn't seem to be any limit to the number of employees 
 you can assign to a project, each employee increases the project's cost, and they can't perform 
 other tasks while working on the project.   

  Through the course of the game, employees can improve their attributes by completing different 
 tasks, and you can also improve their attributes by giving them gifts, such as DVD players, encyclopedias, 
 ergonomic keyboards, and mouthwash. In order to improve the physical health of your employees, 
 you'll have to take them out to dinner, buy them vitamin C, or give them a membership to a gym. 
   

  Part of what makes Big Biz Tycoon unusual is the fact that it has been roughly translated from 
 the original Korean version, which is known as Venture Tycoon. Some of the translations provide 
 unintended entertainment -- it's hard not to smile after reading a sentence like, "One day the chief's 
 condition of his health was got worse, so that he got not to be able to do work any more." Other 
 strange elements of the game are annoying, though, such as repeatedly being required to perform 
 a physical activity like golf or gymnastics before hiring an employee or starting a new project. 
           Part of the fun is just reading the scenario descriptions.    

 The tutorial that comes with the game does very little to explain how to play, although most of 
 the necessary information can be found in the somewhat unwieldy 215MB digital manual. The underlying 
 business management game is fairly deep, and it lets you do things like move your office to different 
 locations, take over other companies, and make your company go public. Unfortunately, a lot of 
 the game is hidden behind the virtual-life elements, while other parts of the game seem to have 
 little actual use. For instance, the administration department doesn't seem to do anything more 
 than give monthly reports on rent and salary costs, and there seems to be no use for having an 
 employee in the distribution department unless you plan to sell the rights to one of your products 
 to an outside distributor. Company reputation is based in part on your advertising, but both factors 
 seem to have little effect on your sales. It's also unclear why you cannot manufacture more of 
 a successful product that has already sold out, rather than having to develop an entirely new product 
 to sell.   

  In trying to walk the line between being a virtual-life game and a business management game, Big 
 Biz Tycoon limits itself to mediocrity. The underlying strategy game has the potential to be an 
 enjoyable alternative to the other management games on the market, but as it stands, it's hard 
 to recommend to fans of the genre. The game's virtual-life element can also be fun for a while, 
 but it doesn't offer the variety in decorative items, characters, and social interactions that 
 makes The Sims so entertaining. Big Biz Tycoon's attempt to combine two very popular game types 
 may be admirable, but the end result is less than successful.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jacquie668
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 2, 2004 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Big Biz Tycoon was a disappointment for me. I remember hearing about it before Activision released 
 it under its value series. I actually thought it might have something good to offer, but no it 
 doesnt. Hey at least it was cheap!
  
  The game came in a small box with a slip of paper, folded, that had no real information on it aside 
 from installation instructions. There was no manual, nothing, but you get what you pay for. There 
 was an in game tutorial, but I dont remember that actually helping. Instead I ended up clicking 
 on all the cryptic buttons to try and make some sense of them.
  
  There is a little value to the gameplay. You do have to equip your office for your employees like 
 you would do in the Sims, which is okay. But in the end your office chums will complain non-stop 
 about everything so it really doesnt matter. Youll eventually just ignore them because you cant 
 make them happy. Then you have to try and make a profit developing some product, investing in the 
 stock market, or etc. This can be fun, if you take the time to learn how to play the game. You 
 also have to hire employees and micromanage them. You can assign them to different projects or 
 tasks and try to get your company into a good profit margin.
  
  The graphics are nothing spectacular, but are a bit cute; in fact they look very similar to Theme 
 Hospitals graphics. The sound is pretty rough. Big Biz includes a variety of horrible midi styled 
 music, which you can turn off. 
  
  The translation from Korean to English is humorous. I didnt find this element frustrating, but 
 some people may. Some of the scenario descriptions are funny. Again you get what you pay for.
 
  
  In the end this game isnt worth much, which is why it is so cheap! There is a little gameplay, 
 but it wasnt enough to make me happy. I dont recommend this game, but it only costs around $6.00hell 
 you could probably find it for less than that if you really wanted to. I know I gave my copy away 
 for free so, there ya go.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
