-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Big Oil: Build an Oil Empire
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/bigoilbuildanoilempire/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The game offers a decent variety of playable scenarios and challenges.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Poorly designed interface makes management a major hassle.
 the game is full of annoying bugs and glitches.
 you can only choose between the shallow, simplistic gameplay of easy mode and the tedious, frustrating micromanagement of advanced mode.
 ugly graphics and almost nonexistent sound.
 bare-bones multiplayer features make connecting to a game more trouble than it's worth.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  7, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3
Critic Score: 3.2, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 4.8, 87 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tri Synergy
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jul 31, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Big Oil is poorly designed all around, with frustrating bugs, a practically unworkable interface, 
 and tiresome gameplay. 

  Crude oil is some nasty stuff even in virtual form, as evidenced by the ugly mess that is Big Oil: 
 Build an Oil Empire, the latest economic strategy game from Tri Synergy. You might hope that a 
 game that puts you in the role of an oil baron would attempt to capture the excitement of striking 
 oil and making it big or negotiating high-stakes business contracts for mind-boggling sums of money 
 around the world. Instead, Big Oil lends the sensation of trying to coax a sluggish tanker with 
 an inebriated captain at the helm through an endless gauntlet of piercing icebergs. This game is 
 slow, ugly, and poorly designed, and it isn't entertaining in the least.  

          After playing this game, you might think it was programmed by Jed Clampett...     

 
  Big Oil lets you build an oil empire by drilling for oil, shipping it to refineries around the 
 world, and eventually processing it into products that you can sell to the public. You can choose 
 from more than 15 scenarios based on historical events such as the World Wars or the Great Depression. 
 Some of the scenarios are somewhat interesting, and they each have unique conditions for success. 
 However, they all play about the same, which is to say, they all play poorly. You can also choose 
 a freeplay campaign, where you start from scratch and build oil wells and refineries; research 
 new technology to improve transportation and create new products; and develop cities to provide 
 you with workers.  

  There are two difficulty modes to choose from: easy and advanced. If you choose easy mode, you'll 
 have an annoying helper who pops up every few moments to tell you what's going on and offer to 
 help you with tasks such as chartering ships to transport oil or purchasing drilling rights from 
 cities around the world. This assistant can be helpful because it lets you avoid the headache of 
 slogging through the poorly designed interface to manage your assets manually. However, the assistant 
 is also annoying because when it pops up on the screen, the game stops, and the only answers you 
 can give to its queries are "yes," "no," and "don't remind me again."  

  If you answer "yes," you'll be taken to the area in question, which is frustrating when you're 
 in the middle of a task in a city on the other side of the world. If you answer "no," you'll have 
 just a moment to finish what you're doing before being asked about some completely unrelated item 
 of business. It doesn't help that the game comes riddled with glitches, which will cause your assistant 
 to, for example, repeatedly ask if you want to build a kindergarten in Algiers, even if that city 
 already has 10 kindergartens to every block. The worst thing you can do is respond to one of the 
 assistant's requests with "don't remind me again." If you do this, you'll never get  any  such 
 notices again, which means that you'll be uninformed about what's going on, and if you do want 
 to do anything, you'll have to figure it out manually. This can be next to impossible given the 
 game's lack of a tutorial and a severely lacking manual. Even if you look past the apparent design 
 flaws with the forced automation method, playing Big Oil on easy comes down to clicking "yes" over 
 and over to the pop-ups from your assistant and occasionally throwing down a new building or stretch 
 of pipeline.  

  If you choose to play in advanced mode, you don't have an assistant at all. Instead, you're left 
 to manually manage everything. Also, in advance mode, everything is far more complicated. For instance, 
 constructing an oil well on easy mode is as simple as purchasing and placing a single building 
 on an open oil field. In advanced mode, you have to purchase the oil well, staff it with workers, 
 hire a specialist to manage the workers, maintain the various physical components of the well itself, 
 and so on.  

  This is needlessly complicated by the game's interface, which seems to be intended to challenge 
 you every step of the way. You're given a few buttons to choose from, which mostly bring up graphs 
 and charts that show you how your company is doing. For the most part, these are all useless and 
 in no way required to play the game. If you want to build a structure, you have to click on a vacant 
 patch of land near the town you want to build in, click a button to bring up the building menu, 
 click on the building you want to construct, drag the building around until you find a suitable 
 spot to place it, and then wait as it gets built. That's way too many clicks to do something as 
 simple as build an oil-storage structure. It doesn't help that there are no keyboard shortcuts 
 or hotkeys, and there's no way to select anything more than a single unit at a time, be it something 
 as large as a refinery or as small as a length of pipeline.  

  There's also the matter of moving around the map. Since you'll often be managing oil fields and 
 cities around the world, you'll need to move from one area to the next almost constantly. In easy 
 mode, the game will automatically transport you from one city to the next as long as your assistant 
 thinks that's where you need to go. However, if you ever want to explore the map of your own free 
 will, you have to use the mouse wheel to scroll all the way out of the map until you get a view 
 of the entire world, with icons representing each city, ship, refinery, and oil field on the map. 
 You can then click on the city you want to go to, and you'll be instantly zoomed into that city... most 
 of the time, at least. Many times, you can click until your blue in the face and you'll get no 
 response. In that case, you have to zoom in and search for your properties by scrolling around 
 the map. Since you can't see any structures until you're almost completely zoomed in, you'll spend 
 a lot of time scrolling across massive, empty areas searching for your tiny oil well among some 
 trees hundreds of miles outside of the nearest town.  

  The single-player experience is tedious and frustrating enough, but the multiplayer compounds the 
 bad experience. You can play online or via a local network with up to six players as you go head-to-head 
 to try to become the richest and most powerful oil company in the world. But that's not so easy 
 because to play online, you have to know the IP address of the server you want to play on. As you 
 can expect, the fan community isn't exactly lively for a game like Big Oil, so connecting with 
 other players outside of the game just to get a match together is an exercise in futility. In fact, 
 we never found anyone online to set up a game, or even any inkling that anyone in the world is 
 interested in playing this game. Of course, that isn't much of a surprise.  

          ... or maybe even Jethro.     

  Big Oil looks ugly and moves like a slug. The units 
 and buildings in the game all look blocky and undefined, and each and every city looks almost identical. 
 The scenery isn't any better, with huge stretches of brown and green smears to represent various 
 terrains and the occasional smattering of unnatural-looking foliage that does nothing to liven 
 up the view. The draw distance is also way too short, and you can't see any structures until you 
 zoom right in on them. The game moves slowly, too. When you mouse over a menu item, you have to 
 wait several seconds for the text to appear explaining what that item is, and many times when you 
 click on a patch of land to bring up a menu, it takes forever for the menu to appear onscreen. 
 The game's presentation also suffers from a dearth of sound. When you click on a research facility 
 you might hear the distorted gurgle of bubbling chemicals, and when you click on a government building 
 you might hear some dull crowd noise, but more often than not, you won't hear anything.  

  Big Oil is a failure in almost every regard. Sure, it's a budget title, but that doesn't excuse 
 the tedious gameplay, frustrating bugs, and shoddy presentation. There are dozens of better economic 
 strategy games available for the PC, most of which will probably end up costing you less than Big 
 Oil. No matter how much you thirst for a taste of the Texas tea, you'll want to avoid this game. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 1.6
Date: Sep 7, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Big Oil the game, much like the industry in real life doesn't inspire much in the way of "fun" 
 or "glamour". You might expect that a simulation/strategy game about a niche industry like oil 
 would be dry to the average joe, but ironically, it's really lousy as a sim, while retaining the 
 painfully boring premise. All of this leaves you truly baffled. I thought hunting deer as a bargain 
 game was odd, but "Big Oil" brings "niche bargain c**p" to new lows.
  
  First, this game is badly made. The graphics are VERY spare, and simple, and occasionally broken. 
 The sound is uninspiring to the point of being a hinderance, and even though the gameplay is not 
 deep or interesting, it's cryptic enough to make it less accessible than it should have been. The 
 economics... stink. The sim elements all stink actually. This game might just be called "Sim Dousing 
 Meets Baseball Statistics Hell". None of the "it's a poorly made game" info should surprise anyone, 
 because this game is the PINNACLE of "Why was this made, and who was it made for?!". I may not 
 like trains, but I get that some people love sims about trains. I Would never want to slog through 
 a season of baseball as the manager, but I know people who get hot over the idea. I don't, on the 
 other hand, know ANYONE who wants anything to do with "Big Oil" unless it's a guilty line in their 
 portfolio that's making them cash. Who sits arounds wondering what "sim crude" would be like. There 
 is a REASON for this. It's not as though so many gaming ideas have been fully plumbed that we are 
 at the point of needing to explore the realm of Big Oil. Even if this game were not a complete 
 technical failure, it would still be awful. What next "Big Agrobusiness: Build An Multinational 
 Agrocultural/Pharmaco Empire" ?! Thbbbppptt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnarchyRising
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 12, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  The idea behind the game had potential, for builders and economy buffs especially, but it falls 
 short on a lot of fronts.
  
  The user interface is clunky at best and is missing a lot of important things builders would have 
 liked to see such as quicker ways to find your own buildings and oil supply lines.
  
  The frame rate is BAD even on bleeding edge systems even though the graphics are not even that 
 great.
  
  The game was fun for the first few hours for me, but quickly became repetitive and annoying with 
 existing bugs such as gas stations, home oil depots, etc. not updating how much refined oil they 
 have stored.
  
  The sound system is practically non-existent. You get some sounds when you click on buildings, 
 which quickly become annoying especially on pipelines. Other than that, the sound is null and void.
 
  
  Last but not least, the game engine seems to have some major bottlenecks that keeps it from updating 
 vital game information fast enough to keep pace while you are building and scouting for oil.
  
  Summed up; If another shot was taken at this game style, it would be great. But this particular 
 title, don't waste your cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korales
Rating: 3.6
Date: Aug 11, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  First of all excuse my poor english, ain't my native language.
  
  This game is really annoying to play in the "Normal" mode and impossible in "Advanced". 
  Everytime 
 the tip-character appears the game stops and most of the times you have 2 options, either to click 
 OK and take you to the city that there is a problem or press "Do not show me any messages like 
 this" button and never again be informed.
  The piping system sucks, i at least expected that you could delete the whole pipe with a click 
 and not deleting it part by part which could take for ages.
  There are no keyboard shortcuts, the economy is simple simple simple and the buildings tha t you 
 can use aren't more than 15-20.
  
  Also a lot of bugs appeared, in fact today something weird happened while i was trading Oil through 
 train and i ended up with 172 Billion $. omg!!!
  
  IMO this game sucks completely and it's nothing like you imagine, don't spend a single dime on 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_razorback
Rating: 2.4
Date: Aug 8, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, this game is possibly the WORST I've EVER played in my 25 year career as a gamer and 
 game tester. It's clunky, poorly designed and a pain to play. The interface is of incredibly poor 
 design, tool tips show up ages after mouse-overs. What should be a simple concept: find oil, extract, 
 store and sell.. turns into a nightmare of woven and tangles distribution pipes!
  
  I'm still looking for a good oil tycoon simulation, would someone PLEASE get it right!?
  
  
 In this release you are just lost and it seems like right when you are ahead the computer messes 
 things up by planting their pipes right smack in the way of your neatly designated areas. I just 
 simply hate this game. Period.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
