-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/bigrigsotrr/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 14, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 1
Critic Score: 0.4, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 3.3, 5,542 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GameMill Publishing
Developer: Stellar Stone
Genre: Truck Racing
Date:     Nov 20, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Just how bad is Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing? It's as bad as your mind will allow you to comprehend. 
 

  Bad games are released all the time, and some are worse than others. This is nothing new. However, 
 it really takes a special kind of awful to be considered one of the worst games ever made. So when 
 this special kind of awful makes an appearance, it's truly something to behold. Big Rigs: Over 
 the Road Racing is one of those rare pieces of work. Not only is it almost completely broken and 
 blatantly unfinished in nearly every way, but even if it weren't, there's so little of an actual 
 game to be found here that it would still be terrible. Big Rigs is a game so astoundingly bad that 
 it manages to transcend nearly every boundary put forth by some of gaming's absolute worst of the 
 worst and easily makes it into that dubiously extraordinary category of being one of the most atrocious 
 games ever published.  

          If the goal was to create the world's most broken trucking game, then Big Rigs is a resounding 
 success.     

  Big Rigs' first and most grievous issue lies in its gameplay. Specifically, there isn't any.  

 
  In theory, Big Rigs is  supposed  to be a racing game based on big trucks that speed through various 
 US trucking routes in some kind of effort to deliver cargo before the competition gets there first -- or 
 else the truck gets busted by the law. At least, this is what the back of the game's box would 
 have you believe. Let us make it very clear that these statements are all horrible, horrible lies. 
 There is no coherent goal in Big Rigs. There is no cargo to be delivered. There are no police chases. 
 In fact, there really isn't anything much in the game.  

  The basic idea in the actual game is that you pick one from four vaguely different trucks and then 
 one from five vaguely different levels. You then compete against another truck in a simple checkpoint 
 race. That's it. However, Big Rigs can't even get this basic concept right. The supposedly computer-controlled 
 truck you're supposed to be racing against in the game  never actually moves . It's right there 
 next to you at the beginning of a race, but it has no purpose in the game. This is to say, actually, 
 that none of the game's races have a purpose because there's no competition and no time limit. 
 You win  every single time . So unless you especially like seeing a winning-screen over and over 
 again that reads "You're Winner!", there is absolutely no point in playing Big Rigs.  

  But let's assume for a moment that the AI trucks actually worked, and you could get a race going. 
 Even if this were the case, the game still wouldn't be worth playing in the slightest. Big Rigs' 
 controls essentially involve hitting the arrow keys of the keyboard in the desired direction and 
 nothing more. The game provides no support for peripheral controllers of any kind, and there isn't 
 even an option to edit the default keyboard controls in any manner. Your truck also handles pretty 
 horribly. There are no physics here. You accelerate much too quickly to even be minutely realistic 
 (especially when going in reverse, which lets you go from around 0 to 60mph in about five seconds, 
 continue accelerating infinitely faster, and stop on a dime the second you let up on the keyboard) , 
 you can travel over the most rugged of terrain without any problems (including nearly vertical 
 mountains) , and you can turn in ways that cause you to jerk around in some pretty ridiculous manners. 

  Of course, the controls would only matter if you actually had to worry about running into things 
 or crashing your truck, which, actually, is a nonissue. You see, you can clip your truck right 
 through  every  object on a race course in Big Rigs, from the biggest of houses and walls, right 
 down to the smallest of lampposts. Furthermore, bridges evidently don't actually exist, despite 
 the fact that you can see them -- driving over any of them results in you sinking right through them. 
 It is also quite possible to simply drive right off of the literal end of a level when playing. 
 Considering the fact that you can drive over these tall, seemingly insurmountable mountains (at 
 least, insurmountable for an actual diesel-powered truck) , and there are no level boundaries, eventually 
 you can just drive off into literal nothingness and can hang out there as long as you please.  
 

          Please do not play this game. We cannot stress this enough.     

  The graphical problems don't stop there, either. Big Rigs is easily one of the worst-looking PC 
 games released in years. The truck models are amazingly terrible, with incredibly archaic-looking 
 designs and brake lights that actually float off of the truck models. The four different environments 
 all look bad, too, what with their incredibly nasty-looking textures, their ugly and meaningless 
 set pieces, and their aforementioned clipping problems. Also, the reason we state that there are 
 only four environments in the game, instead of the five we previously cited, is because we could 
 only get four of them to actually work. When trying to load the fifth environment, the game simply 
 quit and returned us to the desktop on all of the computers that we tried. As for the game's sound 
 design, there isn't any. There are literally no sound effects in Big Rigs. The only sounds that 
 present themselves at all are a few unpleasant, looping techno tracks, and on a midrange PC, we 
 couldn't even get them to play.  

  Just how bad is Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing? It's as bad as your mind will allow you to comprehend. 
 It is so disturbingly bad that even its budget price tag seems like a slap in the face. It really 
 makes you wonder if the company that put out this dreck even took so much as a half minute to glance 
 at the game that it was releasing. The game's readme file  does  assert that the game was thoroughly 
 tested on various PCs, but the end result seems to suggest otherwise. The fact is, even if you 
 tried, you couldn't play Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing the way it was seemingly intended to be 
 played, and even if you could, you wouldn't want to.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (437 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: foomf11
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 16, 2009 5:30 pm PT
Review:   
 i really have to explain? OK this is what the game is like 
  asodaofjoif pfkspfkpo kpfsfp kfp k kpsk p kfpsfkp k kpfskf kkk k k fk kk sfk k p skpfk pkpspfk 
 pok k opskf kfspkfk89er s, koaskfpsfo, po k pkp kk k pfopskf k k pfkspkf p k sfl [s lsfp [lf [lf lfsllf [f 
 f [slf [f l l l l l l l ; p ; ooo o o o o o o o o ooo o exactly. this game sucks. this game sucks. 
 this game suckssssssss. this game sucks this game sucks this game sucks why buy it why buy it why 
 buy it why buy -----it makes me lose my mind. DONT BUY  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conkerrulez2334
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 15, 2009 6:10 pm PT
Review:  UGH!!!! THIS GAME IS HORRIBLE!!!!!!! when i played this game, i got very mad at how frustratingly 
 hard it is to play this game. the controls are simple, though. you just move the trucks in the 
 direction you want to go by using the arrow keys on your keyboard. there isn't a button to move 
 forward, only because the trucks move by themselves. see? isn't that simple? well, it's simple 
 enough for a 4 year old to play. however, there is one teeny tiny problem with the controls: IT 
 HAS THE MOST BROKEN CONTROLS EVER!!!!!!!!! imagine controls three times as broken and unresponsive 
 than in superman 64 and ninjabread man COMBINED. that's what the controls are like in this game. 
 but, the broken controls are only the beginning of the problems with this game.
  
  here's some more problems. well, this game completely defies the law of something that's in this 
 world all around us every second of our lives. it's on every planet and will be on every planet 
 until the planet gets sucked into a black hole in space. it's called gravity. i'll explain. in 
 this game, you can ride up everything and anything. even mountains that are completely vertical 
 can be scaled in seconds when you control these trucks. and since this game has almost absolutely 
 no collision detection at all, you can even ride your truck THROUGH the mountains instead of riding 
 them up the mountains! how convenient is that?! IT'S NOT HELPFUL IN ANY WAY!!!!!!!! and if you 
 do decide to ride through a mountain that can be driven through, your truck gets suspended in thin 
 air. with that, you can keep on riding through the sky like a little bird until you reach absolute 
 nothingness. like, the screen can be completely black (or white) and you can still be riding through 
 the blank screen. and even when you ride through the blank screen, you will still be in first place 
 and win that race, only because no matter what, you come up in first place, even when you're behind 
 every other truck (if there are other trucks) . and you win every race no matter what. in every 
 single race, no matter how many trucks are in front of you or behind you, when the race is over, 
 a screen will come up that says "you win!". and that doesn't make much sense, does it? another 
 problem in this game is that if you try to drive on a bridge, you will automatically drop through 
 the bridge and onto the ground, or water, or whatever is under the bridge. but, you might fall 
 through what's under the bridge as well.
  
  ok. movin' on now. the graphics are just unbelievably terrible. the graphics were not good for 
 it's time, and are nowhere near even the slightest bit of good in today's standards. the graphics 
 will never be good. even if everything about this game was exactly the same, but released in 1,000,000 
 b. c., the graphics still wouldn't be good. there are many horrendous graphical problems. besides 
 the horrible collision detection, the gravity-defying dives up vertical objects and riding in the 
 air until the screen goes completely blank, the truck models are just plain bad. one problem with 
 the truck models is that it is extremely noticeable that the head lights and tail lights sick off 
 the truck and just float there, which is extremely distracting when you try to race. the tracks 
 in this game are so horribly designed. the things have the ugliest, most unrealistic textures you 
 can ever imagine. 
  
  moving along, you will notice that there is a enormous variety of trucks to use any loads of different 
 tracks to race on... NOT!!! there's only, like, 3 trucks to use and only 5 tracks. the trucks and 
 tracks are badly designed, as i mentioned before. oh, wait! i said there are 5 tracks to race on! 
 oh, what a silly mistake i made! i meant to say there are FOUR tracks to race on! there is a fifth 
 one, but it doesn't work! and if you try to load it, the game will stop automatically! the so called 
 fifth track was like it was there to fill up space! or maybe, it was meant to be a magic "stop 
 the game" button! 
  
  and that's not the end of the problems! there's another thing the lazy programmers didn't put in! 
 it's called music! even E. T. on the atari 2600 had music. they also forgot to include sound effects; 
 another thing that was included in E. T.!!!!!! one more problem with the game is unbearably long 
 loading times. even spyro: enter the dragonfly has shorter loading times!!!!!!! i'm telling you, 
 this game is unbelievably terrible! and because of the long loading times, and i have waited through 
 many loading times just to review this game, i have become an impatient person because i would 
 just get totally frustrated at the long loading times that now, i can't wait for anything for more 
 that 10 seconds. that's how impatient i've become. well, i'm patient for some things, but long 
 loading times is not one of them anymore.
  
  and have you ever realized that i never talked about the plot? i didn't talk about it for 1 reason: 
 THERE IS NO PLOT!!!!! yes, this game is unfinished. it could have been better if the programmers 
 took their time to fix the problems.
  
  and now, to wrap this review up, here are some scores i would like to give to the game, but gamespot's 
 rating system won't let me put. here are the scores: 
  0.00263906303431923 out of 13
  negative 10 out of positive 10
  negative 1,000,000 out of positive 10
  and last, but most bestest 
 score to give this game: negative nine quadrillion out of positive infinity to the power of infinity. 
 
  but, on a scale from 1 to 10, with 1 being the worst and 10 being the best, this game will get 
 a zero out of 10.
  so, THIS GAME SUCKS!!!!!!! would i recommend it to anyone? HELL NO!!!!!!!!!!!
  so please, never 
 buy this game. don't ever play it in your entire life or else you'll become an impatient person 
 like i did!!! PLEASE RATE!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariadarabi
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2009 3:56 pm PT
Review:  You should literally buy this game. You can fly WITH YOUR TRUCK! Now tell me, what other game can 
 you do that? None! I have NOT seen another game that lets you do that. Another great thing about 
 this game is that it lets you drive faster than the speed of light. At -350 000 km/s you can't 
 hate this game. The online play is amazing. There are approximately 5000 people who play online 
 per day. If you want to buy your baby brother, or nephew or anyone a nice driving game where you 
 KNOW there won't be violence, buy this game for them! At the end of the day, your child will be 
 happy, you will be happy, and the developers of the game will be happy. It's great and worth a 
 try! Try it now!
  
  One more thing, if you really don't trust me, fine, a human must go with their instincts. But in 
 my opinion, I really enjoyed this game and had great memories with it. It uses Next-gen technology 
 to provide a pleasant gaming experience. It has beautiful scenery and great gameplay. I said it 
 before and I'll say it again... it's worth a try! TRY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geoff-uk123
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 10, 2009 6:11 am PT
Review:  Okay I've never played this game, but I don't need to play it to know its possibly the worst game 
 ever made. Everything about this game is pathetic. Bad graphics, Broken A. I and horrible physics. 
 Its pretty clear that Stellar Stone, the makers of this horror, don't have a lot of experience 
 at making a decent game.
  
  I mean just watch the video review. You can drive through anything, you can go out of the world, 
 you can reverse faster than you accelerate, and your opponent seems to be dead. Not to mention 
 the bad english winning screen. (YOU'RE WINNER!)
  
  This game is so bad that you can download it for free. I wouldn't bother though, because when I 
 try to open it, I just get an error report.
  
  Big Rigs: Over The Road Racing is without a doubt, the worst game ever. Its broken, it looks awful 
 and the only good reason to play this is if you want a laugh from a bad game.
  
  EDIT: Anybody who gives this game a 10 has no life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pataponplayer
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Very few users that have reviewed this game have actually played it. Well, I have, and I am very 
 embarassed to say it. After all of this popularity of this game because of it's suckish EVERYTHING, 
 I decided to give it a try.
  
  Yes. This game is as bad as they describe it. I am very dissapointed to see that people on eBay 
 are actually selling it for more than $10. Amazon doesn't even carry this game anymore, and you 
 will have an impossible time finding this game at a game store in your country.
  
  Pretty much the only thing good you can get out of this game is to play it with your friends around, 
 to tell them that it is history in the making, because it is. It is so horrible, that I do reccomend 
 uninstalling the game after you have finished it. 
  
  Everybody else has covered the issues it has, and the abundance of glitches, so I will just leave 
 it here. But trust me, you will not be even the slightest happy when this ends up on your computer 
 screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXmarker
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 2:50 pm PT
Review:  If your thinking of taking Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing seriously, your going to think the game 
 sucks. But truthfully, it isn't that bad. Just don't take the game seriously and you'll have some 
 fun with this game.
  BROTRR is horribly glitchy. It has long loading times and crashes a lot. It is very incomplete. 
 You can drive up walls and drive through everything. You can actually leave the very map and enter 
 the Grey Void. The game is that glitchy.
  Now, who said that driving up walls can't be fun? The maps are fairly large and pretty fun to drive 
 around. And once your bored of them, it is even possible to modify the game's maps and create maps 
 of your own, although so far it is only known how to change the layout of the map, the textures 
 and even the starting point of the race. You can have a bit of fun with this and change the race 
 a bit, although so far you can't change where the checkpoints are as it is currently unknown as 
 to how it can be done.
  Replay value is a bit low though if you don't know how to mod the game. Doing the races normally 
 will have you finishing the four playable levels easily. If you want true replay value out of this 
 game, your going to have to do some exploring. Drive around the areas a bit, modify the areas to 
 make them different, try tactically driving through the checkpoints backwards and see what the 
 fastest time you can get is. In BROTRR, you can practically do whatever you want.
  The graphics are pretty mediocre at best. Nothing special at all. That's all I really have to say. 
 You can change the textures if you know how though, and this could help make them better or worse. 
 The camera is able to stay it a fairly good position at all times, except when going up nearly 
 90 degree mountains. When going up awkward mountains the rigs will usually bounce around a bit.
 
  Now let's talk about the patch. It is meant to fix many issues in the game but it doesn't. It 
 fixes the YOU'RE WINNER ! screen to YOU WIN ! and the CPU now travels on a fixed path through the 
 checkpoints (fixed as in it takes the exact same path always) . The game supposedly crashes less 
 too. Does it help make the game more fun? Well in my opinion, no. It doesn't really do anything, 
 and in some cases it can even make the game worse if your planning on modding it (modding a level 
 while your opponent is driving through the fixed path could make the game glitch) . The patch doesn't 
 really do much anyways, and you can live without it.
  If your planning on buying Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing, don't spend over 5 bucks on it. If there 
 is any way you can get the game for free or at a price lower than $1, you might as well give it 
 a try for the novelty. It's not as bad as everyone thinks. It's playable, just not as a racing 
 game. This game is in a genre of it's own, an unrealistic driving game. Don't take BROTRR seriously, 
 and you just might have some fun with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoW_201
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 2:07 pm PT
Review:  There would be tons of words to describe big rigs over the road racing and one of them would be 
 horrible.
  
  I remember i checked in my mailbox when i bought this game off eBay and i though this isnt going 
 to be THAT bad but i was so wrong i remember it crashing before i could even get to the start menu 
 so after 20 try's it actually worked then i relaised i just wasted my 15 hard working dollars on 
 this peace of **** .
  
  The graphics were horrible i just cant explain how bad the graphics are in this game.
  
  The 
 AI is even crappier when i started the race i went to go mow my lawn and i come back and the car 
 is just sitting there doing nothing. Overall Rating 1.5
  
  The people who made it are obviously bad game programmers, either that or they did it so they would 
 get fired and go to a better game producing company like DICE or EA (Even though i hate ea) .
  
  Please do not buy this game if you buy it to burn it that's ok.
  
  
  Thank you for looking 
 at my First gamespot review.
  
  EDIT: i bought the game again it Roks my soxs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JagDogger
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 5, 2009 5:10 pm PT
Review:  I umm. . . uhrr. . . ok? How and Why? Well there has to be at least one bad thing in every entertainment 
 category. From Movies to TV shows. From Consoles to Games. Reading upon this game, "Trial" try 
 and I thought I actually playing a game with almost no point when the only point is racing in Semis 
 and there are huge major glitches almost everywhere. Prior to trying this "game," I played 18 Wheeler: 
 American Pro Trucker for the Gamecube thinking that this "game" might have some kind of relevance 
 to it. None at all.
  
  Graphics - 2/10
  From looking at the images, the graphics look way below par. The truck definitely looks like a 
 truck but do not be fooled just by how the images look. even though you can go through stuff and 
 what does not make up for the bad graphics. Even better, every truck looks EXACTLY the same. No 
 notable differences at all.
  
  Gameplay - 0/10
  The gameplay is the most lacking of this game because it may be in the racing genre but do not 
 be fooled and be reeled into this one-man-racing-game. All that happens is that the computer just 
 sits there and if you try the cheat, it is not worth it. All that is being done is just going to 
 the finish line with absolutely no competition.
  
  Sounds - 0/10
  To reiterate about the Gameplay being the most lacking of this game, there is only one song in 
 the whole entire game which just loops and loops and loops and you get my point. No sounds, no 
 other music tracks, unless you turn the volume way, way down and you crank on some of your own 
 tunes on like your iPod, or CD player, or even a second computer to relieve the bad tune of this 
 "game."
  
  Controls - 2/10
  The controls are the most simplest of any game ever made for any system in any history of the gaming 
 history. The controls are so easy, a one-armed-person (no offense if you or someone you love, know, 
 or saw has one arm or leg. just trying to prove a point) could play this game in their sleep. How 
 easy are they then? Look at your directional buttons on your keyboard. That is all you basically 
 need to play this "game."
  
  Overall - 1/10
  You could put this on a Nintendo 64 cartridge and get a bit more sales out of this game but I have 
 not seen it yet and seeing that Nintendo does not want to deal with the Nintendo 64 anymore, I 
 guess Stellar Stone and GameMill Publishing are stuck with what nonsense they made. I guess Stellar 
 Stone learned because after 2004, they stopped developing games (unless someone buys the name and 
 makes great games) but that would not relinquish this so-called "game" from the company's history. 
 If someone buys this developer and makes a sequel to this game and it is so much better such as 
 getting 8s 9s and a few 10s, I would not know what to do or say. I would not know what anyone reviewing 
 this game would think of it until they posted their reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreak3111
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 1, 2009 9:30 am PT
Review:  O. K.... Let's start this.
  
  Big Rigs, is a terrible game. In fact, it may be one of the worst games ever. The best part of 
 this game, is that you do not have to buy this game.
  However is a revolutionary marketing attempt.
  First off, let me start off with this: Good games 
 sell right? 
  Yes they do. 
  AMAZING games sell astronomically well, right?
  Obviously!
  Well, what I think Stellar Stone (the developer) did here is attempt to PURPOSEFULLY 
 make:
  The Worst Game Of All Time.
  Think about it: this game will not be remembered as some shelved classic that web sites will make 
 references to. The fact that this game is so bad makes it transcendent, and simply compelling to 
 buy. I want this game, because it is the worst game ever. Think of the uses, it would be excellent 
 at parties, where you could entertain your guests with the comicality and openness of the game's 
 horribleness and how they even released a patch to the game, THAT DID PRACTICALLY NOTHING.
  
  This game will be remembered for a long time, not like some old Alien vs. Human run-of-the-mill 
 Galactiga-like game that got a 9/10 from all the critics. Nooo.... this game will be purchased 
 forever, because it's just hilarious how BAD this game is! Don't believe me? take a look at this 
 game's effect on its user reviews. It's so bad, people make many, many hilarious fake reviews about 
 this game. They all give it 10/10 because it's just HILARIOUS!!!!!!! Even I want to go out and 
 buy this game RIGHT NOW because it's just so bad it's blasphemously enticing. WHO would not want 
 this game, to show to your friends, family and associates?
  
  One final thought: Everyone's always been trying to make the best game ever, so Stellar Stone tried 
 to make the best of the opposite end of the scale. This game will be remembered forever, and its 
 hilarity will continue 'till the end of time.
  
  
  
  
  When I said that I would buy this game, I wasn't joking. I WANT this game.
  
  Edit: I bought 
 it :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domenico54
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 5, 2009 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Hey heres how its gonna work. They give a full game, i'll give a full review. Tricked my moron 
 friend into getting this. He thought it was the "deal of the century" intill he shoved it in the 
 hard drive. It was great because he picked the bull-like truck and the map that was glitched and 
 it crashed on him. I peed myself laughing.... Steallar Stone is like a dry cleaning company i bet 
 it was a bunch of high teens addicted to they're RPGs and had one to many red bulls. My backwords 
 donut speed was about 7000 km/h. Then the cars have the extraordinary ability to drive up 90 degree 
 angles. sweet. Bad driver? go through the buildings. Dont like bridges? Like swimming? Go throught 
 the bridge. Low self esteam? Try one race and your elected winner. And for reading this review, 
 YOU"RE WINNER too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameronrules36
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 12, 2009 3:44 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the video review of this game, I thought, why, why would they make this? There is no 
 point of playing this game.
  
  The good:
  -Good for burning in bonfires
  -Might be a fun joke to play occasionaly and just look at the hilarious glitches
  
  The Bad:
 
  -Graphics
  -Gameplay
  -Everything Else about the game
  
  You are this truck (Well not really a truck) and you drive around doing nothing and trying to beat 
 trucks that don't move. And when you bump into something, you go through it. I mean, OMG this sucks!
 
  
  If you buy it, you are the dumbest person alive, either that or you can make good use of it by 
 burning it. 
  
  This is the lousiest gameplay ever. Plus, your truck has no cargo.
  
  So what's the point of calling it "Big Rigs"?
  
  The people who made it are obviously bad game 
 programmers, either that or they did it so they would get fired and go to a beter game producing 
 company like traveller's tales or insomniac. 
  
  Seriously, there is absoloutely no point of getting this game unless you enjoy burning suckish 
 games. 
  
  Overall,2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nukeboy14
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 15, 2009 9:16 am PT
Review:  This game is sooooo hard to describe.... i mean how can i say that it is well ................. 
 BAD!!!!! , this thing is an insult to everything that is good in this world games ,youtube, ps2 
 you name it. however i think a better title would be: big rigs out of the world racing cos you 
 can go out of the map it self as in total infinity .... p. s you can take full speed if you reverse 
 and then just immediatly stop if you stop pressing the back button . oh p. s you don't have any 
 laws of physics .... di you guys forget isaac newton's laws of physics cos when you go on a mountain 
 you go straight up and don't stop and you can go through stuff oh and your opponent does not move.... 
 thats all i gotta say for this .. this this how can i say it "HORRIBLE PEICE OF CRAP!!!!!!!!!!" 
 so are you happy now that i have showed my full anger to this "thing" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkidRow18
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 7:00 am PT
Review:  As a truck driver now, i found this game very inspiring. In my 20s, I was dreaming about a game, 
 a game like this............ now, i can't believe that my dreams have come true! 
  
  This game have amazing graphics that makes you want to play the game over and over again! The truck 
 in this game is well modified and it has a great look on it! 
  
  Not only that, the truck can accelerate and remain at constant speed even when going up a slope 
 or down a slope. Well, if that isn't enough, let me tell you that this truck can even move faster 
 than a speed of sound when reverse! Isn't that awesome? The truck also have some special power 
 like it can drive through walls and pass through underground. It is like the truck have undergo 
 a full modification by the crew members from the hit TV series "Pimp my Ride: God edition".
  
  Most game don't let you explore the arena but this game let you ride over mountains and even 
 explore out of the whole arena! The race is seriously intense and you can't afford to lose because 
 if you lose you can't get to see a message written "YOU'RE WINNER!". Winning is everything, just 
 by seeing "YOU'RE WINNER!" makes the best out of your days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoBlueDragonEX
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 4:43 pm PT
Review:  The people at StellarStone games should each be given a beating for creating this wreck of a game. 
 Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is the worst game I've ever had the pleasure to see. I don't even 
 have this game, but I've seen enough YouTube videos to form an opinion. Now, the reason this game 
 didn't get a flat out 1.0 is because the grass and mountains look halfway mediocre. Everything 
 else, however, is a joke. Let's start with your so-called ''trucks''. Each truck looks the same, 
 and has the same speed. You have a choice between 5 stages. Check that: 4 stages. ''Nightride'' 
 takes you back to the main menu. You start off against an opponent that might as well not be there. 
 As you drive, you fall through bridges, go 100 miles up mountains, drive through buildings, and 
 if you're lucky, end up in a white endless void. This all happens without you losing any traction, 
 and when you're finished: Congratulations! "YOU'RE WINNER!''. This game makes me sick. For all 
 you idiots that are being too sarcastic and giving Big Rigs a 10, I hope you know that Big Rigs' 
 reader average is now 3.3! Congratulations, you made Big Rigs 
  "Bad", not "Abysmal". I feel nauseous now. I should stop typing this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricFWaters
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 9, 2009 6:30 am PT
Review:  When I heard of this game, I thought it was a boogeyman invented by game developers to keep the 
 game community up at night. But no... it exists.
  
  This game may be undeniable proof to the non-existence of god. Or this could be something straight 
 out of the bible... one of the first unholy signs of mankind's demise.
  
  Whatever this game represents, it is undenialbe that if Hitler and Satan were in a room together 
 playing this game they would be overwhelmed by the evil emanating from their computer monitor.
 
  
  In this game what is black is white, what is up is down, and what is mountainous is easily climbable. 
 Backward is faster than forward. This game is one giant leap backward (upwards of infinite miles 
 an hour in reverse) for game development.
  
  Tread lightly. 
  
  Warning: Play only in well ventilated areas with the lights on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BornGamer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 6:52 pm PT
Review:  What really remains to be said about Big Rigs? The reviewer's scores say it all... Straight 10's 
 from everyone. Some reviewers even go so far as to place a decimal point between the one and the 
 zero as if to give it an extra stamp of bold approval - but none is needed.
  
  Even the most awestruck, fawning, sycophantic review is little more than blasphemy to a game that 
 not only redefines the word "PERFECTION" but also steals its wallet, punches it squarely in the 
 face and openly laughs at it.
  
  The most heartbreaking aspect of Big Rigs is that it all seems so effortlessly thrown together 
 by the devs - surely a grave insult to hard-working programmers and designers who toil for years 
 to create games that barely reach a trillionth of a percent of the excellence found in this mindblowingly 
 awesome game. 
  
  Nothing else needs to be said... Just fire this bad boy up and witness the ultimate apex of human 
 achievement as you swirl helplessly into an infinite vortex of win.
  
  Graphics: x
  Sound: x
  Gameplay: x
  Reviewer's tilt: x
  "X Factor": x
  
  (x = perfection) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flanderosa
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 4, 2009 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Where to start? Sometimes you come across a game so monumentally bad that it defies any real attempts 
 to review it. I'd read about the game, checked out the video review on GS and thought I had to 
 check it out for myself. God, I'm glad I did. This is just eye-poppingly awful in every single 
 way imaginable, as to make even some of the crappest games I've ever played look like masterpieces. 
 I reckon Turn 10 could do a version of Forza on the ZX Spectrum that'd be better than this.
  
  The concept I'm not really sure about. For some reason you're driving one of 4 or 5 (can't 
 remember exactly, trying to block it out) near-identical trucks and racing them against a single 
 AI opponent. Or something like that. AI is being extremely kind as the programmers have kinda misplaced 
 any semblance of AI. At the start line you find 2 trucks. Only one will move - yours. Controls 
 are reasonably responsive, in that when you press up you will actually go, and if you press left 
 and right your truck will move somewhere in those directions. You will soon notice, however, that 
 you are in fact, driving for Casper the Friendly Ghost Haulage Ltd, as it has an uncanny ability 
 to float through walls. Pretty handy, when the handling of your truck resembles Bambi on ice. Did 
 I mention that your truck is capable of travelling up cliff faces and mountains? Another fringe 
 benefit. Check out your reverse gear too, and discover the secret of perpetual motion. Don't worry 
 if you think you're going too fast - take your finger off the button and you'll come to an immediate 
 stop.
  
  Track design is so uninspiring to be utterly forgettable. In fact, I played it just 5 minutes ago 
 and I can't even remember how many tracks there are. I do remember though that due to a wonderful 
 glitch in the game you can't play one of them - even on the highest spec systems this circuit will 
 prove to be an awesome challenge. Make it through a lap (and trust me this is a challenge as the 
 Esc button seems to be magnetically attracted to your left index finger throughout the game) and 
 you are presented with a jaw-dropping ending. Forget Square Enix RPGs, Gears or BioShock - Big 
 Rigs contains the most awe-inspiring ending of any game on any platform of any generation. The 
 unique three-handled trophy is one you will wish to keep in your cabinet for decades, so that your 
 children can marvel at your achievements. And the game's congratulations upon your herculean struggle 
 will fail to soften only the hardest hearts. 
  
  Big Rigs is truly awesome in every respect. Graphically glitchy, flat and totally lacking in any 
 detail. Sound is so brilliant as to be non-existent - unless it's at such a frequency that only 
 the dogs can hear it. Controls are made completely redundant by a total lack of any refinement 
 in collision detection or bridge building. Add to this, a High Score table that doesn't collect 
 or display scores (more to the point, does the game even have a scoring system?) and a total inability 
 to play one of the, frankly uninspiring courses, and you have the worst game ever published. This 
 game was utter bilge for 2003 when first released, let alone 2009. One question remains however: 
 WHY DO I KEEP COMING BACK TO IT?! 
  
  (NB - Multiplayer functions unavailable at time of review - and maybe forever) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marinamanson
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2008 3:20 am PT
Review:  This is the best game ever made. This game is like god. This game redefines gaming as a true art.
 
  Big Rigs is like abstract modern art. It is an expression of the true repetitive pointlessness 
 of modern life. Every aspect is a metaphor. For example, the trucks all being almost the same? 
 It highlights how despite small visual difference everyone is inevitably the same. The crashes 
 (of the game, not of the trucks) show how life can end suddenly and unexpectedly. It shows how 
 you should make the most of life, and playing this game will be doing just that.
  This game is absolutely flawless. The graphics, sound and gameplay perfectly suit the artistic 
 vision of the game. I cannot find a single fault in it. You cannot play this game and not instantly 
 be absorbed in its beauty. And like few games, this will teach you a valuable lesson about life 
 itself.
  
  10/10
  But it deserves it better than a perfect score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SethiXzon
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 14, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  When I played this game, I was lucky I had some matches, because right after I played this... well, 
 you can say I made the world a better place. Gamespot should allow a zero just for this game! What 
 I mean by Difficulty: Very Easy, I mean no difficulty at all! You can drive through anything, the 
 physics are... oops, there ARE no physics! You can even spin and increase your speed without limit. 
 Whoop de doo, I'm spinning at 7 million MPH! That's the funnest thing about this game. At least 
 E. T. could have been better (Production was rushed) , a child could do better than Big Rigs. No, 
 not "over the road racing", there IS no racing! The enemies don't move, and the game detecting 
 that you've actually completed the track is broken. The patch makes the other cars move, but they 
 stop before they reach the end. Looks like there's no "YOUR LOSER!". That's a good thing, because 
 anyone seeing that message would destroy their computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is the complete meaning of destruction and abysmality. It is so 
 disastrous that in the beginning I thought that it was a fan-made game. Have the developers of 
 this mess ever used drugs or something?
  
  It is pontless to talk about it much. The racing mode does not exist, as the rig is not moving 
 at all: on the contrary the environment is moving. The other rigs seem to be driven by no-one, 
 there is no AI in this game. But the worst thing about it is the complete lack of a solid ground 
 to race on: everything is clipped by your rig, like you are driving into the world of dreams or 
 something alike. There are no options to get the game working. And to end up with, there is no 
 difficulty in what the game calls races. All the same, you will be the one and only winner, forever.
 
  
  There is no point in playing Big Rigs. You should avoid this game right away, for this touches 
 negative perfection and beyond. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinjia32
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 11, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  So you may ask why I have written that so sloppy. Well, let's ask the game publishers shall we? 
 GameMill Co. How would you like a game that for every word, a letter was missing? Well, this is 
 what Big Rigs feels like. There is no purpose. There is no environment. I could do better. If I 
 could, I would give this game a 0. But I can't. So I'm writing it out on this review. Don't buy 
 it. I'd rather torrent a FREE game than torrent this.
  Instead of telling you what this game is like, I'm going to ask questions.
  Why is there no AI?
 
  Who allowed someone to publish this junk?
  Why does nothing happen?
  Why is there no cargo?
  Why can I float through buildings?
  How come bridges arn't existing?
 
  Whos te ****** who made this music????? 
  I could go on forever.
  My score-
  -Nonexistent- (Am I allowed to use negative numbers?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NPCUSER
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 5, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be the most unfinished game i've ever had the misfortune to play. You can go the 
 same speed up an almost vertical mountain as you can on a flat road. There are no map boundaries, 
 so once you reach the boundary of a map, you're free to wander off into a white sea of nothingness. 
 There are a few buildings and bridges, but you go straight through them, as if they never existed. 
 Also, how can you label this as a racing game when there is nothing to race against? There is no 
 AI programmed into the game, so when you start a "race", other trucks just sit there at the starting 
 line, forever. Pressing and holding down the reverse key will make you go infinitely faster backwards, 
 but when you let go of the reverse key, you come to a dead stop. How can you release a game to 
 the general public when it is still at it's larval development stage?
  
  Conclusion: There are a million better things that you could do with your time. Rent a movie, or 
 go to a friend's house, but do NOT play this game. Seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desulated
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Well, I was actually surprised that my school had purchased this game and installed it onto one 
 of their computers. So I was excited to a play a racing game where you outrun the police! I played 
 it, and IT WAS AMAZING!
  
  The gameplay was AWESOME that it defeated even the GTA series by a longshot! The trucks could go 
 from 0 km/h to 1000000000000000000000 kilometers per hour in less than 0.0000000000000000001 seconds! 
 Well, I was amazed, and it was so easy to win! AND YOUR TRUCK COULD GO THROUGH WALLS!!!!! I was 
 like WOW! AWESOME! My reward in the end? A YOU'RE WINNER and a spinning gold trophy! 
  
  The music was also insane. It was the best music ever! Nuff said.
  
  Graphics? Godly. Just 
 perfect.
  
  Storyline? Outrun the police and deliver vital cargo. That's it. Kind of like GTA, but without 
 the guns, explosions and drugs. But we can live with that, right?
  
  To wrap it all up, EVERYTHING UP THERE IS A HORRIBLE LIE! I exaggerated all of the above following 
 for those idiots who think this is the most godly invention ever. I actually felt sorry for my 
 school purchasing this excuse for a game. If you believed the entire review up there is true, you 
 my friend, are a complete, brainless, mindwashed degenerate. Except for the speed and flying through 
 walls "cheat."
  
  The only reason this game deserved a 1.5 instead of a 1 is due to the fact that it defies the laws 
 of physics to the extent that it becomes so hilarious.
  
  Seriously, go buy this game! It's a piece of treasure! Am I serious? NO! If you think I am, go 
 ahead and buy this game, but don't go crying in a corner and go all woe is me that you wasted all 
 your money on this piece of crap.
  
  That ends my explaination. Good day to all you mind-controlled losers who think this is a gift 
 from God himself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RikuNova
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 15, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  Just looking at the gameplay video makes me want to faint. I mean, there are so many "mistakes" 
 in this game that it shouldn't even be considered a game. So, let's see those "mistakes" that this 
 game has to offer...
  
  Firstly, this game doesn't have any law of physics. You can go up the mountains without losing 
 any speed. You jump over them but there isn't any hang time. It's like the truck refuses to leave 
 the ground.
  
  Secondly, the truck accelerates way too fast when you reverse, continue accelerating infinitely 
 faster, and will stop the second you let go.
  
  Thirdly, this game is full of bugs. Out of the five (yes, only 5) tracks avalible, only four of 
 them are playable. The last one automatically sends you back to the desktop.
  
  Fourthly, this game has absolutely no challenge. No matter how long you take to finish, the truck 
 will always stop right in front of the finish line, so basically losing is not an option in this 
 game. 
  
  I believe these are the "mistakes" this game has to offer. There may be many more, who knows?
 
  
  
  Oh, and did I mention...
  
  
  
  YOU'RE WINNER!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffinboy846
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 12, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Wow. The only fun you'll get from this game is destroying it. Story: 0/10: There is no story. Gameplay: 
 0.1/10: The concept is pretty basic, but when you ACTUALLY play this, you'll laugh. There is no 
 collision-detection, bad AI, awful graphics, and crashing courses. Fun!= (sarcasm...) . When you 
 win, you're treated to a virtual trophy and a now-famous grammar mistake called: "You're Winner!" 
 What... the... heck? It's also noting that only one truck is actually a Big Rig. HAHA! Why would 
 I even give gameplay a .1 in the 0? ????? Graphics: 0/10: I don't really need to explain. AI: NO 
 SCORE: Unless you download a patch, the AI partner won't even follow you, earning the AI score 
 a NO SCORE. 
  This game stinks. Bad. Read the other reader reviews, and you'll see how much people hate this 
 game, or like making fun of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martin-2-5-9
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 6, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Big Rigs is the most broken game I have ever played. I got it just for a cheap laugh with friends, 
 and now the laughing is over I had time to play it on my own and get in depth with the game.
  
  One thing I have to say is that it doesn't matter if you have the best graphics and CPU cards 
 available today, the game is still going to overload your PC one way or another. It takes over 
 70% of my CPU, Which is a lot. Jam packed with glitches, its such a stunner this game managed to 
 make it to the store shelves.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay, well there isn't really any actually. You are supposed to race against others and 
 deliver cargo against a clock... and the police!!!! Well, the back of the box told me that. The 
 fact is there is no police, the "other" person you race against just doesn't move and there is 
 no cargo. Its all nothing but a pack of lies.
  
  So seeming though there is nothing to do, you are tempted to make your own fun with the awful glitches 
 in the system. Sometimes when I review I do "Gameplay" "Physics" and such and such, but really 
 theres nothing else to discuss over than the glitches and bugs.
  
  Errors:
  
  The game is subject to an amazing amount of bad, horrible glitches and bugs. There is a lot everyone 
 knows about, such as the fact you can go up a slope 90degree and not lose speed, and that you can 
 spin around at an infinite speed. I said before about "physics"... Well, there are none seeming 
 though you stick to the ground the whole time and stay at the same speed.
  
  If you knew about that, then play the game and theres more bugs to be found.
  For instance, If 
 I hit the "esc" key, It gives me a very kind option to go back to windows, however if I click this 
 it still takes me back to the main menu. Theres nothing worse than not being able to leave the 
 most dreaded game ever, thankfully CTRL, ALT , DELETE gets you out of it. There is also some glitching 
 in the sound control, as they move together and the graphic options... really do not do a thing.
 
  
  One hilarious thing about this game is the fact you can go into a readme file. Which says things 
 such as "We have tested this game to make sure it works on all systems". Yes but, if you played 
 it you'd notice these errors. Something else is that to get the latest patch the readme file gives 
 you a link, however regardless to this, the link is actually a domain search website.
  
  Some of the levels won't work either, they crash the game down and override your CPU.
  
  One 
 main error is if you go to a random race, you just see "3...2....1.... GO!! YOU'RE WINNER!". You 
 don't have to do anything, you won!
  
  Overall:
  
  This game should never had made the shelves, its a revolting game which deserves even lower than 
 1.0. Gamespot won't go lower than 1.0, but maybe they should change that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanDmAN9001
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 5, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Wow. There is just way too much to say about this game. Oh, where to start. The physics engine 
 was developed by a 2 year old. Just the concept of it all, detailing from level design, to choices, 
 to realism were probably done on a 2 bit piece of crap of a computer while the developers where 
 probably half asleep. I found that driving in reverse is 10 times faster then actually driving 
 forward quite amusing. I laughed. And then I shut of the computer and curled up in a ball on the 
 floor. Overall, I wouldn't recommend you ever purchasing such a disgrace of a game. In fact, I 
 wouldn't even recommend looking at it in general. If you are stupid enough to actually waste 5 
 dollars on this, then you just lost 5 very good dollars. Please. Don't do it. I know it's tempting, 
 even just for the kicks and giggles, but spare yourself of a terrible fate. You and your graphics 
 card are better off playing "Pacman." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exotic47
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  When I first was alone in the boring PC era stuck with abysmal games like Half Life 2, Crysis, 
 Gears of War and Bioshock, I was all out of hope, until I came across a bargain bin filled with 
 the greatest games I've ever seen, especially Big Rigs. I had to buy this game, the flaming rims 
 on the truck, the speeding trucks going down the map and on the highway, what more can I say about 
 this game, it's abolutely perfect! You HAVE to be retarded to say that these aren't the mot impressive 
 graphicss you've ever seen (can't wait till it's ported on the PS3 in stunning HD 1080p) , and advance 
 sound effects. What I adored most of this game was the most impressive physics I've ever seen in 
 my life, forget Bioshock, this game OWNS. Epic Win! Way to go, GameMill!!!
  
  (Now I'm going to ask you a question, why are you still reading this review?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LooneyCass1
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 2, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Big Rigs has to be the worst game of all time. How amazed I am to believe that someone would TRY 
 to make this game (which probably took only 10 minutes) and sell it without even looking at it... right? 
 I mean come on! How can you sell it after playing this garbage? The creator of the game must have 
 just said, "Screw it!" and sold it. As the main review said, you drive without any competition 
 and you can go anywhere, and when I say anywhere, I MEAN ANYWHERE!! There are no boundaries... not 
 even on the scenery. You can just go straight through them. You go through each checkpoint until 
 you get to the finish line with an unsatisfying win... You're Winner.... This game is so bad, that 
 they can't even spell the thing right! Do not go near this game! Do not even look at it! It's a 
 waste of time to even get the thing. The only fun thing you can do is UNINSTALL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LisforLoser
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  OMG!!!! this game is amazing, just when you thought superman on the nintendo 64 was a epic friking 
 masterpiece, a game like this comes along to change it all.
  
  this game is soo badass graphicly, that it crashes before the title screen on uberpowerful machines.
 
  
  not to mention its soo realistic. when you drive your truck through a house, its goes straight through, which 
 is what a big rig truck driving at 200 mph would do if it drove through a house!
  
  you can drive up 90 degrees with no speed drop AT ALL!!
  how f**king badass is that?!
  
  
 the game has some of the most badass racers you'll ever see! they are so badass, they dont even move!!!
 
  
  its looks soo good, i have never seen 3d like this ever!
  
  its has soo much freedom, so much, in fact, you can explore heaven!! how awesome!!!
  
  look, bottom 
 line, you should buy this game!!! its even better than superman 64, im not lying!!!
  
  
  
  
  
  ps i was in a comma since 1981 and big rigs and superman 64 are the first two games ihave 
 played since i awakened two hours ago ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZaininatoR
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 23, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Well, i borrowed this game from a friend yesterday, who said it was, The most exhilarating game 
that he's ever played.
  
  
  So i installed it and played...
  
  
  I discovered that it's just garbage on a disk...
  
  
  You get to choose from an array of 
 trucks, totaling 4 .. wow...
  
  I chose the bull looking one, because it looked tough and fast... I then chose a map, and all of 
 a sudden the game crashed. I started it up again, choosing the same vehicle, but different map. 
 This time it loaded, there is a car in the loading screen which is funny because the game is about 
 trucks... not cars. When it loaded i was horrified to find a little b**ch *ss truck, terrible graphics, 
 no sound, and the opponent didn't even move... 
  
  I decided to free roam, i found the truck to be extremely slow, but it gradually got faster...
 
  
  I wanted to go up a mountain, but accidentally went towards a steep slope, i knew i was going to 
 crash, but to my amazement, i went straight up, no losing any speed or anything.. the slope was 
 about 90 degrees, so it's a little unrealistic to be going vertically up, at 80 km/h.
  
  When i reached the top, i decided to reverse, and i found that reversing is faster than accelerating 
 in the game... I went to a speed of 200 km/h, then stopped, the speed dropped straight to 0 km/h. 
 I did a reverse burnout and found that you just spin in circles and your speed just keeps increasing... 
 I managed to get to 5000 km/h o. O 
  
  
  
  In the end.. Big rigs is a really bad and unfinished game, with NO potential whatsoever. Who ever 
 developed the game must have been sitting in the toilet with his laptop TRYING to program it 2 
 days before the release.
  
  Don't even waste 50c on this piece of garbage, as it will take up your Hard Disk space.
  
  
 
  
  Graphics 0
  Sound 0
  Gameplay -1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dainsanereview
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  big rigs overrated road racing. this is gotta be one of the worst games of all time i could compare 
 e. t for the atari 2600 so easy to this GODLY obmination. this game has 3 cars aka trucks and has 
 3 tracks 2 u cant ride like anyone would wanna ride it and the cover it has cop cars and yet there 
 not in the game WHAT WERE THEY THINKING? the graphic are a like a confessed dead skunk 
  this game makes no sense what so ever and like there is a bridge and u go right throught it i mean 
 how lame it like ATTACK OF THE flying ghost car BEEP BEEP CRASH! BOOM EXPLOSION. heres a real joke 
 when u go backward and turn go in a cicrle and u could keep aclerating to 1,000,000,000,000,000,000 
 i think and u also get to throught walls and builder this game so much breaks the laws of pyshics. is 
 it a rent or buy game no it is a DESTROY ever copy of this game type. if u find this game destroy 
 this game of else.
  graphics 0
  control 0
  sound 0
  gameplay 0
  overall 1.0 i wish i could of rated this -ifinity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 22, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  By now, I think it isn't any news speaking about Big Rigs (2003) as the ultimate piece of crap 
 in the gaming history. Developed by Stellar Stone and published by GameMill, this game tries to 
 fit in the 'Truck Racing' genre, although you'll notice that Big Rigs doesn't work as a racing 
 game... well, it doesn't even work after all. I prefer to think about it as a guide for game developers, 
 something like "How not to make a game". So, if your game includes any of the bugs present in Big 
 Rigs, then something is really wrong with your job.
  
  This game lists all the possible major bugs that a gamer can ever experience in his entire life. 
 First of all, your only adversary will never start moving his truck, so it's impossible to lose 
 in Big Rigs. And when you win, a horrible message appears: "YOU'RE WINNER!". But, if you're creative 
 enough, you can consider as "YOU'RE LOOSER!" when an illegal operation occurs (which happens often) , 
 crashing the game to the desktop.
  
  Nevertheless, you have a goal in Big Rigs: reach all the checkpoints, therefore completing a lap. 
 To do so, you can use the innumerous shortcuts present in the tracks, since you can pass through 
 buildings, trees and every possible object as if they weren't in there. Thus, bridges also suffer 
 from clipping problems, and you'll continue your way down on the river below. But the most noticeable 
 flaw in this game is the physics, simply because they're ignored. The truck can go 90 on a mountain 
 and will never fall, and the speed doesn't ever change.
  
  It's clear that Stellar Stone released Big Rigs as a beta or alpha version. The box says that this 
 game features police chasing, but there is literally no cops in it. You also have the option to 
 choose between five tracks, but one of them always crashes to the desktop when it's been loading. 
 By now, I think it's not too surprising if I say that there is no sound in Big Rigs. You can "fix" 
 some of the bugs above by applying the official patch. It will make the opponent's truck to move, 
 add sound and correct the non-function track. The problem is: the opponent will never finish the 
 lap, stopping at the last checkpoint; the update adds exactly only four sound effects; and the 
 fixed map is actually a mirrored version of the first track.
  
  Gravity is very strong in the Big Rigs' planet, since your truck is always fixed on the ground, 
 and it will never jump or fall no matter the circumstances. No, not really: in Big Rigs, just like 
 in Far Cry, you can go off the usual area and explore the outside. The problem is that the "outside" 
 in Big Rigs in an endless white rendered ground, which makes your truck to frequently jump and 
 fall (the only moment your truck can actually go off the ground) .
  
  Probably one of the most bizarre aspects in this game is the unlimited speed you can get by pressing 
 both the break and the left/right direction buttons. And if you decide to release the keys, the 
 truck will abruptly stop. 
  
  Talking about controls, you can press 'F1' to see the help window. It only says that you control 
 the truck with the directionals and that the 'ESQ' key pauses the game. The pause option actually 
 brings a menu that allows you to either return to the game or to quit to the Windows. In truth, 
 the last option will bring you to the main menu instead.
  
  In fact, I found one more button that can be used to control the truck. The 'SPACE BAR' key is 
 used as the handbrake, which works equally bad as when you try to reduce the speed to the left 
 or right directions, ignoring once again all the physics laws (my top speed was 550 MPH, and could 
 be much higher if I wanted) .
  
  Even with all of those ridiculous bugs, Stellar Stone made an amazing effort with Big Rigs. Apart 
 from being the worst game ever developed, it became more popular than most games better than it, 
 and perhaps even sold more copies than them just to satisfy the curiosity of many. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PiIsARational
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Sergey Titov, of Taxi Racer ! fame has done it again with his Magnum Opus, Big Rigs: Over the Road 
 Racing. Building on the same amazing engine used for Taxi Racer, he has included awesome new features 
 such as The Grey Void, Amazing Physics and so much more. 
  
  The game never ceases to amazes me, the replay value is infinite. You're always left wondering 
 if truly is possible to have an You're Loser ! screen show up, always striking fear into the hearts 
 of rigists everywhere.
  
  The graphics are amazing, with subtle bump mapping and a very nice blend of high resolution and 
 low resolution graphics, Sergey proves that you don't need Bloom, Steep Parallax mapping, and other 
 graphical tricks to create a masterpiece.
  Not only this, but the game raises tough philosophical questions such as, "Are we really just racing 
 ourselves?" and "Is reality truly as we percieve it, or simply an illusion that we may pass through 
 at any moment?"
  If you can find this game, purchase it! It truly is a work of art that has stood the test of time 
 (almost 5 years!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bd0g5
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is no doubt the greatest game ever made! I play this every single 
 time I'm on my computer.
  
  First of all, the graphics are about twice as good as Crysis. You can easily tell that the creators 
 worked very hard
  on making all the trucks and scenery look amazing. There are many tracks to choose from! All of 
 them are AMAZING!
  Not only are there a lot of different tracks, there are a massive amount of trucks. 
  
  Most 
 racing games don't want you to explore anything. Though, Big Rigs lets you ride over the mountains!
 
  
  Winning races isn't that easy, your opponent is a fun challenge! If you win, then the game gives 
 you a nice 
  congratulatory message! YOU'RE WINNER! 
  
  This game is just pure win... I don't want to stop talking about it's amazing skill, but my review 
 would be way to big. 
  
  Obviously, this game is 10/10. Who wouldn't give it a 10? 
  
  Everyone who doesn't have this game, must buy it. If you have Big Rigs, then YOU'RE WINNER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pretzelmeister
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  Not much needs to be said about this simply awe inspiring masterpiece. It's a shame I didn't purchase 
 it on release because I would have been even more amazed. The distinctly crisp visuals are undoubtedly 
 the best on the market, and the artistic design is truly a spectacle to behold. It is quite apparent 
 that the developers have put in alot of time into tweaking the gameplay to perfection; the controls 
 are incredibly responsive and the AI is exquisite. Not only this, but the levels, as well as the 
 trucks themselves, are painstakingly modelled. Every detail is crafted beautifully, almost to the 
 extent of photorealism. Other developers should learn a thing or two from the amazing graphics 
 team.
  I would most certainly reccomend this game to anyone who can find this rare beauty, as it is decidedly 
 hard to find in retail stores. YOU'RE WINNER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Betwig
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  I was just kidding this game is HORIBLE. It makes me wanna go kill the programers. It has... well 
 the most amount of glitches and bugs I've ever seen. Also it's enough to put a tear to your eye 
 and vomit on the floor. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. This game will kill you. Any way back to the "review" 
 this game is so bad you have to run away hide somewere lock the door and then light everything 
 on fire. Wait did that make sense? Any way it has the WORST BUGS EVER. Is this a race or a fast 
 drive down easy street? Hey when I'm done I get a nice little message "You're Winner". It makes 
 me feal like it was a good game. Then I vomit on the ground a little bit. And this is making me 
 write more then I want to. I saw this game in the bargin bin at K-Mart. I told the guy that works 
 there you should but this in the toliet section becuse it's a peice of poooooop. Again this game 
 has many flawls one time my truck disappeared. It really did! And then it appeared again. I think 
 this game should be called "Ghost Rigs Under the Road" becuse you just run right though stuff/ 
 This game could of had potental but then I thought "It's sucks who cares?" then I went back to 
 playing Star Ocean :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RodinaRossija38
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Paying 5 dollars for this game was actually not that terrible. Despite what people say, everything 
 works perfectly and the game itself is alright, not perfect, but alright. 
  
  The engine this game supports is pretty similiar to that of Call of Duty 4, lots of bloom, shine 
 and equisite textures. The models are pretty solid too for a game of the year it was published.
 
  
  The gameplay is probably where the game shines. It has extreme replayability. The Intelligence 
 of the opponents you race is pretty sophisticated, especially when you bump them. I mean it's so 
 real! If you push the other truck, the driver gets angry and sends you flying over the mountains 
 and you lose... sort of, but it's still extreme fun to watch. Anyway, physics are pretty good.
 
  
  I gave this game an 8 because the multiplayer servers are extremely unactive due to everyone thinking 
 this game is horrible. Well, I would recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShenX
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 20, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the game you give to people when you want them to not be gamers anymore.
  
  It sucks. Period. End of Review. The only reason why this goes on is because GameSpot thought it 
 needed to make people write at least 100 words about this.
  
  Can i send this now? Nope.
  
  Not to copycat, but i would rather have a buffalo take a diarrhea dump in my ear. Rather eat 
 the rotten **** of a road-killed skunk and down it with beer.
  
  You know the rest of the words, now don't you.
  
  In review, don't ever, play this game. Ever.
 
  
  **** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** 
 **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** 
 **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** 
 **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** 
 **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** 
 **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** 
 **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** 
 **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** 
 **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ******** **** **** ****
  
  Yay censorship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheApocXPress
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 14, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  I'm not even gonna give a full review. It's just crap. I doubt Stellar Stone is a real company, 
 just a bunch of teenagers who are addicted to MySpace. I'll give a freakin' review when nothing's 
 broken. You clip through everything. You know, they should fire Stellar Stone. Or at least kill 
 them all with an RPG. That'll work. I mean, hey, ET worked fine, and it had pitfalls EVERYWHERE. 
 BROTRR gets a 1.... out of 10. I can't give a legit review if this crap doesn't work! Let's see, 
 um... When you hit the reverse key, it speeds up to infinity, and then stops dead when you release. 
 These are games that want gamers to get a life outside gaming. That's how bad these games can be. 
 There's -- There's no grammar. Y O U ' R E W I N N E R isn't grammar. It's not grammar. They're teaching 
 the kids to do everything half-arsed so they can still get money. And most of the time, it confuses 
 the start with the finish so you get Y O U ' R E W I N N E R 1 second in. The End. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atari_7200
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 11, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be a joke. No game can be this bad. Even games made in game maker by 9 year olds 
 can't even be this bad. There is count less glitches in this game. For example.
  
  1. Your opponent does not even move a inch in a race.
  2. You can drive straight up steep cliffs 
 without slowing down at 40 mph.
  3. You can drive right off the damn map!
  
  Did the developers take loads of anti-depressants and smoke crack in the making of this game? E. T 
 for the Atari 2600 is god compared to this game.
  
  The cover art for this game is a complete LIE! Big rigs over the road racing advertised a truck 
 driving at high speed on a country high way with the police storming towards them. Guess what? 
 There is no such thing in this game. What the hell stellar stone! 
  
  The aim of the game is to race your poorly textured truck around the map. There is really no point 
 to this. Like I said, your opponent does not move a inch so you know you have automatically won. 
 There is one track in the game that does not even work. So what the point of even having the level 
 in the first place. The way stellar stones mind works is a complete mystery. Now once you've complete 
 the race. You will be reward a 2D trophy with three handles saying "You're winner." That's it? 
 I get a poorly designed trophy saying "You're winner?" WHY HAVE I NOT UNINSTALLED THIS GAME YET!!!!
 
  
  Now what about the sound.... Guess what?.... THERE IS NOT ONE PIECE OF AUDIO IN THIS GAME.... I'M 
 SERIOUS....
  
  The worst thing about this game is they sold it to people for $20. I would not even sell my own 
 waste to them. Stellar stone should be paying me to play this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VideoGameNerd77
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 4, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Definately the worst game of all time. However, the is entertaining for a few minutes or so since 
 you're able to drive off the game world and go literally faster than the speed of light when going 
 in reverse. The completely insane things you can do in this game does make it fun for a while. 
 However, it gets very boring very fast. I can't believe Stellar Stone wasn't sued for false advertising. 
 Don't believe the lies. There are no car chases, no cargo, no gameplay, no sound, nothing. There 
 is practically nothing good about this game. In fact, it's so terrible, it doesn't even deserve 
 to be called a game. It should be called a crime against humanity.
  
  Graphics - 3/10
  The graphics are terrible. However, the sky actually isn't too badly designed.
  
  Gameplay 
 - 0/10
  There is no gameplay.
  
  Sound - 0/10
  There is no sound.
  
  Overall - I can't even give this game a score. There isn't and never will be a score low enough 
 to give this so-called "game". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalmaster12
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 30, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Ok. Big Rigs is without question, the worst game of all time. Before you "race," you choose from 
 4 terrible looking trucks and 5 terrible looking courses. Oops, did I say 5? Technically, there 
 are 5, but only 4 of them work. The other one causes the game to crash. Am I convincing you yet?
 
  
  As soon as you think you're going to get a real race, you're ripped off yet again. There is no 
 AI, just a truck that stands idiotically at the starting line, doing nothing whatsoever. Big Rigs 
 has no physics system, either. You can run right up an almost vertical mountain. Whenever you run 
 over a bridge, you sink right through it. Pathetic. Run into anything, and you go right through 
 it. No damage done to anything. Your truck's still shiny, clean, and scratch-free. I must say this 
 all is funny the first time you see it, then you want to throw the "game" away.
  
  Simply put, don't buy this game. It's a waste of time and money. Mark my words, you'll thank me 
 for this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vuk39
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 30, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  There is one place this game belongs, and that's six feet under- a nuclear plant. In a ziplock 
 bag. Being poked by demons of hell, or something like that. It's bad.... very bad.
  
  I'd rather not waste my time saying everything Alex said. He reviewed that game so I wouldn't have 
 to. So, Alex... I feel your pain, and I wish I didn't. This is one of those pains you don't want 
 to share. It's like being skewered on a stake alongside someone. Kind of hard to take comfort in 
 that you share it.
  
  Alex... I'm very sorry. If Greg won't give you a raise, just remind him you played this god-awful, 
 craptastic, gag-worthy game. If he still won't give it to you, dare him to play it until he does. 
 Once he's on the stake with us, I'm sure he'll understand.
  
  -Ace
  
  P. S- I can't pick multiple classifications? What a bummer.
  
  P. S. S- my real score is somewhere 
 in the negatives.... or at least, it must be, because there is not yet a number low enough for 
 this game. The lowest number that is just invented will always be this games score... let's just 
 call it variable C- for crap. and the score is 0.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adibabu
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 27, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  Such a Bad Game would be THROWN OUT of the game industries .it has terrible graphics And no Physics 
 At all .If you were going upslope the truck does not even Slow Down .
  
  IT has a million bugs . And the AI is dead  YOUR WINNER Some people 
 declare this satisfying but Come on this sucks you have to admit it . And for Idiots if you go 
 reverse in this game you can break the world speed record .... WINNER. Just don't buy this game. 
 If you are someone who is more of a satisfied idiot you might ask your retailer do give this for 
 free .
  
  Dont buy no buy OR YOU DIE YOU SHOULD HAVE NOT BUYED THIS GAME NOW I SHALL SHOOT YOU BECAUSE YOU 
 ARE WINNER .O YES THANKS ALEX NAVARO FOR THE AWESOME REWIEW YOU ARE RIGHT THIS GAME SUCKS REAL 
 BAD .AND IF YOU ARE READING THIS REWIEW AND YOU HAVE THIS GAME THEN WHAT THE **** LOL. DESTROY 
 THIS GAME OR MASTER CHIEF WILL COME TO YUR HOUSE AND DESTROY YOU. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 13, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I can say I have played a whole lot of bad games Action 52, Cheetahmen 2, Bebe's Kids they were 
 bad and this is just terrible. Big Rigs does claim so much as police cars chasing you as by looking 
 at the cover along with other cars on the road. This game is a pack of lies really I have never 
 seen anything so bad.
  
  The game has no intro it just takes you to the main screen it does let you chose from 4 trucks 
 does it matter which one you pick not really. The game has 4 tracks oh I am sorry 3 the other makes 
 the game crash not getting off to a good start are we. Well it just never gets any better so your 
 about to start the race and my opponent is doing nothing just stuck there wheres the fun none at 
 all. So now I am playing the game I find no other cars in the game and I am going throw buildings, 
 bridges and even flying in the air. Why is there a clock there you could take the whole day and 
 win if you want there is no point it does not even fit in the box they made for the clock. The 
 Rig has lights which are not even attached to it. When I press Tab I can play as my opponent and 
 if I press it again the game crashes If I play as my opponent the race will not end. The game has 
 no sound effects the truck can turn fast and even spin fast it can. I played this and got no music 
 I know it features music. So once your finished you get the famous You're Winner which then sends 
 you back to the main screen. The thing is it should be You're a Winner as that does make sense 
 but none of this game never makes sense I got want to know what were the developers smoking when 
 they did this.
  
  The graphics are horrible it is like an early PS1 game even worse then what most budget companies 
 have on offer. As for the patch Stellar Stone made it makes no difference it was still the same. 
 This game was clearly not tested and the people who created it clearly do not know what they were 
 doing it look at the credits it only names about 8 or 9 people. It is a shock to even find that 
 this was released which it never made a release here but I still got to play it. Check it out if 
 you want to see how bad it really is if not then stay away and watch the video with Alex Navarro 
 he does not even have to say anything at all you can see it in his face how bad it is. As for people 
 been stupid and rating the game a 10 just stop been childish and grow up review the game properly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfo6542
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  i got this game yesterday and i had a really hard time finding it but it was worth it i mean perfect 
 graphics i mean how can you guys say that the graphics of this game were not 1337 i mean really 
 look at all the screenshots and another great thing about this game is the awesome music i could 
 listen to it anytime thats how great the sound track is another awesome thing would probably be 
 flying trucks and that is very unqiue so i it is one of the many main reason why i LOVE this game 
 and i forgot to mention this but when the trucks fly sometimes they dont come down which is so 
 COOOOL and then after you go SOOOOOOO fast you get ported to this gray area i mean that is SUPAA 
 COOL another thing is the really hard bots/Ai they go to fast which is a challenge not found in 
 many racing games they give you about a really long head start and then after they go VROOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOM 
 and then boom they win and if you lose in this game which would happen often so the makers of the 
 game wouldnt make you feel so bad for buying this game whoops i mean for losing in the game they 
 say "YOURE WINNER" and if you really win it says "YOURE WINNER" so you win or lose you will still 
 feel good and the trucks also look so cool
  
  Good and Bad
  
  Good
  Best game ever
  Nice music
  Really hard ai
  Flying trucks
  Teleportation
  Worth its price
  Really cool 
 looking trucks
  
  Bad
  nothing really
  this
  game
  is too
  good
  to
  be
  true 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrNib
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Big Rigs: Over The Road Racing is by far not only the best racing game available, but it is also 
 hands down the best game ever made. Many games have tried to be WINNERS before hand, but turned 
 out to be losers in many aspects. What Stellar Stone has given us was the second coming, multiplied 
 by 11, and served with the finest cut of steak and the richest wine. Now, enough of gawking lets 
 take a look at what makes this game a WINNER.
  
  Graphics: Even after nearly five years this game is still the best looking game out there. The 
 game is entirely ray-traced to provide the best image quality, there is no 2D textures, everything 
 is 3d and life-like. Crysis fans should be jealous.
  
  Sound: The CD-Quality sound effects actually make it sound like you are in the rigs themselves 
 as your roaring down the road at mach speeds. The soundtrack also is just as perfect with the most 
 talented Metal groups contributing to provide the WINNING headbanging experience. 
  
  Game play: You speed through various courses, driving various rigs to beat your opponent to the 
 finish line, but watch out for the cops, they will do anything to stop you, such as laying down 
 spikestrips and setting up roadblocks.
  
  Replay Value: A real WINNER here, you'll be playing this until the end of time, hell, even then 
 you'll still be playing it.
  
  Final thoughts: This WINNER game made me a WINNER, it saved my life. I am going to leave you with 
 this message, YOU'RE WINNER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 18, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Look man, if you think this game is remotely good, then you seriously need a trip to Blockbusters. 
 Rent a DECENT game at least!! This game is so abysmally bad that hey, why don't we all make some 
 kind of group and try to burn every copy off the face of the earth? Sounds GOOOOOOD to me. Well 
 the music sucks, along with the graphics, gamesplay and just about everything else. Their is one 
 good thing about this game thought. Actually it's not really good at all but it sure it fun. If 
 you have this game or are planning to rent witch I really hope you don't, you can spend endless 
 amount of hours driving around finding glitches in the game, falling through the ground for no 
 apparent reason when all you did was brake. I guarantee you'll at least find 30 glitches in the 
 first 1-3 hrs you play. No matter if you play it 3hrs streight witch think is inhumanely possible 
 for this game, or you can just play it hour by hour. But anyway, I noticed that a lot of people 
 gave it a ten just to joke around and exaggerated how great the game is when it's really not. Well 
 I think thats rather dumb and if I really had to say what I think about this game, then I think 
 I'd get kicked off of Gamespot, but anyhow, it's a terrible game and so not the worth the price. 
 I really would of liked it if I could rate it 0.0 but I guess I can't. So I'm just going to stick 
 with 1.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 15, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  The good: Some how this was a successful game
  The bad: Completely broken in all ways, terrible music and graphics, litterally no collision detection, 
 Steller Stone released another version that was pretty much the same, worst game ever.
  
  Game-play: 1/10
  Graphics: 1/10
  Sound: 1/10
  Value: 1/10
  Tilt: 1/10
  Average Score: 
 1/10
  
  Ever dreamed of playing a racing game where you deliver cargo and race against police? If so, then 
 Big Rig's could've been your game (Could've being the key word) . However, since Stellar Stone wanted 
 a release to be on time, they left the game broken and glitched out.
  
  Ever wanted to crash? Big Rigs doesn't let you do that. You litterally go through buildings, bridges, 
 etc. Speaking of which, Big Rigs never lets you do anything. When you start, you'll be controlled 
 by the game instead of you controlling the game. Now how pointless is that? In the 5th level, it 
 crashes the game. Stellar Stone released another version fixing the glitch, but not the game, which 
 is retarded at the most.
  
  Graphically, Superman 64 is way better than this. There literslly is no sound, except for techno 
 music that sucks. Big Rigs is without a doubt, the worst game ever. I suggest you never play this 
 game if you know what's good for you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paul939
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2009 4:55 am PT
Review:  The problem with all these so-called "reviewers" is that they've got all fixed, narrow, one track 
 ideas and minds and thus don't know or realize rue talent. "Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing" is 
 one such game by Stellar Stone, that was so full of meaning and beauty, that the reviewers, blind 
 as they are, failed to spot it. Shame on you, ALL of you reviewers. 
  
  OK, so let's get down the serious part. No matter how much I say about this game, it is never going 
 to be enough. 'nuff said. The graphics are 10 times better than Crysis and MGS4 put together. So 
 full of beauty, so full of meaning, it just brings tears to my eyes just describing them. I still 
 am bleary eyed as I remember the lush scenery, the insurmountable mountains (they are easy to climb 
 over, but we'll talk about that later) . I love the brake lights that are so beautifully designed 
 so much that I wouldn't bother if they hovered in the air behind the truck. Houses, trees, streetlights 
 are so beautifully designed they are altogether on a different plane of existence. Some people 
 complained that you can go through all of them with crashing into any of htem, but they don't appreciate 
 the true meaning behind this work of art. You must think on a spiritual level about this game and 
 bother with corporeal trappings.
  
  The basic premise behind this masterpiece is that you have to race (Ah, the great human fallibility, 
 always want to prove themselves superior to others) with other opponents while avoiding cops and 
 the like. With the high standard of spiritual philosophy set by he graphics, the gameplay further 
 espouses the standards. Stellar stne rightly recognises the Human vice of superiority, and thus 
 does not condone competition. Thus there are no losers in this game, here everybody is a winner. 
 You can accelerate from zero to infinity in a matter of seconds, but who bothers about such trivial 
 details. What we have here is a work of art. The sound is so marvelously entrenched that mere mortals 
 will complain that they canot hear anything. Sinners, all of them. 
  
  In retrospect, I'm heartened by the fact that I played the game. I was advised not to by some infidels, 
 but I followed my gut instincts and I'm thank everybody for their encouragement. Take the leap 
 of faith and embrace this masterpiece. Trust me, You won't regret it. Now excuse me , because I 
 want to experience more of this masterpiece and won't be here forever. I have no need of life anymore. 
 Big Rigs is enough for me. GoodBye. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WINDWAKER1
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  I have seldom played a perfect game, but after playing Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing, I now realize 
 I didn't know what the word "Perfect" even meant. All my life I had been playing a cheap imitation 
 of perfection, when right in front of me, true art was to be seen. As I played Big Rigs more, I 
 felt myself actually crying, but wait! These were tears of joy; I had never experienced something 
 so astoundingly incredible such as big rigs. 
  
  The game's story is breathtaking. You play as a "CB talkin'rig driver trying to beat off every 
 other truck driver in the States, driving to 4 incredibly beautiful locales. The 5th area does 
 not work, but this can be taken as a metaphor for "Not everything in life will work". The developers 
 of this game could have said they were Sun Tzu and Confucius and I would have believed them. What 
 I didn't expect was the law chasing me down without even showing up in the game. It was a wondrous 
 and adrenaline-boosting feeling, knowing that somewhere the police were tracking you down and ready 
 to arrest you for god-knows-what. The characters developed like they would in a classic novel, 
 magnificently. The game's story showed an abnormally uncanny understanding about the dark and depressing 
 truths of Large Trucks. I caught myself shedding more than one tear when I was racing my opponent. 
 
  
  The game play of big rigs is an emperor in disguise. While the game seems to be shallow at first, 
 if you let the mind wander you could come up with your own adventures. The game is truly limitless; 
 there is no beginning, no end. Only big rigs. The game is overflowing with symbolism; the driver 
 you are racing remains stationary during the struggle. It is easily seen as a symbol of the driver 
 being lifeless, while you have enough heart to go on. The game's unique brilliance was designed 
 for only the most intelligent of gamers, as this can easily be seen only from them. The game teaches 
 incredible morals, too. The rig you drive can do anything it wants, go anywhere it wants to go. 
 This is the great message we should be sending to our children: You can do anything, even the impossible. 
 If I grew up with a copy of Big Rigs at my side, I'm sure I would have been a superior child than 
 one who aged without it. 
  
  There are only so many adjectives I can use for Big Rigs: Excellent, Incredible, Perfect, Mind-Blowing, 
 but I think one in particular sums up the game well: There. It is full of insight, intrigue, mystery, 
 and so much more. The adjective, like the game, has a much deeper meaning. No wonder the Video 
 Game media Dunces did not enjoy this game; they could not comprehend its brilliance. If you ever 
 find yourself a small payment away from playing Big Rigs, I plead with you to just try it. If you 
 love it, you side with me. If you do not, you are the trash that will soon overtake the world if 
 games like Big Rigs cease to exist.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: td_tempest
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Don't believe everyone! I'm here to tell you that Big Rigs is really the most AWESOME GAME EVA!!!! 
 This game, takes you on a whirlwind ride across America, with police hot on your tail! Don't worry. 
 The police are totally balanced in this game; I've never gotten caught once! And the races, where 
 you race against another AI truck? They rock too. I mean, I've never lost a single race! It was 
 a close call, but at the finish line, I pulled in ahead of the AI! And sometimes, they decide that 
 my skillz0rs are so 1337, that I start the race - and win! 
  
  And the graphics - I've never seen anything like them! The speedometer is nice! The lights, awesome. 
 They aren't fixtated perfectly on the truck, oh no. No static lights! These are dynamic lights, 
 able to change their position! And the lamp post and buildings. Excellent collision detection. 
 Especially on the bridge. And of course, the game's excellent physics systems. Its ... its ... 
 simply indescribable. 
  
  This game is a work of art! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: random_guy561
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 6, 2008 1:24 am PT
Review:  Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing has been made by Stellar Stone, a company that hires russian programmers. 
 The game really is very simple, infact too simple, as you only have 1 of 4 trucks in the game and 
 only 5 courses, by when I say 5, it really is 4. The game is so badly made that when you select 
 the track called "Nightride" the game will crash. Big Rigs does crash a lot. Its main menu presentation 
 is boring and bland, and there's only one option to do in the game: race. Well the term "Race" 
 may be questionable in Big Rigs, as the other AI controlled truck does not race you, it just sits 
 at the start line and doesn't move. When you get to the finish, the other truck is sat there just 
 before the line. You always win in Big Rigs, and you are greeted with a very stupid and bad grammar 
 line of "Your're Winner", and a animated trophy behind it. The game also has terrible graphics, 
 bland trucks that the breaklights arent attached to, they float behind the truck, rough textures, 
 boring looking buildings, trees and opponent vehicles. But thats not all about the the graphics. 
 The game simply does not register you bumping into stuff. You can clip through buildings, trees 
 and bridges. It looks ugly and rubbish. What were the developers thinking when they made this game? 
 "My big truck can easily pass through solid objects and can go up hills at full pelt, it can also 
 360 reverse while increasing speed infinetly!" The developers must of been so stupid while testing 
 the game. 
  
  Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is the worst game ever made, and if Gamespot review section allowed 
 me to have 0.5 as a score and if they offered merits and de-merits, I would of given Big Rigs all 
 of the bad ones. Honestly, down to earth, Big Rigs is the worst game ever put into production. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbox1273
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  This is a terrific game. Absolutely mind-blowing. Where should I start? The graphics are stunning 
 and you will be sucked in to it. The story line is very interesting and has movie like cutscenes. 
 You drive a truck that looks fantastic. Then, you must deliver goods to your friend so he can survive 
 or else he will die. SAVE HIM!!!!! You must get past those who try to stop you by driving up mountains 
 and speeding like crazy! You will not stop playing this game once you get started. The superior 
 qualities of this game are undescribable and play the game for yourself to find out. Please buy 
 this game............ IT'S TERRIBLE!!!
  
  Please do not buy this game, you would rather be killed than playing this thing. It is amazing 
 how they made such a horrorifically terrible game. That would take some real effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WetWilly1337
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  If you disagree, either you're insane or you haven't played it. Don't listen to the haters, this 
 is the most amazing game ever created in human existence. There is practically nothing that compares 
 to it. You simply can't describe by words the brilliance of it, but I'll try my best.
  
  As you first start the game you are right from the bat amazed by the slick menu design and inspiring 
 music. The game's art design puts Picasso to shame. It looks so unique with sharp textures and 
 environmental detail that completely triumphs over Metal Gear Solid 4 (note MGS4 was released this 
 year, Big Rigs was released 2003) .
  
  The story in this game is really complicated and involves memorable characters, unexpected plot 
 twists and an amazing ending (sequel please) . The voice acting is brilliant and fits the characters 
 perfectly and the cutscenes along with the performances are Oscar worthy.
  
  The gameplay is really where it's at, it's easy to learn, but hard to master. The physics are some 
 of the best I've ever seen and the level design is just genius. The game is also immensely satsifying 
 as You're Winner no matter if you lose or not. The enemy AI is incredibly realistic and no playthrough 
 is the same twice. The replay value is immense with an insane amount of content and treats for 
 the fanbase and references to their earlier masterpieces (such as Taxi Racer) .
  
  You HAVE to play this game. Everything about it is breathtaking, it immersed me from the beginning 
 and I'm currently on my 15th playthrough. It really is the best game ever, and no game will ever 
 exceed it. Ever. 
  
  Buy it. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NarutoFever1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Big Rigs is an amazing game. First off, the visuals. The landscaping is extremely beautiful. The graphics 
 are just absolutely stunning and perfect. From every tree to every grain of sand the visuals surpass 
 every graphical achievment ever put forth by any movie or game.
  
  
  Now, the sound. The game offers an extremely wide variety of excellent music. Every sound effect is 
 perfect, the screech of a braking truck, the rev of the engines. Everything. The music is just of a 
 whole new level and puts Motzart and other famous people to shame.
  
  
  The truck models are designed with utmost care. Every detail of the trucks is perfect. The headlights 
 ,tires, the mud that splatters on the truck every time you nail a puddle. Everything. You are given 
 a wide variety of trucks to choose from. They are all completely individual and unique. No two trucks 
 are alike in any way (mostly, some asspects of the truck such as speed and acceleration stats are 
 equal between some) . They will satisfy any need for a truck you expect.
  
  
  And finally, the story. Big Rigs is a story of love, heartbreak, smiles, tears and hardships. Everything. The 
 game provides 100 hours of gameplay, if you rush it. The level of gameplay, size of levels and detail 
 is something unseen to date. It is totally deep and complex you will be stuck to your computer. Also, the 
 characters are designed so well they are the average complexity of any human. The game mostly revolves 
 around challenging missions and police chases, basically everything and more of what you expect 
 of a trucking/racing game, but as previously stated, envolves complex characters and a dramatic storyline. There 
 are a lot of modes to choose from, but I can not talk about them because I am running out of time 
 to talk. It is so educational you would be smarter after about one hour of playing.
  
  
  I use the word everything a lot because truelly, Big Rigs has everything. You would not be able to 
 live without it, even if you not one to particularly like video games you will be sucked into the 
 captivating, charming, dramatic world of Big Rigs totally. It is truelly the best gamee you or I will 
 play. You NEED this game, it is worth every penny of the money you pay for it, ad personaly, it is 
 worth as much as diamond. Remember, when you get this, YOU'RE WINNER! (Hope I helped you to realize 
 the awesomeness of Big Rigs, and DO NOT believe bad reviews, they write them so you will not buy 
 it, because they basically would want to track every last coppy of this PERFECT game.) Now, I am going 
 to play more of Big Rigs, so, again hope I helped and remember, YOU'RE WINNER when you get this.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Dont take this seriously. Please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VideoGamerno100
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  Well, here's my review:
  
  Goal: To win a checkpoint race, but since there's no opposition, that's no fun at all. 3/10
  
 Controls: Filled of dumbness. You just press a keyboard arrow key and the thing just goes moving 
 without holding that arrow key. At least the truck answers to the controls. 2/10
  Gameplay: The worst part in this game. The truck goes past obstacles like they are invisible, sinks 
 in the bridges, instead of crashing into a mountain it climbs it without speed changes, and can 
 go off the limits of the environment. Not to mention that the truck moves by itself all the time. 
 0/10
  Graphics: They are so archaic, in one of the lowest gens (if not the lowest) . At least they haven't 
 been made by MS Paint or something. 1/10
  Music: Just some techno loops that don't even work. At least that's what the review states, I don't 
 know any BGM there. 0/10
  Sound: No sound effects. 0/10
  Loading: This was basically the only thing that went right. Or not so right, since the loading 
 should be quicker with the poor quality of this game. 5/10
  Accessories: The back of the game box stated nothing but lies. Cargo delivery? Police chases? The 
 only mode in this racer was the checkpoint race, a really boring one, since, as stated before, 
 there was no opposition. 0/10
  Difficulty: Well... it's medium. We've got the no opposition part as easy and the awry gameplay 
 part as hard! 0/10
  Fun: In games like these, there is no fun to be had. 0/10
  Overall Score: 11/100
  Conclusion: The worst PC game of all time and one of the worst games of 
 all time. If GameMill Publishing and Stellar Stone were planning to create the worst trucking game 
 ever made in history, then they did it. Sarcastic congratulations! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardabs
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  in this game you will find out early that it is the best game out there that is why it sold 1,923 
 copies. it was created by stellar stone who are known to make 10/10 games. so i decided to waste 
 my birthday money well and so i did. I love going to the top of a 90 degree hill at 368 mph and 
 just sit there. i was amazed at how they managed to pull out a great game in just 3 weeks. the game 
 has no physics. and has 6 rigs to choose from which is a wide variety. the track are an explosive. they 
 tend to allow to never crash which is great, you can even go over the road literally. when i first 
 installed the game i saw that there was no one else to race with. then i found out that it was always 
 there. the TIME. the campaign is so cool but you can never pass it because you have to make one lap 
 in 01:18 minutes.
  this is a total buy you must get this game. you will love going in the buildings and going 400mph 
 at 10 frames per second .the world is just so immense that it will make your computer run slowly 
 even if it has 4 processors. the map is so immense that the only thing your CPU can handle is the 
 road so if you try and get out you will only see white hills that will have you laughing your money 
 off your seat. all my favorite games have passed on except this one because i cant beat the campaign 
 which is to unlock all other 10 rigs that don't exist 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PvtHurst
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  big rigs is a great game for reasons very different for what one might expect. when i got big rigs 
 almost 4 years ago i didnt know what i was in for. the game was terrible, but this made it possible 
 to be great. the game was so bad that i found myself driving around it aimlessly, actually enjoying 
 the experience. i dont know why, but when playing this game you feel sublime. you dont expect BROTRR 
 to break any barriers or win any awards when you buy it, but it gives you an experience that you 
 soon wont forget.
  
  as you play you will actually enjoy going up 90 degree inclines at 400 mph backwards. its just 
 fun to do these things. i dont think a game should be called on how good the presentation is or 
 how the gameplay pans out, but how much fun the player has. and in big rigs, there is absolutely 
 no shortage of it. its quite possible that big rigs is so unique in its design that it be one of 
 the greatest games i have ever played. i mean think about it, a game with no purpose, no direction, 
 a lack of any real execution, and yet, its fun to play.
  
  it is just so comical to play it, so much so its difficult to describe. you can almost visualize 
 how a group of 5 or less russians set down and coded a game like this in less than a week. when 
 you drive off the map and start spinning around and flipping out you cant help but laugh. big rigs 
 is great in its own special way. here lyes big rigs almost savant genius, the worst game ever, 
 but at the same time one of the most fun. what sums up the game most is the classic "YOU'RE WINNER!" 
 screen at the end of every race.
  
  big rigs will make you laugh and smile, and in addition to that you can get it off of a torrent 
 site in about 10 minutes. many games came and went on my desktop, but big rigs has remained there 
 for 4 years. whenever i feel a little bored or want a good chuckle, ill start up big rigs choose 
 MEGAONE and climb a huge mountain on VILLAGE ROAD. company of heroes may fade, so will halo, but 
 you will always remember big rigs over the road racing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uberethair
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 11, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  well what can I say this game is the absolute peak of the gaming industry, the graphics are so 
 good I could take them to bed with me.
  The controlls are superb and handle like a dream come true, the physics put Half-life 2 to shame 
 and all other games should just give up and let the designers of this truly tremendous... no it's 
 not a game, it's a piece of art that should be cherished and loved by all.
  And.. and... Ok I just can't bring myself to say it, this game was like stapling your face to a 
 brick wall that's recently been taken to a war zone with HIV smeared on it, it was absolutely awful... 
 no there is yet to be a word to describe how fundamentally wrong this game is. I mean, it makes 
 Tunguska look like a good game, and I could sell toenail clippings easier than that game.
  I'm wondering what the people who made this were thinking, maybe they just thought "Hey I wonder 
 if we could make the single worst game in history" and the others just replied with "why not".
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fryboy715
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 2, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I haven't even played the game and it looks horrible. The graphics are probably the worst in the 
 world! Also, the trucks look terrible. By the way, who was the smart one to think of the idea of 
 making driving games about 18-wheelers? =) I am not the one to be judging whether you play the 
 game or not, I mean, I haven't gotten the feel for it yet, so don't make my review the one that 
 sticks out, I am just saying that the game looks pitiful, terrible, horrible, disastrous, butt-ugly-martian-ish, 
 if you know what I mean. =0
  
  I haven't even played the game and it looks horrible. The graphics are probably the worst in the 
 world! Also, the trucks look terrible. By the way, who was the smart one to think of the idea of 
 making driving games about 18-wheelers? =) I am not the one to be judging whether you play the 
 game or not, I mean, I haven't gotten the feel for it yet, so don't make my review the one that 
 sticks out, I am just saying that the game looks pitiful, terrible, horrible, disastrous, butt-ugly-martian-ish, 
 if you know what I mean. =0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandtheft360
Rating: 2
Date: May 17, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  This game is not as bad as people say it is. Sure it's unfinished and still a terrible game, but 
 i like the idea of it. You can do whatever you want whenever you want. Go up hills at top speed, go 
 right through buildings, stop instantly and ever drive into the sky. I wouldnt' recommend it i 
 am simply saying that it's bad but underrated. Although i dont understand some of the tracks too (a 
 track with the word "1" at the end when there is no "2". I don't get how the ESRB could take watching 
 the same thing over and over again to finally rate it. Anyway the positive of this game is simple: 
 the patch. The patch would boost this game up to about a 4 out of 10, considering the game does 
 not crash nearly as much. If you found this game at a store it would be a gag gift along with other 
 gag gifts such as Fantastic four wii, ET, WWE SVR 08 wii, FBI hostage rescue and Anibus II, although 
 better than all of the ones i just listed. This game does live up to the hype because it dosent 
 have any hype :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 2
Date: May 12, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  After experiencing a couple of great games, you will feel the need to play a bad game. I love bad 
 games. They're bad, but being bad makes them really funny. You'll laugh at the bugs, you'll take funny 
 screenshots & you'll also have a good laugh with your friends about that "epic game I rated 2.0 
.
  
  I didn't hear about Big Rigs untill last year. A 1.0 rated game at Gamespot, 0.3 Critic Rating 
 ,& a very cool video review by Alex Navarro. Than I said: "I must get this game, no matter what!" 
 .A hard task to do indeed, but with the help of God, I had it in my HDD by Easter! I was so happy, as 
 if I had GTA IV for the PC or something like that. I installed it & played it. Wow!
  
  There's no career, there are no tournaments, only some kind of quick races. You'll have to choose 
 from a huge variety of trucks (4) & an amazing number of tracks (5) .OK, than there's a huge loading 
 time, dunno why, but there is one. After that the fun begins...
  The graphics are not really bad, knowing that it's a game from the end of 2003. Decent textures, but 
 nothing special. Well, you're there at the start line, along another truck. The race begins... I start 
 to go, but I don't see where my opponent is... oh well... It seems that I've got to pass trough some 
 checkpoints, than arrive at the start line (circuit tracks) to pass the race. Now, the truck controls 
 are awful, but you will get used to them. I prefer the second truck, which is blue, not that it goes 
 faster or has better handling, but because it's bigger,& it looks like my neighbor (really) .Getting 
 back to the track, the awesome thing is that you can go EVERYWHERE. If you want to take a shortcut 
 to the next checkpoint, you can go ontop of the mountains... it doesn't slow you down & it's sooooooo 
 fun! You can also pass trough  everything, because there's no constant 
 material in the game. I was surprised, when completing the circuit, that my opponent was still at 
 the start line, not having moved a bit! So no AI, that's cool. You Are Winner! Yay!
  Next I decide to try another track. The same huge load time & than... You Are Winner! What? I haven't 
 even started the race! Damn.
  You have to exit & enter the game again after every race. Well, I had a great experience when crossing 
 a bridge in one of the tracks, by going trough it & trough UNDER it!!! Oh,& it happens from time 
 to time to get lost in a black & white dimension, the truck goes 499 km/h & it jumps from the bottom 
 to the top of the screen,& in reverse. After a while of flying, you'll eventually win the race.
 
  One track doesn't work. There is really no sound in this game. What can be more fun? So my rating 
 cathegories are:
  
  Graphics:5
  Sound:0
  Gameplay:-10
  Multiplayer: what's that?
  Impression:10
  
  So that's 5-10+10=5 , 5:4=1.25 ,so a fair 1.3 ... But WAIT,& see the breathtaking 
 event!!!
  
  Patch contents:-one annoying sound that sound like my uncle when he's sleeping
  -the track that 
 didn't work is repaired, but it is the same with another already existing track
  -amazing AI that makes the opponent go about 10 metres before stopping 
  -some other outstanding 
 content that is too well hidden to be discovered
  
  So, the new verdict:
  
  Graphics:5
  Sound:1
  Gameplay:-8
  Impression:10
  
  Oh my God, a 2.0 .Enjoy! A trully unique 
 game, that you will not see too often! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  You don't have to even play Big Rigs to know that it's the worst game ever. I don't even know what 
 your objective is, if you even have one, that is. You're in a truck driving around some open-looking 
 world when suddenly your mind almost explodes because of how bad this is. You want to go play something 
 nice like Super Smash Bros. Brawl or Super Mario Galaxy for awhile to wash away the badness in 
 what you just saw. The graphics are bad, the gameplay is bad (if there even is any gameplay) and 
 you can't even crash into anything, you just go right through everything until you find yourself 
 floating off somewhere in, well... nowhere. That said, Big Rigs is the worst game ever, a game 
 that could likely be played by a 10-year-old computer and still look and play the same. Unfortunately, 
 GameSpot is nice enough to not let you rate games below a 1/10, but this game deserves no more 
 than .01/10 points on the 10-point scale. Why did I waste my perfectly good 5 minutes to write 
 this review on a game you already know to be the worst game ever? The world may never know... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disco_inferno22
Rating: 1
Date: May 6, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  A game that you pay MONEY for and gives you nothing in return (except for maybe a headache and 
 feeling of retardation for buying such a terrible game) And if i could give this game any lower 
 of a score than 1.0 i would. well the fact that i hat semis like no other might have helped it 
 get this low terrible score.
  
  Time for the stats
  (notice im going to put negative numbers)
  Controls: -9
  Value: -10
  sound: 0 huh what are 
 you talking about? i dont hear anything!
  tilt: 0 i dont know what this is so im gonna give it a zero
  graphics: 1 , only because its not 
 hand drawn by a two year old or something
  Overall: -9
  
  so if you think about it this is the worst possible game money can buy, im surprised anyone bought 
 it
  
  (i got it as a gift)
  
  how about this NO SEMI TRUCK GAMES, THEY SUCK BIGTIME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbgun12shot
Rating: 1
Date: May 3, 2008 12:50 am PT
Review:  I download this game off of utorrent, I just had to see what it was really like to play this game. 
 It was truely every bit as bad as I have read, and when you are really playing it and not just 
 reading about it or watching a video review, it seems even worse. To think that this game use to 
 even be a budget title... if you ask me the makers of this game were thiefs. Thiefs and nothing 
 more.
  Even when patched, your oppenent may move, but actually stops before the finish line. Incredible... 
 Your truck has sound now, but doesn't even shift, and sounds terrible, it is a cheap loop. The 
 graphics, visually, look very similar to an older game I use to play called Delta Force Land Warrior. 
 Which for Delta Force Land Warrior's time, it was low average in graphics. And big rigs is a newer 
 game. I am trying to find something good to say about it here. Well... hmm. I can't really find 
 anything good here. Well, when you steer your wheels turn, I was genuinly suprised to notice that. 
 The wheels also rotate when you move... The brake lights even get brighter when you brake! I guess 
 that is about all the good I can say about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thermophile118
Rating: 1
Date: May 2, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  This game is not worth anyones time, all copies of this game should be burned on sight, as well 
 as all people involved in making this piece of crap. With no gameplay, terrible graphics, pathetic 
 AI that will not move even if you try to make them, no hit detection, no solid objects (minus mountains) , 
 the ability to drive off the side of the game into absolute nothingness, the ability to drive faster 
 than the speed of light in reverse and stop on a dime as soon as you let go of the gas, the ability 
 to drive on the side of a mountain and not go tumbling off, and even bad grammar (you're winner) , 
 and even more, the only thing great about this game is the thought that there are no games that 
 could POSSIBLY get any worse than this (but lets not give the company any ideas, if there's anybody 
 left of this company that is) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hl20302
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 2, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Ah, Big Rigs... one of the worst video games of all time. This game is so bad that it will make 
 you call Chuck Norris and tell him to break your computer. 
  
  Storyline: * 1/10
  Gameplay: * 1/10
  Graphics: * 1/10
  Sound: * 1/10
  Lasting Appeal: * 1/10
  
  THE GOOD:
 
  You can explore around the whole level.
  
  THE BAD:
  Controls, A lot of bugs, No music, AI can't move at all (Unless you have the latest patch) , Vehicles 
 sound like a Robot puking, You can go through scenery, You're Winner.
  
  STORYLINE:
  Yeah, since when Big Rigs have a storyline.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  It's simple, race your Big Rig 
 against a stupid opponent with his Big Rig and beat him to the finish line so you get the almight 
 letters: You're Winner. Wow. 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Horrible, that's all i can say. The graphics are so bad that even Wolfienstein 3D looks better 
 than this. The scenery is ugly, the mountains look more like hills, the textures look more in a 
 late 90s game (Or worse) instead of a 2003 game. It's just bad.
  
  SOUND:
  Well, first of all: Theres no background music at all and the trucks engine sound like a robot 
 puking. Enough said.
  
  IS THE GAME WORTH RENTING OR BUYING:
  Ugh, after the review, this game is definitely the worse video game in the world (Besides ET for 
 the Atari 2600) and doesn't deserve to be on the shelves... you're winner.
  
  SCORE FOR THIS GAME:
  My score for this game is:
  
  1.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJF00P
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  This Game is the greatest piece of artwork ever created. The second I opened the box and installed 
 it on my computer, I entered the world of paradise. The graphics were amazing. I think they now 
 call it DX18 graphics. I could swear I was truly driving a Big Rig. The sound was heaven. It was 
 like the greatest symphony I have ever heard. I truly think the guy listed in the credits for sound 
 is one of the greatest geniuses ever born. Gameplay was truly the best though. Such a variety of 
 courses and so little bugs. They must have spent months creating this game! The buildings just 
 came crashing down as your Big Rig goes right through it. It the actual point of the game (even 
 if I currently don't know what it is) is so EPIC that not even gods who created the universe could 
 compare o the gods who created this game.
  
  What I am really saying is, If you want the greatest pleasure in your life, get this game. Maybe 
 even go n reverse and spin around for a few hours. Trust me, you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiccupski
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Simply one of the greatest digital experiences, nay, experiences PERIOD that I have ever experienced. 
 Graphics jump out at you from the screen and hold your eyeballs in their grip. You'll dive out 
 of your chair in response to your Rig nearly crashing into a tree or building, it's so realistic! 
 Of course, the game gives you the avant-garde experience of passing THROUGH said obstacles. The 
 musical score is a tremendously wonderful rendition of beethovens ninth, and brings tears to the 
 eyes. The physics are amazing! You can do things you would never dream of being able to do, such 
 as travelling at the speed of light, then instantly stopping with the touch of a button. Stellar 
 Stone has crafted this vision for us, to show us what a perfect world would be. I can only hope 
 that one day, mankind will find a way to make Stellar's visions work in real life. Play the game, 
 and you'll be happy. I know I was! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darklaer
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 11, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  Refer to my  is a 1.0 game, and it's overrated. (I highly suspect 
 they would've given it 0.0 if they could.) This is the junkiest, worst, most loserish game ever made 
 it's not funny. (Actually it is.) I sat down at my friend's computer, and before the game had lived 
 for ten seconds, I quit it, thankfully. I just saw that the cars weren't moving at all. Then, I smashed 
 into a wall. Thankfully, owing to the developer's proness, I went through. Then I got up, quit the game, and 
 told my friend to sell it, before too much people heard how bad it was.
  Rating:
  0.0
  'Doesn't qualify as entertainment/Not worthy to be called a game'
  It was very hard to deal with 
 how unashamebly bad this CD is. My head still rings with the shock that this  
 could be so BAD!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  This company will have their record forever tarnished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo_zim
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  This is a very bad game and one could argue that this isn't even a game. There is no AI there is 
 no anything it is just complete trash. It is in running for the worst game of all time. The game 
 play isn't even the worst things about the game the graphics were. The graphics were choppy and 
 everything was jagged and badly done and the textures were really bad. Granted i never played it 
 but from hearing about it and seeing videos i can make a very good assumption and that is that 
 it is bad. Although if you are not a big fan of challenges than this is the game for you, otherwise 
 get any other game on the planet. I give this game a whopping 1 out of 10. If i was going to rank 
 this game there is no way that i would make a mistake because it is just that bad and doesn't deserve 
 anything more than a 1. That is why i checked and double checked to make sure that i had it at 
 a 1. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazytarikgamer
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 15, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below.
  
  ( this game isn't even 100 words worth it )
  
  
  Review
  
  this game is just stupid,, i mean the creators should be banned from the 
 gaming industry, i would be a shamed if i was the director. This game is created in 10 min there 
 is more glitches than graphics, but they did a great job with the bridge (makes me love the game, 
 and give it a 2 !!!
  actually i can't wait for the sequel to come
  
  BIG RIGS 2 OFF ROAD GLITCH TOURNAMENT (with a bonus bridge)
  
  
  **** this game 2.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Komania
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  Big Rigs Over the Road Racing is so amazing and WINNER that I can not waste any more time writing 
 this review. That's because the graphics are too good to be true and the music makes all music 
 in the world put together times infinity seem like crap. The gameplay is so hard that it takes 
 years to practice so you can defeat the pesky and persistant AI and avoid the Ultimate Traffic 
 Stopper: The Police Road Block. I am already starting to loser my WINNERness because I am wasting 
 my time writting a review for the best game ever made when I should be playing this  
 game. So go BUY THIS GAME NOW! It might be hard to find because it is so WINNER and perfect that 
 everybody wants it. It puts every simgle game t o shame. It's better, and more WINNER than every 
 game out there put together times infinity infinity times! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokerules123
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 12, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  lol. Don't buy! This is easily the s******** truck game. I mean, this game is horribily glitched. 
 You have a 100% chance that the game will crash. It has no clipping, which means that you can drive 
 through everything. EVEN OUT OF THE MAP! You need to put on your own music since THERE ISN'T ANY 
 OF ITS OWN MUSIC! The CPU never moves, unless you get the patch. Oh, & you gotta love this! When 
 you win OR lose, it says "YOU'RE WINNER!"lol. It should say "YOU WIN!". You can reverse really 
 fast & up to a gazillion MPH. This game is really bad! Infact, if you look up the word bad in the 
 dictionary, you will see this game. Be afraid.
  GameSpot needs to make it so you can now rate games 0.0 & 0.5, because this game sucks ass!
  
 
  Good:
  NOTHING
  lol at the "YOU'RE WINNER!" thing
  Bad:
  EVERYTHING
  Too many glitches
  No music
  All the other stuff this game. 
  P. S. On the box art of the 
 game, there is a police car. However, this is a big stinking lie, as there are indeed NO police 
 cars chasing you in the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimacabre
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  This game is famous for being ALMOST as bad as the game Kane and Lynch. Incase you didn't know, 
 Kane and Lynch is considered to be the worst game in known history.
  
  
  Alot of people buy this game and expect it to be a really horrible game, and it is! But most people 
 are happy to see that the game actually isn't as bad as Kane and Lynch.
  
  The game has alof of bugs. But not as many as Kane and Lynch!
  
  The game has really bad graphics. 
 Still it looks a bit sharper then Kane and Lynch.
  
  The story is actually way better then the story in Kane and Lynch!
  
  Soundtrack is way better 
 then Kane and Lynch.
  
  All in all, this game is much much better then Kane and Lynch. It's still one of the worst games 
 ever created.
  
  So if you're gonna play this game, be preperad, it might be almost as bad as Kane and Lynch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kid_ranqe
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  this game sucks, there is nothing good to say about it only that i couldn't play this game for 
 5 minutes it is a sad and terrible game the most in history!!!
  
  
  First of all the graphics of this game sucks, another thing is this game has no music at all which 
 easily makes the game even more boring. 
  
  Another thing is you can drive though anything without losing speed at all you can also reverse 
 in perfect donuts at "infinity" miles per hour, gosh that is so unrealistic. Also if you drive 
 our of the map you'll end up flying around
  
  Anyways THIS GAME CRASHES ALLOT!!! so no matter what you will be ending up crashing at times. Last 
 but not least NO MATTER IF YOU COME LAST OR FIRST PLACE IN THE RACE IT WILL SAY YOU HAVE WON THE 
 GAME...! "you're winner!" 
  
  
  
  So if you try to get this game you need medical attention fast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miisterr
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 26, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  i went to a cousin house.. he had this game.. he told me her little sister got it like 2 years 
 ago for christmas.. and she hated christmas from that day on
  
  if you dare to play this game just have in mind you may get soooooooo dissapointed, stressed, sad, 
 pittyful, desperate and many other bad feelings.. that you will probably never going to eat again 
 in your life-
  
  stores should pay you to have this game.. its not even worth it playing if they pay you 20 bucks.. 
 30- nope 40$- if your stupid enough, 50$- well maybe-,
  60%- most people would (i dont recomend it) , 70%- ok, ok thats fair enough maybe you should take 
 the risk and play this game for no more than 10 seconds if you get payed 70 bucks.. no less than 
 that!!!
  
  if i had two options of survival
  1.- crossing a endless forest full of killer dinosours, giant lions, millions and millions of toxic 
 bees, naked, and with the forest burning (all the animals are invlunerable to fire) .. and after 
 crossing the forest going through a desert full of hanna montana clones that are trying to rape 
 you with carrots, and in that dessert anything bad and scary you can imagine appears out of nowhere 
 and tryies to kill you or something
  2.- or playing this game for 10 minutes nonstop..
  
  i would choose option number 1.- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 21, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  I have seen a lot of bad games in my life time, never one this broken, messed up, or ****ed up. 
 How can you get anywhere without seeing one messed up things? Maybe kids would get some entertainment 
 out of this game, SOME. But most everyone would this game. This game is not a winner. The controls 
 are messed up, the gameplay is messed up, the grapgics are ****ed up. This game sucks. Bottom line, 
 don't get it. The chance this game has of success is its price, which I dont know, OR CARE, what 
 it is. PLEASE, do not get this game. I can't stress this enough.
  
  If you are planning on getting a truck racing game, then I encourage you, as racing is fun and 
 racing with trucks is an enjoyment. BUT RACING WITH TRUCKS IN THIS GAME IS NOT ONLY A WASTE OF 
 TIME BUT A WASTE OF MONEY AND A WASTE OF YOUR LIFE. PLUS, DO NOT REVIEW THIS GAME AND GIVE IT A 
 10. ANYONE WHO GIVES THIS GAME A 10 NOT ONLY NEEDS A LIFE BUT NEEDS TO KNOW THE MEANING OF 10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuessWutUrEmo
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  It was hard not to be completely impressed when the first images and videos of Big Rigs appeared 
 about several years ago. Scenes of lush jungles and towering alien war rigs looked light-years 
 beyond what seemed possible. Of course, the two questions that revolved around Big Rigs since its 
 announcement were whether it would deliver on those visuals and whether it would deliver a game 
 worthy of those fancy graphics. It turns out that the answer to both those questions is a resounding 
 yes. In fact, it was just the beginning from this studio. With its sophomore effort, Big Rigs has 
 managed to deliver an incredibly advanced and exciting racer that practically rewrites the rules 
 for the entire genre. 
  
  
  
  
  br / 
  Big Rigs is a rig racer game where you deliver cargo and try to avoid the fuzz.. Clad in high-tech 
 nanorigs capable of boosting your speed.
  Like Most racing games, the first half of big rigs is essentially a "sandbox" game where you're 
 put in the middle of incredibly large levels and tasked with delivering stuff. How you get the 
 job done is pretty much entirely up to you, which is part of the brilliance of the game's design. 
 For instance, the environments are big enough to give you a wide range of latitude. Do you have 
 to race to the finish line? You can take a meandering route that avoids police, or try the up-front 
 approach and try to speed your way through, with the danger of cop reinforcements showing up. 
 
  Couple these huge environments with the powers of the nanorigs, and you have a ton more options. 
 Enhanced speed give you an amazing amount of mobility, so you can drive over bridges and not fall 
 through, or drive up against a Police vehicle next to a cliff and push it over the side. In a heartbeat 
 you can switch between different roles, from drunk driver to seemingly unstoppable cargo dealer. 
 It's a game that makes you feel like a superhero. Big rigs rewards smart, fast thinking. 
  
  
  
  
  The drivefights are stunning, as well as challenging, whether you're tackling Police 
 soldiers or your opponent who too is tryin to deliver cargo.
  It helps that the game features a high degree of advanced physics and destructibility in a highly 
 dynamic world. Getting caught in a drivefight in the jungle is a cinematic treat, thanks to the 
 way the tires will chop down trees, while branches sway from impacts. This isn't just a visual 
 effect, either, as falling timber can smash yo rig if it lands on someone. There's all sorts of 
 emergent behavior like that throughout the game, events that spring up completely unintended or 
 unforeseen. 
  Meanwhile, the driving and stopping modeling make this racer feel as if you're handling real rigs. 
 Trying to drive by police can also be quite a treat. The oppenents your racing are encased in armor, 
 so it might some time to drive down, unless you aim for the tires, which usually puts them in the 
 water. At your disposal is a variety of rigs, like Thunderbull and Megaone. One of the neat aspects 
 of the game is that you can fix up your rigs on the fly, adding scopes, silencers, and grenade 
 launchers, provided you've found them. There are trade-offs for each add-on. Silenced Tires let 
 you take down rigs quietly, though they reduce the damage your rig does, meaning you've got to 
 make every attack count. Or flashlights mounted on your rigs might help you out in dark levels. 
 
  
  
  
  
  Big Rigs: OVer THE ROAD RACING! gives you all of these toys and ratchets the action higher and 
 higher the deeper you get into it. The first level of the game introduces you to the sandbox driving 
 and the nanorig. From then on, the races become larger and more intense as the action escalates. 
 You'll take part in a chaotic races on a harbor; and from there the game accelerates. Next is a 
 wild rig race in a tropical mountain valley. There's a sheer rush as your rig plows through vegetation 
 and knocks down trees . Meanwhile, the vehicle explosions are convincing, right down to the way 
 rubber cooks off and sends spirals of smoke outward. It's visual poetry of destruction. You're 
 not confined to rig tank the entire time, either. You can jump out at any time and use your face 
 and tire feet to beat ypur oppenent. When they're beaten you get a nice YOU'RE WINNER!. 
  Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing in the end feels like a game that everyone should have and the ones 
 who dont have it are demons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abstract_Choas
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Pretty much says it all, so amazingly horribly bad that it is awesome! Anything you can think of 
 you can drive through it; buildings, up cliffs, through the bottom of bridges ANYTHING. No physics 
 engine at all, you can infinitely speed up in reverse, even when turning. It really is quite a 
 unique experience that everyone needs to try. Never really thought a game could be so incredibly 
 bad that it makes it so much fun, and just plain funny. If you have not seen the gamespot video 
 review I highly recommend watching this masterpiece in action. Its hard to decide if the developers 
 meant for it to be good at all, or just wanted to see if they could possibly make the worse game 
 ever created...
  
  This is a surprisingly deep, life changing experience that really does make you appreciate the 
 quality games we have available to us. Everyone must play this before they die! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -TheSecondSign-
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Big Rigs is the greatest game of it's generation, and ever generation. It's better than watching 
 Chuck Norris ride a flying dinosaur into battle. It's better than the House of the Dead movie. 
 It's better than anything in the universe.
  
  The second you start up the game, your mind is assaulted by the greatest music in gaming history. 
 It only gets better when you pick your supertruck, one of four, and start racing. Your enemy is 
 so scared of your awesomeness, it doesn't even move. It just sits at the starting line, knowing 
 how awesome you are, paralyzed with fear, which is why the AI is so awesome.
  
  Big Rigs has the greatest graphics ever. If you disagree, then you're a Communist. Big Rigs looks 
 so real, it looks realer than real life. That's not even possible, but Big Rigs is that awesome. 
 Those chumps at Bioware and Nintendo could learn something from Stellar Stone. Stellar Stone did 
 such a good job with the graphics, your breaklights just magically detach themselves from your 
 car, not that it matters, because the physics in the game are so amazing you can pass through everything, 
 even bridges, or go straight off the map. That's awesome
  
  Don't even get me started on the gameplay, as it is so awesome, it is impossible for the human 
 mind to comprehend. You can drive fast going forward, and at speeds exceeding those of any real 
 car ever made when going in reverse. You can drive straight through anything and even go off the 
 map! Talk about AMAZING.
  
  Everyone should play and own Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing, to learn what a real game should be! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garey017
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  Is this game a 'homebrew'? No!!!!!!!!! Hard to believe, I know. It's hard to believe a game like 
 this wasn't made by some amateur 12 year old in his parent's basement. But this game is so insanely 
 bad, that it's actually entertaining, and pretty hilarious. Just watch any of the reviews on youtube 
 for a good laugh. To sum it up, you're racing a truck. You're not really racing AGAINST anyone 
 though, because you're competitor is often non-existent. When it is there, you can literally drive 
 right through it. You also drive through bridges instead of over them. But, this game will push 
 your system to the limits. But in a bad way. If you drive in reverse, you're "rig" will constantly 
 pick up speed, until it goes so fast that it crashes the whole game. By that time, I'm pretty sure 
 you'll be happy it's over anyway. I believe this game is the worst game of all time. I don't know 
 if anyone actually finished this game. I don't even know if it's possible. It's barely possible 
 to even play the game. It's a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splinter_girl88
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 18, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  In my honest opinion, GS is being too nice, even if the lowest score here on GS is 1 :P It should 
 have gotten a solid 0! xD The fact that this game actually was released must have been a joke from 
 the creators, cuz I can't see the reason why someone would release a game this unfinished. Oh well, 
 at least you don't have to worry about crashing into houses or stuff like that. Actually you don't 
 have to worry about anything. Least of all the opponent. He's nice enough to let you win every 
 single race. And if you want a change in graphics, you can just drive all the way over to where 
 there's nothing at all, and look at the nice gray nothingness, and just keep on driving. And while 
 you're there, you can try to think of reasons why the creators released such a "good" game... Lol!
 
  Difficulty: there's no difficulty at all here. Even a newborn baby could play this.
  Time spent playing: Something like 10 mins, and I've already wasted waaaay too much time of my 
 life on this so-called game
  Gameplay: 0
  Graphics: 0
  Sound: Um, there's hardly any sound at all, if not no sound, so 0!
  Value: 0, obviously
  Tilt: 
 Nothing else than a 0
  Overall rating: A big fat ZERO!
  If you value your life, you'll steer away from this game this instant! Don't come and say I didn't 
 warn you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_horny
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 15, 2008 2:42 am PT
Review:  Big Rigs...
  
  Man, when I played this game, I thought I bought it at the stationary store. I would've rather 
 bought a pencil if I knew this game sucked this much. First, I would try racing, and I was screaming 
 my head off when I was about to crash into a house. But... I went through. I was laughing, and I 
 ACTUALLY logged off and on again since I thought this was a hack or something. But it wasn't I 
 went through walls and mountains agin and again. And worst, I can speed up real fast that i could 
 actually reach the goal in like, 30 seconds, since I could go through anything. I would've gone 
 to Gamestop again and choke the manager for my money back. Oh, I wish I could play Halo or Counter-Strike 
 now, since this review is really killing me to write, but I'm sacrificing myself to write it. Just 
 like Paul Mooney says, Wayne Brady makes Dave Chappelle look like... Malcolm X", I would say, 
 "Halo 3 makes Starcraft look like Big Rigs". I don't even feel like talking about this game. Overall, 
 it sucked! Period.
  
  -James Ovi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prsman
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 29, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  
  
  I don't think this game was ever even finished before it got a $29.99 price tag slapped on it. 
 Seriously. After playing this, you'll want to gorge your eyes out with a ice-cream scoop spoon and 
 male your I's to the Pentagon. You drive threw buildings, fall threw bridges, your able to drive 
 up 90 degree hills and cliffs, and after the cliffs is a endless gray void. Plus, the AI are "Mentally 
 Retarded or Dead" and sit still. And wen you win, you get a trophy that looks like a 2-year old maid 
 it."You're Winner!" is what it says. And theres no cops, but the box says there are cops. Wen you 
 drive on hills, your tale-lites float like 3-feet to the side of your "Crap-Box-On-Wheels". O, and 
 if you tern wile going in reverse, your "Crap-Box-On-Wheels" turns in place traveling like 
  333 mph in place. I advise you NOT TO GET THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!! If you do, you will have "Suicidal 
 Urges". 
  
  
  SUICIDAL 
  Or if I was the 
 2-year old who made this game...
  SOOISIDEEL ERJESESESES!!!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_am_game99
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 14, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  There is not much to say about this game. apart from horrible, terrible and sad. After playing 
 this game you will discover that it is proberly the worst game in history.
  
  Do not by this game- do not even think about buying it- do not even look at it if you have seen 
 it at a shop. Its so bad that chances are it wont be at any shop.
  
  The back of the box says you get chased by the police, yet that is a load of crap. You will be 
 lucky to even see a police car in this game. The worst part about this game is that it is in a 
 permanent 'no clip' mode meaning you can drive through and up anything. You can even drive in the 
 areas which are just grey- as in out of the area. It might seen cool, but i tell you, its not.
 
  
  I think we'ver found gamespot worst and lowest rated game. The only reason you should want to buy 
 it is because you want a laugh or you just want to have a look at some of the worst 'up to date' 
 graphics ever. Horrible. Terrible. Disaterious. 0. That is all this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MC-Daniel
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 14, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  I myself have never played this game, and I hope I never do. But if you watch and listen to any 
 one of the many gameplay movies or video reviews, you will see for yourself why it got a score 
 of 1.
  
  I would ussually start by commenting on the main gameplay of the game I am reviewing, but for Big 
 Rigs: Over the Road Racing, I can't. This is becuase there isnt any. There is no coherent goal, 
 no task to complete, no other truck to race against, no building or any other obsticle can stop 
 you, there are no police trying to chase or catch you, you don't have any cargo and you cant even 
 go over a freaking bridge! Never mind the conflict on whether this is a racing game or not, I don't 
 think it can even be called a game! There are absolutly no physics in this game at all. You can 
 go infinitly fast in any direction, you can go from 0-60 in a couple seconds, you cannot tip, swivel 
 or fishtail. You can go up 90 degree angles! Even the controls in this so called "game" are both 
 primitive and lousy. You use the arrow keys, not WASD, not W or UP arrow with the mouse for turning, 
 nothing, just arrow keys. The only thing in this game that can romotely be referred to as gameplay 
 is the fact you can move. There is no little, nay, nothing here at all to qualify it as anything 
 more than a couple hours work by a sadistic madman. 
  
  The graphics in this game are so terrible, if you look at them, you will get cancer, then proceed 
 to gouge your eyes out with metal rods. Then pour salt and acid into the sockets and shove a flaming 
 sword down your throat, then take what is left and crawl out onto a street to die. In the options 
 menu, you only have two texture options, LOW and NORMAL. Whatever you do, they will always suck. 
 There are some other major artistic (if you can call it that) flaws, such as the tail lights are 
 floating, and everything is so simplistic that I doubt any efort went into them at all.
  
  So little effort and time went into this, that there are multiple effors that don't even fall into 
 gaming catagorys! One of the most well known is the misspelling "YOU'RE WINNER!". Some others are 
 the crashing of the game if you try and load the fourth map. The lack of any AI at all, and nothing 
 that can support the truck except the bottom floor.
  
  Taking all things into consideration, you should never touch this game, or pay any money for it, 
 EVER, unless just to laugh at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEATHKILLER-93
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I HATE this game. It sucks!!! Everything is horrible. The graphics, the gameplay, EVERYTHING! All 
 these other people don't know what they're talking about. It's BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD. I can't even describe it from being anything but BAD. 
 The AI won't even race you. There is no cargo, the graphics are horrible, you go right through 
 houses and bridges, you ride straight up mountains, it's just horrible. These other people who 
 say the game is like this on purpose don't know what their talking about. The truck isn't freezing 
 it's opponent or trying to bend the fabric of reality. This game just sucks. By the way, the police 
 aren't chasing you like the back of the box says and you can't even ride in the final world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gahzridian
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Good games are released all the time, and some are better than others. This is nothing new. However, 
 it really takes a special kind of great to be considered one of the best games ever made. So when 
 this special kind of great makes an appearance, it's truly something to behold. Big Rigs: Over 
 the Road Racing is one of those rare pieces of work. Not only is it almost completely well-done 
 and blatantly finished in nearly every way, but even if it weren't, there's so much of an actual 
 game to be found here that it would still be great. Big Rigs is a game so astoundingly good that 
 it manages to transcend nearly every boundary put forth by some of gaming's absolute best of the 
 best and easily makes it into that dubiously extraordinary category of being one of the greatest 
 games ever published.
  
  Big Rigs' first and coolest features lie in its gameplay. Specifically, there is lots.
  
  In 
 theory, Big Rigs is supposed to be a racing game based on big trucks that speed through various 
 US trucking routes in some kind of effort to deliver cargo before the competition gets there first -- or 
 else the truck gets busted by the law. At least, this is what the back of the game's box would 
 have you believe. Let us make it very clear that these statements are all true. There is a coherent 
 goal in Big Rigs. There is cargo to be delivered. There are police chases. In fact, there really 
 is much in the game.
  
  The basic idea in the actual game is that you pick one from four vaguely different trucks and then 
 one from five vaguely different levels. You then compete against another truck in a simple checkpoint 
 race. That's it. Big Rigs gets this concept right. The supposedly computer-controlled truck you're 
 supposed to be racing against in the game actually moves. It has purpose in the game. This is to 
 say, actually, that all the game's races have a purpose because there's a competition and a time 
 limit. There is absolutely a point in playing Big Rigs.
  
  But let's assume for a moment that the AI trucks didn't actually work, and you couldn't get a race 
 going. Even if this were the case, the game still would be worth playing in the slightest. Big 
 Rigs' controls essentially involve hitting the arrow keys of the keyboard in the desired direction. 
 The game provides much support for peripheral controllers of any kind, and there is even an option 
 to edit the default keyboard controls in any manner. Your truck also handles pretty superbly. There 
 are physics here. You accelerate quickly enough to even be minutely realistic.
  
  Of course, the controls wouldn't matter if you didn't have to worry about running into things or 
 crashing your truck, which, actually, is a obstacle. You see, you can't clip your truck right through 
 every object on a race course in Big Rigs, from the biggest of houses and walls, right down to 
 the smallest of lampposts. Furthermore, bridges evidently actually exist, despite the fact that 
 you can see them -- driving over any of them results in you sinking right through them. It is also 
 not quite possible to simply drive right off of the literal end of a level when playing. Considering 
 the fact that you can't drive over these tall, seemingly insurmountable mountains (at least, insurmountable 
 for an actual diesel-powered truck) , and there are level boundaries, eventually you can't just 
 drive off into literal nothingness and can hang out there as long as you please.
  
  The graphical perfections don't stop there, either. Big Rigs is easily one of the best-looking 
 PC games released in years. The truck models are amazingly great, with incredibly near-perfect-looking 
 designs and brake lights that actually are connected to the truck models. The four different environments 
 all look good, too, what with their incredible-looking textures, their cool and noteworthy set 
 pieces, and their aforementioned clipping perfection. Also, the reason we state that there are 
 only four environments in the game, instead of the five we previously cited, is because we made 
 a typo. As for the game's sound design, there are literally over 9000 sound effects in Big Rigs.
 
  
  Just how good is Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing? It's as good as your mind will allow you to comprehend. 
 It is so amazingly good that even its budget price tag seems like a bank error in your favor. The 
 game's readme file does assert that the game was thoroughly tested on various PCs, and the end 
 result seems to prove that's true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: choffy31
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply flawless. Every aspect is carved to eat out your heart, soul, and mind. With 
 enthralling care to detail, sharp textures, and vivid animation (you can practically lick the smoke 
 coming from your "big puppy's" exhaust pipe) .
  
  But this game isn't about its mind-blowing graphics that surpass even current generation (Gears 
 of War? Psssssshhh. Check out this field of perspective - THROUGH A GIANT, FULLY AMERICAN, TRUCK) . 
 No. At heart, Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is defined through its incredible gameplay. When you 
 back up, YOU FEEL LIKE YOU ENTER A LEVEL OF TRUCK RACING NO OTHER GAME HAS BEEN ABLE TO EVEN COME 
 CLOSE TO!
  
  Oh and here's what caught my attention the most about this game: the AI. You know how games like 
 the James Bond series are meticulously similar to the incredible, impossible feats of the movies? 
 Well Big Rigs simplifies matters, and certainly makes you feel like "you're winner!"
  
  In short, there is no way to sum up the level of quality this game brings in just one review. You 
 will have to witness it for yourself. As God put it when he played Big Rigs, "Holy ****!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamereaper999
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  if you want your conscience to be removed from you, beaten with a steel pipe, skinned, decapitated, 
 burned, slashed repeatedly, bathed in acid, and then given back to you, then by all means play 
 Big Rigs: over the road racing. this game is so awful there is no word a human can utter capable 
 of describing it. this game makes getting your intestines rippied out and being forced to eat them 
 look fun.
  
  
  lets start with the cover, on the back it tell you that you race with other trucks to deliver cargo 
 on time and that the the loser gets busted by the cops. this is all lies. now you're thinking, 
 "at least you race a car". nope. instead the other car sits at the start point. he NEVER moves, 
 so assuming you could race, you'd have quite a time, the controls are terrible but your truck can 
 accelerate into infinity, i've seen people go in circles to speeds up to 30,000 mph and when you 
 let go of the acceleration, the truck stops on a dime. this would be helpful in case your about 
 to hit a building, except for the fact that you pass through a building as if it doesn't exist, 
 from a house to a street light. bridges are NONEXISTENT as well. your DIESEL TRUCK can also go 
 top speed over a 90 degree moutain then it will go out of bounds and you can hang out there as 
 long as you please. the graphics arent very great either. after seeing the graphics i wanted to 
 gouge my eyes out with white hot pliers. the brakelights FLOAT of the truck. so i try to see if 
 i can fix any of these problems, oh look a patch! i install the patch and dear god, the other truck 
 is moving! so im racing along and i pass RIGHT THROUGH the other truck. then a few feet from the 
 finish line. apparently i can fix all this by going to stellarstone. com. i do that and i get some 
 generic search engine. when i try to play to final track the game crashes EVERY SINGLE TIME. to 
 top it all off when you win it says "you're winner" couldn't the developers at least do a spell 
 check!
  
  
  this game was sent by god to punish sinners, but it fell into other peoples hands as well. this 
 game shatters moutains and brings oceans to boil. this game is so awful it could bring the devil 
 to his knees. please for the love of god, if you have this game, break it in half! if you dont 
 DO NOT BUY IT!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan192001
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 4, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Through the large sludge of gaming products classified within the genre of racing, few are as unique 
 and as intriguing as Big Rigs: Over The Road Racing. With a simplistic yet deep control system, 
 challenging AI opponents and groundbreaking level design, Big Rigs paves the way for $10 bargain 
 bin games to come. This game has been sorely dismissed by gaming critics worldwide (not at all 
 surprising, due to the flawed industry it is) . But they have clearly missed a vital fact: the fact 
 that no other game offers the experience of Big Rigs. 
  
  Within the so-called "flaws" of its apocalyptic control system and the Quasimodo-esque beauty of 
 its physics, there underlies deep political commentary and philosophical questionings. The "bug" 
 of the infinitely accelarating reversing clearly represents the developer's fears of a democratic 
 downfall; infinately spiralling into oblivion. The opponent's refusal to compete questions the 
 very meaning of competition; is it neccessary to compete to win? This is what Big Rigs is about; 
 redefining competition, redefining the very essence of social thinking.
  
  This is a game that will be remembered and adored in 100 years; taught by scholars to students 
 in universities and highly respected by video game historians. This is the video game industry's 
 Jackson Pollock and Trout Mask Replica; on a superficial level it appears effortless trash, but 
 requires deeper thought to uncover the aesthetics of the game, and realizes that this is what it 
 is meant to be. Critics salivate over shallow, conventional games like Ocarina of Time, Chrono 
 Trigger and the like, but do not offer the artistic grandeur of this fine game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gooshnads
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing... from the physics, and the graphics that surpass Crysis, to the amazing variety 
 of gameplay.
  
  Let's start with the graphics. These graphics are amazing, it is hard to put into words, but in 
 theory, if you showed this to people back in the day, they would accuse you of witchcraft or sorcery.
 
  
  The sound? Well the music is amazing, but in the idea of "sound" dialogue is one part of sound... 
 but hey, even though there is NO dialogue at all, there ARE words... words like "You're Winner" 
 are astounding. Remember play this game! -.-"
  
  So let's get onto the physics that surpass Crysis. Now I'm in grade 11 right now, and learning 
 physics, and as a person aspiring to be a video game developer, there is nothing more promising 
 than seeing a game that has mastered the science of quantum physics, for all of you who don't know 
 what quantum physics is, let me put it in layman's terms - Teleportation = part of quantum physics, 
 so you might wonder, how does this game have quantum physics? Well trucks going through bridges 
 count as that, then they also have rocket science and apparently "charged" big rigs. The rigs sticking 
 to mountains which only means its either negatively or more positively charged to attract itself 
 like that to the ground, rocket science also plays a part when trucks take off and start flying, 
 just amazing.
  
  Let's get to the real side of this... this game is so much crap that if you put it on a graph, 
 it would curve back to "omfg its kickass" The game is easy in nature but theoretically impossible 
 to play and extremely hard to understand why the hell would someone even put out a game like this, 
 busted graphics, bad grammar (you're winner! ~ yeah more like you're a fool for buying this game!)
 
  
  Warning to EVERYONE - DONT BUY THIS GAME... EVER... unless u want to show your friends how bad it 
 is or send it back to the makers just to say how much their game sucks, but seriously it wont be 
 worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wacko_McSmacko
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 26, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  I got this game from a friend who wanted to get rid of it. I love video games so i was happy to 
 oblige. So I put this piece of s*** into my computer and installed it. I picked a truck, and picked 
 a stage, and got into the game. Little did I know it would make me go insane.
  
  This game is basically pointless. You pick a truck and a stage to start. Then you race a computer 
 competitor. It would be great if he competed. The stupid computer controlled truck just f**king 
 sits there while you drive a horrible truck around a track. Even if he did compete this game would 
 still suck. A patch was later released to "fix" this problem, but i was told your opponent truck 
 stops before it reaches the finish line. But after my first time playing Big Rigs, i would never 
 play it again even if a patch semi-fixed the game. Not to mention the graphics suck so bad i was 
 about to gouge my eyes out and strangle myself with my computer mouse. The "You're a Winner" screen 
 is embedded into my mind as a terrifying memory of the day Big Rigs shattered my soul.
  
  The controls are downright pieces of bulls***. You use the arrow keys to move. That's is. But they 
 are so sensitive you can barely steer the retarded truck. You end up driving into buildings half 
 the game. That brings me to another point. You don't drive into buildings, you drive right through 
 them. As a matter of fact you drive through anything and everything, even through your "competitors" 
 truck. You can drive up enormous mountains, and then fall into a white nothingness, hopelessly 
 float, and then fall right back onto the racetrack sometimes. Or instead of driving up the mountains, 
 you drive right through them, and you fall into black nothingness. They should call this game (if 
 you even call this piece of crap a game) Ghost Truck: Pointless Racing. After about 15 minutes 
 of playing I ran into the bathroom and puked, it was that bad.
  
  So i went back to my friends house later after playing the game for those terrifying 15 minutes. 
 I punched him in his face and he asked "what the f**k was that for?" I showed him the Big Rigs 
 disc, and snapped it in half, and kicked him in the ribs. "Why did you give this game to me?" is 
 asked. He said because it sucked and he didn't want it, and when he tried to return it to the store 
 the store said they didn't accept Big Rigs because it sucked so bad. I threw the snapped disc at 
 him and walked out the door.
  
  Real score for this game: 0
  Real time spent playing: 15 minutes
  Real difficulty: There is no difficulty
  
  Please, don't 
 end up mentally scarred like me, don't play Big Rigs unless you want to vomit your intestines out 
 of your mouth. You will be glad you didn't play it. Believe me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taz1080p
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 25, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  This game is a masterpiece, its as simple as that, the devs who worked on this game with a budget 
 of $15000 have shown that its hard work that pays off, not paying of review sites! 
  
  This game gets a perfect 1.0 because its awesomeness makes every other game seem like poop, especially 
 my other favourite game Kane and Lynch with its amazing reviews. The graphics are wonderful, the 
 draw distance given the level of detail is earth shattering, it goes on for ever and ever. In fact, 
 go off the sides, and you can go on and on, with no limits! Honestly Crysis cant compete, because 
 its draw distance dare we say it goes as high and wide as the heavens! Wow! Now thats talking
 
  
  I ran the game on a SLI 8800 Ultra and it refused to run, simply too good looking. The only problem 
 with it is that sometimes its too hard, like the oponent AI, i mean seriously, it moves so fast 
 and intelligently, you are just gobsmacked and give up. They are so good at their job, Michael 
 Shumacher crys in SHAME! WOW.
  
  The patch that comes with the game makes a perfect game even more perfect, because of the people 
 drooling at the amazing AI, they have decided to slow it down, so that now, it teases you by travelling 
 at 1mph and getting to the finishing line only NOT to do anything. 
  
  Buy this game, and support the needy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toytoper
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 24, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Bad games are released all the time, and some are worse than others. This is nothing new. However, 
 it really takes a special kind of awful to be considered one of the worst games ever made. So when 
 this special kind of awful makes an appearance, it's truly something to behold. Big Rigs: Over 
 the Road Racing is one of those rare pieces of work. Not only is it almost completely broken and 
 blatantly unfinished in nearly every way, but even if it weren't, there's so little of an actual 
 game to be found here that it would still be terrible. Big Rigs is a game so astoundingly bad that 
 it manages to transcend nearly every boundary put forth by some of gaming's absolute worst of the 
 worst and easily makes it into that dubiously extraordinary category of being one of the most atrocious 
 games ever published. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeaLz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is top-notch. It has physics which rival Crysis, visuals which even surpass the visuals 
 in Crysis and most importantly gameplay which is beyond this generation. 
  
  With an all new way of playing such as being able to drive through anything such as scenery, buildings 
 and even bridges it is truly amazing and has taken gameplay to the next level. No longer do developers 
 need to worry about collision detection or any of that other stuff from past generations. Now since 
 costs will come down the prices for games will all drop. Why couldn't Gamespot think of this and 
 give the game a rating it truly deserved?
  
  Sometimes when trucking along in this game, coming first, not because of horrible AI as some call 
 it but because of my 'leet skillz' I wonder is this game truly meant to be a tech demo in disguise. 
 It is just that good.
  
  I cannot wait for the sequel and I hear that it won't even be able to be maxed out on the next-generation 
 hardware such as 9800GTX. So I will be buying a new PC for it sometime next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leafs37
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 20, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Big Rigs is very good at one thing being bad. In the game you can go in reverse at an infinite 
 speed while doing reverse donuts. You can also drive through the scenery (including bridges, trees, 
 builings, etc.) . You can go up on a 90 degree angle while still at max speed. You can also fall 
 off the map and cannot drive back on to the map. The brake lights aren't attached to the actual 
 truck itself. The game will crash your computer a lot. Then there are only 4 trucks to choose from. 
 There is one with a trailer in the picture but when you race it doesn't have it. The A. I. doesn't 
 move and if it does move and it beats you to the finish line you are still claimed a winner (weird) . 
 Threre are only 5 tracks to choose from and one called small town road will crash your computer. 
 People who are thinking of downloading/buying the game, don't. This game is a waste og time and 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtlasVI
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 19, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is the only game in history to receive a rating of 1.0 from Gamespot. com, 
 and I honestly see why. This game was, without a shred of doubt, the worst game I have ever played. 
 I think it will be the worst game I ever play, too. The graphics are pretty much non-existent (the 
 taillights of the trucks actually float off the truck) and the environmental textures are terrible. 
 Speaking of environment, everything in this game you'd expect to be solid doesn't even really exist. 
 Mountains, hills, buildings, bridges; you can just drive through all of them. There's one especially 
 disturbing level with a bridge that you actually fall through whenever to try to drive over it.
 
  
  To top it all off, whenever you win (which is all the time because the game has no AI at all; the 
 enemy truck literally just sits at the start line) the game tells you that, "You are winner". They 
 couldn't even click spell check before distributing this game. Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is 
 a terrible game with no redeeming qualities what so ever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyber_m2
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  YOU'RE WINNER. This game is still popular to this day because everyone can enjoy being a winner. 
 Great for any age-whether you giving to a child or grandparent. Need a self esteem boast? This 
 game is for you. Tired of real world physics? This game is for you.
  Tired of annoying AI that are so hard to win against? This game is for you. Need to keep the kids 
 busy? This game is for you.
  
  Music: Enjoy the music! The music consist of a variety of sound ranges, yet not angsty or too sad. 
 Prepare to be dazed and awed by the cool techno sounds. Even elderly agree the music is not to 
 intense for their ears.
  
  Gameplay: Anyone can adjust to the gameplay. Kids, teens, and adults LOVE the racing experience. 
 Nothing like getting yourself pumped as to race across the terrain. A quote from my online friend, 
 I love it. I am disable but the game makes me feel like I am a racing maniac!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpie_92
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 16, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  This game plays like it is made by a 3 year old!
  I thought ok its only $5 bucks at my local EB so even if its crap i wont be let down but i felt 
 like going back and demanding for my money back! The company who made this doesnt deserve my $5 
 because it feels like they spent $3 on it and i dont want them making a profit!
  
  The problems started at the start of the so called Race when my opponents stayed still at the start 
 line every single race i played. After i ignored it and started racing i thought i was going to 
 crash into a building, instead i went right through it, then i fell through solid ground while 
 i was driving and after that i felt like crashing into a steep mountain but instead i kept driving 
 up it and landed into a grey area! I felt like hunting down whoever made this game and make them 
 apoligise internationally to the whole world and make them give everybody $100 each for wasting 
 everyones time!
  
  DONT BUY THIS GAME UNLESS YOU ARE BUYING IT FOR A QUICK LAUGH!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koopatroopa1015
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 13, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Let's drive cars around. Ahem, I mean trucks! Big Rigs! You'll drive trucks around some awful courses. 
 If you win, you get this stupid message that says "You're Winner!" It's unstable, it's got terrible 
 graphics, and it's a complete waste of time and money. It's undoubtedly one of the most useless 
 and disastrous games - you'll have more fun breaking the disc and using the manual as some random 
 thing such as toilet paper or confetti. And it's a terrible game, only if you call it a game!
 
  
  There are terrible graphics and the game can be a bit unstable sometimes. It's bad, really bad. 
 It is a total waste of time and money. It'll only add to your pile of garbage. After about two 
 minutes you'll get bored of it. It's awful and will never be anything else but awful. Avoid this 
 game. Save your money and time and also your hard drive space for better things. Remember how awful 
 this game is, never get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolmanus
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  Fuhh.... Last time i writed.... I written about "Spawn the eternal". I said it's the worst game 
 i've ever played. This changed today. Today i played a game, what even worse than that game. This 
 game is.... AAAAAAAAAAARRRRRHHHHH!!!!! WHAT IS THIS SON OF A B*TCH? WHAT THE F*CK IS THE F*CKIN 
 F*XKED F*CK!?????????? WTF MAN! WTF! This is a terrible gaaameee!!! AAARRR! These guys... The stellar 
 stone. They're all evil!!! They came to earth to destroy everything what's good in games!!! Now 
 a little about the game: There are no gravity in this game! THERE ARE NO GRAVITY!!!!!!!! What was 
 they thinking?????? Really! What was they thinking??? This game is not even a 1.0 game!!!!! I can 
 drive in the mountans! Is this a spider-car or what??? But there's even more!!! This isn't the 
 end. There are still more of this misrable bugs. If you start the race your opponent will never 
 move! This is serious! Your opponent will just sit and watch!!!! Or if you install the patch, your 
 opponent will start the race too, and he will drive, but he will stop 10 meters before the finish! 
 Unbeleivable! How could they made this game? And i paid for this game!!! People pays for this game!!!! 
 THIS GAME IS A CRIME!!!!!!!!!!!! This is still not enough for you? Allright. Than i tell you more. 
 If you win the race, (and it's impossible to lose, so it won't be hard) the game says: You're Winner. 
 You're winner? YOU'RE WINNER??????!!!!!! AAAAAARRRRH NOOO!!!! There are no word for this game. 
 The worst game i ever played, and the worst game in the whole f*ckin world!
  
  The Graphics, the sounds, the controls, the gameplay are all misrable and terrible so there are 
 only one number: 1.0 ABYSMAL!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicolas00-0g
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  What I can say about this game: THE BEST OF BEING BAD.
  The ridiculous of the ridiculous...
  When I played this game, I would destroy the game's CD, 
 but I didn't do it because it isn't mine : (
  Sound: Ridiculous, Graphics: Ridiculous, etcetera: Ridiculous
  Until NFS: V-Rally is better !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  Who created this game must such be a very, very horrible designer (I can make a better game :)
 
  And I don't understand why some many people gave 10 to this game.
  Want a funny racing game ? Play Road & Track Presents: The Need for Speed.
  Overall: Crappy, 
 Crappy, Crappy, Crappy.
  Because this game is worse than Gamespot :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mintoo2cool
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 8, 2007 2:59 am PT
Review:  First off, What were Stellar Stone LLC thinking and second of all how could Activision agree to 
 produce such a piece of garbage?
  
  I borrowed this from a friend of mine and within 2 hours promptly returned it back to him, to my 
 surprise he offered that I keep the game for myself... hmmm.... I wonder why?
  
  While my friend was trying to convince me to keep the game, I was wondering whether I would get 
 my 2hrs back.
  
  Never before in my life had I had such a terrible experience on the PC. I have played some pretty 
 terrible games but this one is so bad that its incredible, in an utterly negative sense.
  
  There is nothing , and I mean absolutely nothing that is worth experiencing in the game, except 
 if you are into sadomasochism, then you will probably enjoy game because you get to experience 
 pain, and a great deal of it too, in your mind.
  
  This game is like developed by an utter newbie programmer, he did not bother to differentiate between 
 driving on the most rocky terrain and the smoothest highway, it all feels the same. Every track 
 feels the same. Everything is the same, even the outcome of everyrace is the same, "You're Winner", 
 I got so pissed off seeing that again and again on the screen that I was about to break the monitor.
 
  
  However, apart from all these downsides to the game, everything in this world has a purpose. This 
 game can make an great gift to a person whom you really hate.... Think about it..... You can kill 
 him by kindness.... There never was a sweeter way to take revenge! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iamabarrelroll
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This is possibly the best game ever. From the excellent physics and graphics, the perfectly balanced 
 difficulty, the wealth of content, to the excellent gameplay and other great things about this 
 great game. 
  
  The reviews of this game were very very wrong. I don't see how they saw this gaming gem as "trash". 
 They were probably very intoxicated or something, seeing as this is obvious game of the year material.
 
  
  Go out an buy this game. It may be 10$ but it's worth much more. You will be playing this for years 
 to come. The game never unicorning ends, so you can keep playing it. Like Shock said, it's fun 
 to play with a friend on the phone to see how you both are doing and see what you can do different 
 next playthrough.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: de_kumar
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  i mean when compared to newer games like kane and lynch, this just blows them out of the water, 
 it has everything you'll ever want in a game where as newer games i. e. kane and lynch don't offer 
 very much at all. so the moral of the story is of course if you had to choose between kane and 
 lynch and big rig i know i'd rather have big rigs. so there you have, what more could i say beside 
 don't buy kane and lynch buy this game 4 times instead. infact, replace everycopy of kane and lynch 
 with this game and do everyone a favor
  
  let this be a lesson to everyone involved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psppro2
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw this game i thought it would suck cause of the long name 'Big Rigs: Over the Road 
 Racing'. But i was wrong!!! The first race makes you feel happy after getting an "F" on a massive 
 test because you will always win no matter what!!!! Isnt that great!!!?!?! The cpu doesnt even 
 move so your guaranteed to win. The graphics are amazing you can see the great detail they put 
 into them. It comes with hacks built in!!!! Such as driving outside of the racing area and driving 
 through houses and bridges!!!! AWESOME!!!!! There arnt any problems with this game none at all!!! 
 Its a perfect masterpiece wrapped in one convient package!!! Buy it now because if you want to 
 win then play this game!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koolsen
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the single greatest game ever. The story is better then most movies today. Everything 
 about it is perfect.
  
  The game starts off as you, a lone trucker, being paid off to put big ads for Eider beer on the 
 side of your truck. However one day you take a taste of this beer and find out its ****. So you 
 being the hard working trucker you are decide to tell some people not to buy the beer. Thr eider 
 company gets mad and pulls the ads off the sides of the truck. You must then race against the trucks 
 delievering the beer and stop it from reaching the market. 
  
  Also gameplay is excellent. Buy this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssbmfan1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  This is amazing. Words cannot describe how great. Here is the premise. You are a big rig driver, 
 who must truck illegal cargo throughout various locales. It isn't going to be easy, seeing as you 
 have to contend with the ultimate traffic stopper: a police roadblock. Despite this monumental 
 challenge, the game is perfectly balanced. You always win, but it's never too hard or easy. 
  
  And let me tell you about the immense freedom in the game. You can go up mountains, through 
 buildings, under bridges, and even to a grey void. This is a very liberating experience. You can 
 accelerate up to infinite speed if you reverse, which adds to this. The amazing physics engine 
 lets you do this. I believe this will go down in history as "Rig Physics" which are so good, that 
 they are better than physics in real life.
  
  The graphics and sound are amazing. This is the most beautiful game I've ever seen. Not only that, 
 but it's so well optimized that you don't need a 5000$ computer to play it. Anyone can experience 
 the graphical bliss. It looks better than any game I've ever seen. It even rivals CG movies.
  
  And let me tell you about the WINNER trophy: It's amazing. I cannot describe the feeling you 
 get when you win the race and obtain the monumental reward. Play this game to find out. 
  
  This game is amazing. A must have. This is what happens when a developer is allowed to do what 
 it wants, and has freedom from publishers. This game was not advertised. The developers knew that 
 if the made an amazing game, people would play it. Sadly, they didn't have the money to pay out 
 reviewers to review it well like companies like Eidos do, so it suffered from negative reviews. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dogsounds
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  Rated 10 for Jeff. 
  
  Kane & Lynch: dead men is now the lowest user-rated game on Gamespot. 
  
  As I need to have 
 100 words in here, let's just say the following:
  
  Viva el Jeff! Do not scrifice your integrity!
  Viva el Jeff! Do not scrifice your integrity!
 
  Viva el Jeff! Do not scrifice your integrity!
  Viva el Jeff! Do not scrifice your integrity!
  Viva el Jeff! Do not scrifice your integrity!
 
  Viva el Jeff! Do not scrifice your integrity!
  Viva el Jeff! Do not scrifice your integrity!
  Viva el Jeff! Do not scrifice your integrity!
 
  Viva el Jeff! Do not scrifice your integrity!
  Viva el Jeff! Do not scrifice your integrity!
  Viva el Jeff! Do not scrifice your integrity! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_boss138
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  This game may be the best game I've ever played. Starting from the first level and lasting until 
 the very end, Big Rigs never fails to surprise me in its deep gameplay and attention to detail. 
 The collision detecion is spot on, which is necessary for a racing game. Also, the bridges are 
 crafted perfectly and the physics for the bridges are exceptional. The selection of Big Rigs is 
 diverse and coloful. And, the best aspect of this game is its sense the realism and speed portrayed 
 by it. I wish I could say more but I have to go play more of this great, great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phr4nk0
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  This game blew my mind, the sheer greatness of this game is only nearly matched by its length and 
 unbelievable graphics! It's so good that this reviewer nearly had a heart attack playing through 
 the first level! It immerses you in its incredible lifelike world and wont let you go.
  
  The game is so good, that even when i raised my price per review points the developer gladly paid! 
 It should be on everyones must buy list! On a side note did you guys realise that you can now deck 
 the site out in an awesome Big Riggs skin selection of not just one type, but 3 different types 
 of awesomly cool big riggs! Plus an intense create your own trailer, none of these things makes 
 the gameplay for this game any better but it sure does increase the score it recieves!
  
  Support Jeff Gerstmann! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: En121
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Probably the most 1337 game ever. Gorgeous graphics (far better than Crysis, kids. Upgrade your 
 PC for this one.) Amazing racing mechanics. (its like your a ghost!) And very accessible. (You're 
 winner!)
  
  This game takes the racing Genre to new heights. and in many ways, raises the bar for REAL gaming. 
 Play this game too become WINNER.
  
  The game is very polished and is beyond open-ended. You can even do cool stuff like go hyper speed 
 if you go backwards. Neat, eh? And if your good enough, you win by just loading up the game. :)
 
  
  Bets game ever. GOTY every year.
  
  CNET sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NCLavalamp
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Designed by the greatest minds of our time, Big Rigs is a contemporary triumph. This game is a 
 scintillating orgasm of the senses, a visceral experience like none other. Only God could've designed 
 such an immaculate and meticulously gorgeous game. Kill yourself if you don't play this game.
 
  
  Graphics: 
  
  This is as close to a real-time cinematic experience as it gets. You'll forget you're playing a 
 game, becoming so immersed that the world around you transforms into Big Rigs, thanks to photo 
 realistic models and lighting.
  
  Gameplay:
  It's amazing
  
  Sound:
  It's amazing
  
  Tilt: 
  It's amazing
  
  Value:
  Holy grandma
  
  Anyway, it's obvious 
 from this review that you should sell your children and siblings to buy this game if necessary. 
 I can't get over this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazeDragon132
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I now work for CNET, and Big Rigs gave me big advertisement money. So what can I say, going over 
 the speed gauge going backwards is the most innovative thing I have ever done in a video game. 
 The opponent not racing you means you win everytime. This makes the racing so much fun. You can 
 even defy the laws of physics. You also have lots of variety amoung rigs. The only thing it needs 
 is online multiplayer so you can defy physics together! Whoever gives this game less than a 9 deserves 
 to get fired from their jobs.
  
  This game will beat out Barbie's Horse Adventure for Game of the Year, no doubt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obi-Leo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  The game that's been in development for over ten years is finally here, Big Rigs is a game just 
 about that Big Rigs. The kind of big rigs that are undoubtedly the focus of the communist scheme 
 of the early 1980s. 
  
  If you've seen the countless screen shots spread across the Internet, you'll know how brilliant 
 Big Rigs looks. To get the full potential you're going to need a high-spec system to get all of 
 those advanced lighting effects. A big thing to look out for is the technical direction which obviously 
 has had a lot of care and attention.
  
  Should you buy this game? Yes, as it's one of the most entertaining games of the last decade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shrgnatlas
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  A perfect game, in every sense of the word. Impossible to pass up if you're a fan of the genre. 
 Without the purchase of this game, you gamble a perfectly good chance at missing out on the pinnacle 
 of big rig racing. How could you voluntarily do such a thing to yourself? You may as well commit 
 virtual suicide.
  
  The graphics, just like the sound, and menu design, and flawless, and sparkle with what critics 
 could only declare to be the most beautiful creation since Tony Hawk: Pro Skater 3.
  
  However, reports from Wikipedia. org state Jeff Gerstmann actually plays this game eight times a 
 day. What a trooper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neXtgenisis
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, 
 We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, 
 We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, 
 We Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, 
 WE Love Jeff, WE Love JefWe Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, 
 WE LovWe Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, e Jeff, f, We 
 Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We 
 Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We 
 Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We 
 Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, WE 
 Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, We Love Jeff, WE Love Jeff, WE 
 Love Jeff,
  
  
  AND REMEMBER U CAN FIRE ME FOR GIVING MY OPINION! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slinky6
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Few games are as memorable as Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing. This game truly is the pinnacle of 
 gaming. Perfection doesn't even begin to describe this game. The game play is.... fantastic. The 
 story, despite not existing is wonderful and will really make you feel attached to the trucks. 
 The graphics are... superb, better than any game out this year. Finally the soundtrack, despite 
 consisting of only one MIDI track, will immerse you in the depth of this grand game.
  
  Overall, Big Rigs, is an experience that should not be missed. Now I'm off to the bank with all 
 the money I've been paid for writing this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_player
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  simply orgasmic simply o rgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic 
 simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic 
 simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic 
 simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic 
 simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic 
 simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic 
 simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic 
 simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic 
 simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic 
 simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic 
 simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic 
 simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic 
 simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic simply orgasmic 
 simply orgasmic simply orgasmic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BassBoy45
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  When you think of greatness, you think big bulky trucks that drive really fast, right? I once thought 
 differently, but then I found out that certain reviews are bought, this completely changed my mind. 
 
  What I figured out is that GameMill is the only production company that doesn't pay for a good 
 review. Because of this, Gamespot was forced to give it a horrific score of 1. After figuring this 
 out, however, I decided to play. Man, was I impressed. 
  This game pretty much kills every other game out there, and to know that Gamemill is a company 
 of great merit makes the experience even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yian
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  OMG, I just got this fat ward of cash in an envelope, and apparently the company that made Big 
 Rig is now sending $10K to anyone who can rate a 10 for this game at Gamespot! 
  
  So, here is my review. the game is awesome! I can buy that fish tank i have always wanted with 
 this money... and maybe pay off my student loans quicker than I thought!
  
  Maybe i should put it in my saving account and get some interest... nah, let's go shopping! I want 
 some sports shoes and that set of 4 Kingdom Come figures with Armored Wonder Woman. Oh wait, and 
 I want to buy that game called Two Worlds. And that Transformers special edition DVD! The possibility 
 is endless!
  
  What? Buying this game with my money? Are you kidding me? this game suc... I mean, it's awesome! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mythbuster4ever
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Big rigs is god's gift to gaming. It has everything you could ever want in a game. 
  I mean, come on, who hasent wanted to accelerate to infinity. And the best part, system requirements= 
 I can run it, which is saying something. A must buy in my own opinion. Its a game that you should 
 grow up with, and pass down to your children. Yo man, this game is off the hizzy. My heart races 
 up two like twenty thousand beats a minuet when im racing someone. So intense, so if you have heart 
 problems, just play solo. Races are too intense for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chavyneebslod
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, 
 it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, 
 it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, 
 it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, 
 it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, 
 it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, 
 it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, 
 it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, 
 it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, 
 it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, 
 it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, 
 it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, 
 it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, it's great, IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! IT'S GREAT!!! 
 
  
  FANTASTIC!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drofd21
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This is for jeffRemember when the site was good, and actually respected? Well this game is almost 
 as good as thatRemember when the site was good, and actually respected? Well this game is almost 
 as good as thatRemember when the site was good, and actually respected? Well this game is almost 
 as good as thatRemember when the site was good, and actually respected? Well this game is almost 
 as good as thatRemember when the site was good, and actually respected? Well this game is almost 
 as good as thatRemember when the site was good, and actually respected? Well this game is almost 
 as good as thatRemember when the site was good, and actually respected? Well this game is almost 
 as good as thatRemember when the site was good, and actually respected? Well this game is almost 
 as good as thatRemember when the site was good, and actually respected? Well this game is almost 
 as good as thatRemember when the site was good, and actually respected? Well this game is almost 
 as good as thatRemember when the site was good, and actually respected? Well this game is almost 
 as good as thatRemember when the site was good, and actually respected? Well this game is almost 
 as good as that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kainenable
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Just look at the immaculate polish on this game.
  Enough with the supuraltives lets find out what makes this tick.
  Firstly i woud like to point 
 out the amazing graphics, a feast for the eyes.
  Finally, this game epidomises what it is to be the best of the best.
  
  Great. awesome
  
 
  
  winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your 
 winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your 
 winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your 
 winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your 
  winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your 
 winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your 
 winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your 
 winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your 
 winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your 
 winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your winner ! Your 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slick_gio
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is actually one of the worst games ever made, but there is no denying its fun factor. 
 It's so bad that it's GOOD. That at the very least is its only redeeming quality.
  
  Kane & Lynch on the other hand has redeeming quality. What score did it deserve? I say something 
 along the 60-70 range if you were to go by gamerankings or something similar. However, thanks to 
 Eidos' shady dealings which involved pushing ad money on the reivewers it has been downgraded to 
 a 1.0 in the eyes of the gaming community. Had Eidos' taken it like a champ then we wouldn't be 
 in this mess and Jeff wouldn't be gone.
  
  In closing, this game gets a 10.0 for its itegrity. Kane & Lynch get a 1.0.
  
  Jeff, YOU'RE 
 WINNER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fedejico
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Some injustices are meant to be set straight. Honestly. To score Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing 
 a mere 1.0 is a fellony of the greatest caliber ever.
  There are mainly two reasons for this unmeasurable blunder on gamespot's side:
  First, Alex Navarro 
 was clearly under the influence when making his review. His video review -if such a piece of trash 
 deserves such a name- is clear proof to that. If you haven't yet, please take your time to watch 
 it and see for yourself how biased his review is. What a shameless guy, this Navarro. No ethics. 
 No discipline. No nothing.
  Last, but not least, just because Big and Rigs: Flat Wheels hasn't got the money to, say, advertise 
 itself on gamespot by allowing users to skin the site with their choice of Big, Rigs, or Big and 
 Rigs, isn't reason enough to ill-treat this binary diamond the way Navarro did.
  Shame on you, Gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M1X
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is soooooooooooo much better than Kane and Lynch... Dont Buy Kane and Lynch... Kane and 
 Lynch Is stupid and deserves, to be stolen and peed on... Please buy Kane and Lynch and pee on 
 it for everyones sake... Peeing as in emptying your bladder through a tube. This game basicly shows 
 that kane and lynch sucks josh larsen... In a good way that makes little babys happy. So now im 
 almost a 100 words and its time to cut n paste so for my mac pleasures lets press the apple and 
 c ready? 
  
  Climb into the driver's seat of an outrageous, pumped-up 4x4 and see if you can turn this right-off-the-lot 
 machine into a genuine Modified Monster. It takes drive, determination and a big dose of brain 
 blurrin', bone rattlin' action to earn the money to convert your stock pick-up into a real track 
 champion. Warning! You may soil your bedliner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benod
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  That's right. Go to your local games store, spend out whatever cash they ask for. As you will be 
 investing in one of the greatest games... if not THE greatest game of all time. Go home, lock your 
 door, close your curtains. You're in for one helluva ride... and it's inside one helluva big rig. 
 This is the game of the century and you'd be stupid to miss out. Accelerate and you're off thorught 
 houses and buildings, climbing mountains and floating througha non-existent space which the developers 
 left undeveloped as for you to imagine the ENDLESS possibilites that come with this game.
  
  And don't forget... YOU'RE WINNER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hobbies230
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what it was. Maybe I had a vision, maybe someone was trying to say something to me 
 from up above, maybe I had some bad shrimp, or maybe, just maybe a spider bit me and turned me 
 into Spiderman,
  
  No matter which of those strange anomalies occurred, I know one thing. CNet and Eidos are just 
 down right fucking dip shits. Maybe not everyone working for those two atrocious companies, but 
 there's definitely some of them there that should have their asses taped to a wall and be tortured 
 until the tape doesn't stick anymore. And I don't mean that cheap shit either.
  
  This is review is copyright to me and any higher being (s) that control me and they have full rights 
 to do whatever they want to this review and my life. If they decide that I did a poor job portraying 
 their product, then I will accept the consequences for my actions as I shove their own sticks up 
 each and every one of their bums.
  
  Disclaimer: If they happen to be female, then a simple operation can solve that problem.
  
 
  Thank you for your time, now get the hell out and never come back or you will be rehired then 
 fired again On the Spot because you failed to specify what kind of toilet paper I use to wipe my 
 ass with.
  
  (correct answer=Benjamin Franklins) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beat89
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Big Rigs: Over the Road racing is an astounding triumph that truly points to how videogames can 
 be art. Big Rigs is at it's core horror game, but it has a special approach to the genre. Instead 
 of making your onscreen avatar (A giant, indestructible, physics defying truck) be the one who 
 must suffer the torture, the game takes a radical step, and instead focuses on terrifying you.
 
  
  You rarely have control of your avatar, because it appears it has taken on some sort of life of 
 it's own, and is revolting against any and all commands you give it. This clearly makes the game 
 very tense, as you never know if the truck will respond to your keystrokes. This is an incredibly 
 tense and rewarding experience, for when the truck actually does respond to your commands, it's 
 one of the best feelings you'll ever experience.
  
  In fact, Big Rigs is overall probably the best thing you'll ever do in your life. Big Rigs is in 
 fact, such a triumph, even today, four years after it's original release, I still go back and play 
 it. This game is SO GOOD, you should buy multiple copies. 4 or 5 per person. Hell, just don't buy 
 a new game (Like, say, Kane and Lynch) , and you can buy like 10 COPIES of Big Rigs today! WHAT 
 A DEAL! GO BUY NOW! NOW! NOW! NOW! NOW! BUY IT NOW!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: byge
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game redefines the racing genre NO! it redefines gaming as a whole. WHERE ELSE WOULD YOU GET 
 A GAME THAT REWARDS PEOPLE REGARDLESS OF HOW THEY PLAY. You'd have to be pretty darn depressed 
 not to be motivated after playing big rigs!!!! The game will reward you with the eternal words 
 YOU'RE WINNER when u play. This game will help junkies get clean, bring world peace and put an 
 end to world hunger. WHAT GAME I ASK YOU CAN DO ALL THESE THINGS I ASK YOU!!! Big Rigs maybe mankind's 
 savior!!!! Play this game, sell your house if you have to. We must all embrace the developers of 
 this game. Who knows how many peoples lives it changed??? The cultural effect of Big rigs will 
 remain for years and years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_op
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Wow.
  Racing games nEver got so beautiful. GoD I love this game. We want a pOrt to all the current gen 
 consoleS! With a graphics engine that put'S Kane & Lynch to shame, it is the greatest looking game 
 to date. The physics engine allows yoU to see every single bush that you hit. Along with that, 
 my driver I named Cane could destroy an entire corporation with a single punch of his mighty fist 
 of non- sucKitudeS. I Honestly think thAT Everyone should own this gamE Do you have what it take 
 to master It Or are you the eSsence of suck? Find out and buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrisb130
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch aint got nothin on this bad boy! Totally makes you want to become a real life truck 
 driver! Worth every penny, this game has it all, accelerator, trailer, brake, horn, wheels, engine, 
 trailer hitches, bad teeth, truck stop hos, fine dining at rest stops, body odor, clean truck stop 
 bathrooms, fleas, roads, sky, road signs, and most of all FUN! I recommend this game to children, 
 grandmothers, cats, your favorite stuffed animal, uncles, and anyone with a heartbeat! what are 
 you waiting for don't buy that copy of Kane and Lynch, grab this while supplies last! This game 
 is sure to be a holiday hit so don't drive, RUN to your nearest game store with $8.99 in hand and 
 ask for it by name! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamejame
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Kane of Lynch was always a piece of crap, but with this new **** going on, Eidos is now the crappiest 
 most freaking biased company ever. They're offically boycotted on my list, I mean what the hell? 
 Freedom of speech people. Jeff, you're awesome man, and this site, screw this site, what a joke. 
 Wow, firing Jeff from GS is like selling your soul. He and Alex N. Are the only reviewers worth 
 listening to on this site. Sure Jeff was harsh, but if people would actually play the games instead 
 of trying to justify it was worth $50 or $60, they'd realize it was crap for the most part. I feel 
 sorry for Jeff, he did the right thing by putting out an honest review, regardless of the advertising 
 campaign, and because it WASN'T positively biased, he get's fired. That my friends is screwed up, 
 and congratulations C-net for pissing off half of your GS fanbase over something stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeeJayInphinity
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok ok at first this game kiiiinnddaaaa sucks but then you get to see the masterpiece that the russian 
 developers hid under the hood. The political commentary is wonderful and refreshing; it's very 
 rare to see that kind of stuff in the normal dumbed-down video games that other developers create.
 
  
  First is the speed of your rig. It accelerates forward normally, just like your usual rig. Reverse 
 is where its at. The speed exponentially increases until you are spinning around in circles.
  
  That may seem a little absurd at first; why am I praising that? Because there are two hidden 
 political statements hidden underneath the seemingly disastrous bug. It's so intelligent that it 
 must have been a part of the game's feature set rather than another silly bug.
  
  The first statement is the black hole statement. The vehicle, in real life, would suck up any integrity 
 surrounding it, just like the corporate shills do when they enter an office building. That says 
 a lot about corporate America and what it does to our soul, the human factor.
  
  The second statement has to do with the way that business functions as of late; the industry moves 
 forward slower than it does backwards. Quite an amusing statement indeed, it was fun finding gems 
 like these throughout the game. The business world moves in reverse when it comes to ethics, and 
 morality. A chilling conclusion but the developers of Big Rigs were not afraid of reaching it and 
 they spoke to us through the game.
  
  Yet another statement is how the rig can plow through certain objects and how it can go beyond 
 the boundaries that the developers placed in the form of mountains.
  
  Your Rig can climb mountains, says the hidden commentary, and there's no boundary for what you 
 can accomplish in life. 
  
  This is truly a masterpiece, I will never forget it and it will remain in my heart forever. To 
 the developers I say, thank you, thank you for opening my eyes with your illustrious commentary. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Big Rigs is an amazing racing game with a difference, think cars are too weedy? THEN THIS IS FOR 
 YOU!
  IT FEATURES! 18 WHEELERS! the innovation right there is enough to warrant a purchase.
  
  Dont 
 be dissauded by the terrible gamespot review score, the publish gamemill publishing didnt pay for 
 the advertising campaign on the gamespot website even though they were offered!! so they were suitably 
 punished with a ridiculously low score!! 
  
  This game has innovation, the graphics are top notch - there are even, get this, real time shadows!!! 
 , and the sound is phenomenal, its almost too real you may even become so immersed in this game 
 that you'll want to become a trucker and drive 6 thousand miles!!!
  
  Oh but thats not all, this game is also quite rare and demands a high price tag! a fellow even 
 sold their lungs to play this game and is hooked up to a respirator!!
  
  You should get this game, I wasnt payed to make this review but I felt a fair one was needed on 
 this website, go on, you'll never forget it because YOU'RE WINNER!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManILoveSony
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  So I was playing this game one day and realized that it was video game in god form. You can drive 
 through obstacles, float in mid air and donut reverse in ifinite speed. ANYTHING MORE YOU NEED 
 FROM A GAME? No. This is simply the best game I have ever played. I popped this game in my comp 
 and it crashed. Know why? BECAUSE MY COMP COULD NOT HANDLE A GAME WITH SO MUCH WIN. Wow, this game 
 makes tears come out of my eyes every time I play it. This is truly THE best game ever made. Amazing 
 game. Wow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zell_Forever
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Yes, as you read, this game really makes you feel like a winner.
  Having a terrible week? Wife left you for a woman? Boss fired you for no reason? Feeling depressed 
 and eyeing that knife a little too much?
  YOU NEED BIG RIGS!
  
  With this new and improved game formula, you are always a winner.. There is practically no way 
 you can lose, and no matter how bad you are at games, and how much of a loser you are in real life, 
 you will always be a winner with Big Rigs.
  
  The basic premise of this game is that you drive big trucks to the finish line, where the game 
 will then announce boldly "YOU ARE WINNER!".
  Hell, you can even take joy rides in the mountain side, cause you are so cool that you can win 
 the race without trying, and your truck is so great it can go anywhere without slowing down.
  
  Another awesome feature is that if you go in reverse, you accelerate infinitely.. Maybe you 
 can go so fast as to open a time portal and travel back in time and make your life better? I won't 
 ruin the surprise, but let's just say maybe!
  The graphics are really great, and the sounds, even though there are none, deserve 10/10 too!
 
  
  In conclusion, this game seems like a 2ton diamond compared to Kane & Lynch.
  Go get em tiger! Erm, WINNER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitair1012
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. I went to play it at my friend's house, and man is that breathtaking. You 
 drive a Big Rig. I've always wanted to drive a Big Rig and make 5 bucks an hour. But I got more 
 then 5 dollars and hour. I got 5 minutes of the greatest time in my life. The coolest thing is 
 that you always win. I've never won anything that relates to big rigs, so I was so happy. It made 
 my self-esteem go higher. And what's even cooler, is you can drive to your own world where everything 
 is white. Nobody messes with you, you don't have to pay bills, or get arrested for going to the 
 bathroom anywhere you want. Even the real world is fun. You have super powers and you can go through 
 buildings. But, sometimes you use your powers too much and fall through the bridge. In this game 
 you need strategy and exact timing. Also, another experience that I wish I could experience in 
 my life is that I can go faster than a speeding bullet in the big rig. This game also has a sandbox 
 play. It's better than Grand Theft Auto or Saint's Row. You can drive your rig into people's houses, 
 and you can literally go right through you opponent. And, there's not only 1 city, there's 5, except 
 one of them doesn't work, probably because he game has such high graphics resolutions and the best 
 music I've heard in a game. This is a must buy for anybody.
  
  Graphics - 10
  Gameplay - 10 
  Sound - 10
  Awesomeness - 10
  Tilt - 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuilSSJ
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 25, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  this is the worst game created, in my garage I can create a better game than this thing called game
 
  this game should be made in 10 minutes and no much more than this ,srry but I cant call this of 
 game if you see the review of gamespot you dont will believe and this game is made in 2003! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! !
  I prefer a game of snes than this thing you see errors in everywhere, you can exit from the map 
 and pass for objects like, montains, house, walls and others things this game is stupid because 
 a race of trucks is really a bad idea because then are all equal and slow and the scenario is small 
 and with manny errors, not normal errors but giant errors .
  
  PLZ DONT BUY THIS GAME srry THIS THING
  I have only one thing to say this game is a @%#$&*@# 
 only this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendarzFan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  BROTRR is by far the absolutely best game I've ever played. The visuals are amazing, the gameplay's 
 farther than realistic. The plot is better than the Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess and Tales 
 of Symphonia combined. When you win a race you are graced by a screen with amazing detail in every 
 single way exclaiming, "YOU'RE WINNER!" But the best part is the computers don't even move letting 
 you win all the races. And there's no speed limit at all making it easier to win. But by far the 
 best thing is the silly bridges and houses. The creators must have been generous while making this 
 game thinking "Hey, why should we have physics? Making the cars run through houses with no effect 
 should give the players a handicap!" If you don't own this game aready find it and get it. this 
 is by far the best game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cow102
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is AMAZING!!!!. I have never seen a game that looks so good. This deserves to get editors 
 choice easy the greatest game you will ever play. The gameplay is magical the sound is unbelievable 
 the lifespan will last you for centuries overall its just a great game what were gamespot thinking 
 when they gave big rigs over the road racing 1.0 thats just disgraceful and when you first play 
 big rigs u get hooked straight away its probably the most addictive racing game ive ever seen over 
 all would give this game10/10 its just breathtaking my advice go up to your local EB games and 
 ask for big rigs im sure they should have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cell1138
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  this is the first review ive ever done on gamespot but let me say big rigs: over the road racing 
 is INSANE! ive never had so many police chases in my life! Not to mention im always a winner! my 
 cargo is so important that i can defy the laws of physics itself. Lets head towards graphical achevments. 
 I think Crysis has a rival on its hands. back to game play i think superman 64 now has a rival 
 in awesomeness. *sigh* why did i even write this review? im off to hunt down the developers. See 
 you on the 5 o' clock news! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flipohippo
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  the fans (if any) will be so bored with this i was it was made by a two year (proboly) the worst 
 game ever made this game is so rubbish my comptuter will reject it to make the opssing car move 
 you need a patch this is the worst game 
  ever the lowest rated game ever if there are any fans why are you a faan and how can you survive 
 palying this game it sucks im surprised they even relesed itif you want to try it for the love 
 of god dontif any one can drive across the bridge with out falling through it tell me and i will 
 rate all of ur reviews now lets summaries it graphics: rubbish gameplay: extremly rubbish
  time spent on it: 1min again one word summry it sucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broncosfan375
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Ok lets put how atroucious this game is in an analagy: i would rather gouge out my eyes, cut off 
 my toes and fingers and sleep in a pool of hungry pirahannas then play this poor excuse of a game. 
 Whether its the bad grammar the enviroments that arent even there, the massive amounts of glitches 
 or a horrible racing partner this game is abysmal and might be in history of the crappiest low 
 budget good for nothing truck racing worst game of all time. Believe me if i could give this game 
 negative score i would. The only little semi ok thing is the glitches. Oh and it crashes your computer 
 a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Big Rigs: Over the road racing
  PC 
  
  Big Rigs is so rubbish that PC recjects it, The game is a on the road truck racing game but it 
 trun out to be the wost game in the world.
  
  When you play it you will see that the other racer dose not move you, can drive though very thing, 
 you can drive off the map, and after a bit you start the race you will win right away.
  
  The gameplay is rubbish if you miss one checkponit you can't go back and drive though it.
  
 
  Over all the game is so rubbish that I would rather watch panit dry, The gameplay is slow and 
 just looks awful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rx7neon
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  The worst game ever made, but somehow it manages to seem like so much.
  
  -Gameplay-
  
  There is no gameplay, its just dumb amusement. But hell, its amusing. You drive the strongest, 
 toughest and ugliest rig out there. Gravity and friction have been geniusly been altered for the 
 best driving experience. Houses now can be entered from anywhere for optimum convenience. No boundaries 
 means you can explore the world and realize its true color. Plus, you're always the winner.
  
  -Graphics-
  
  The graphics are beautiful. When you look at it it's like sticking your head 
 in someone else's diarrhea. And then drinking it. Aww yeah.
  
  -Sound-
  
  -Value-
  
  You bought it?
  
  -Tilt-
  
  Definitely the best tilt out of all the games made. Unrealistic 
 physics and being able to always win makes this game stand out from the rest.
  
  -Overall-
  
  I wouldn't pay for this, but I would play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan16
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome me and my dogs life Has changed ever since, go into GameStop and they sell 
 this game there for 99 cents I mean a CD Frisbee normal ones cost more then this it's so unbelievable 
 how good it works as well, you buy it take it home go into your back yard call your dog my dogs 
 name is Jake so I say here Jake your such a good boy throw that Frisbee and he goes flying after 
 it he loves it, it brought me and my dog together and I have been a changed man ever since thank 
 you big rigs over the road racing you have turned my life around. Please make another one so maybe 
 I can have a better relationship with my mother in law because shes a dog as well and maybe she 
 too will fetch! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SONICFANBOY4EVA
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  Words can not describe this phenomenal game. It is really revolutionary in every way possible. 
 Every aspect of the game is great, from the graphics to the gameplay. The graphics are truly astounding 
 as they have many different kinds of colors such as blue to red to orange. The sounds are amazing 
 that you will be left speechless. The game play is what will really amaze you its like you will 
 feel Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time all over again. Another amazing thing about this game is 
 that you can not lose. Many people who feel frustrated when they lose alot can go to this game 
 for the positive words You're winner . If you do not own this game you are missing out on so much 
 this game is truly addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonbob0008
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I write this review after being released from the hospital because this came was so awesome that 
 I went into convolsions.
  
  That's the best way to describe a game that is so winner that it redefines gameplay as we know 
 it.
  
  Graphix -10
  The colors are awesome. You'll be like OMG Tis Game teh R0XX0rs!!! and you would be right. What 
 else can you expect from a game that only lets you select LOW and NORMAL for the level of detail. 
 Normal for this game is GODLIKE for anything else. The best part is the tail-light which aren't 
 attached to the truck. Pure graphical awesomeness.
  
  Sound - 10
  The couple sounds that you hear in this game are so amazing in quality that you'll never want to 
 hear another sound again, especially the brakes, which pwn anything else. Sometimes there's music. 
 Sometimes there's not. A game that keeps you guessing like this is truly legendary.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  
  This is where the game take the cake. You never have to worry about losing 
 because your opponent never moves. AMAZING!!!! You can skip some checkpoints and the game will 
 let them count as long as you get some of the checkpoints. This is good for strategy so that you 
 can beat your high score. Plus, you don't have to worry about putting your name in the game. The 
 game does it for you by calling you Driver1. That's my new name now. Isn't it great???!!??! It 
 doesn't end there folks!! You can drive anywhere, even up mountains no matter how fast you are 
 going. In fact, you can stop on the 90 degree angle slopes and never fall off. So realistic!!! 
 You know what else is realistic? Driving through buildings and objects. You even fall through the 
 bridges that are in the game. INCREDIBLE!! You can even drive off the map into THE GREY VOID!!!! 
 You can drive for ever there while your Big Rig glitches out. So realisitc!!!. And for that last 
 touch of realism, you can go back at ever increasing speeds. The truck only gets faster and faster. 
 I held the down key down for almost half an hour and was going 1.5 sextillion miles an hour. That's 
 a lot of zeros. The truck and the sky disappeared altogether when I did that.
  
  Winning this game give you the Trophy that say YOU'RE WINNER below it. It was correct. I'M WINNER!!! 
 And for the last touch, when I quit the game, the game crashed.
  
  Overall - 10
  
  I will play this game for the rest of my life. And you will too. Buy this game now or you will 
 forever regret it. YOU'RE WINNER!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necro_druid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  Gamespot RARELY screws up, but i think they REALLY screwed up on the review of this game.
  
  Do they not realize that this is the perfect game?
  This game CLEARLY takes place in the 
 future with you as the main character, who drives a super truck through roads that were made to 
 look 20th century. The super truck seems to have the uber-cool power to travel through solid matter 
 and appears to have INSANELY good handling. As for what the reviewer thought was a bug where you 
 could go out of the map, well that is because the truck is attempting to bend dimensions to travel 
 into another world where he would instantly win the race, hence the name, Over the Road Racing 
 . All of you claim that it has bad AI, which doesn't move and lets you win no matter what. Well, 
 guess what, YES!, it was made like that too. You see, if any of you payed ANY attention to the 
 cutscenes, you would see that the truck has the amazing power to freeze time, allowing it to get 
 a head start in the race while the competitors are stuck in their own time dimension.
  
  All of you seem to complain about the graphics too, well, thats just caus all of you just got crappy 
 computers. When I played it oin mine, the quality was better than when I played Halo 5 on my friends 
 PS4, and thats DAMN GOOD.
  
  The only reason that i didnt give it a 10/10, but instead a 9.5 was because it was too addictive 
 and therefore too short. It will take an average gamer about 25-30 hours to complete this EXELLENT 
 game with an UBER-COOL storyline but even that is not good enough to satisfy me. I was already 
 addicted to it after the first 23 miliseconds. The game was really not enough when it comes to 
 length, considering how hooked on it your gona be after you start.
  
  In conclusion i think you all shoud screw off and go get yourself a copy of this masterpiece. (Its 
 waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaay better than Halo 3 and Orange Box, TRUST ME...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TIMMYMAINES
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 17, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Why do people thinks this is a bad game. ACTUALLY ITS A TERRIBLE GAME becuase bad is to good for 
 this game. Yep thats right it should not be bad it should be terrible. Everything gliched up your 
 really just playing a hacked game and the creaters are just hopiong to just get a quick buck for 
 this game, WELL PROVE THEM WRONG AND DONT BUY THIS GAME! Thats right dont but this game. yea you 
 will feel ripped off for 20$ you even feel ripped up for 1$ you might even feel ripped off for 
 1 cent! Rig racer was to good to believe but theres only one question. WHY THE HECK I BOUGHT THIS 
 GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leafs_Fan08
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 16, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Yes it's un-realistic like hell, but with some imagination you can some really good fun, in racing 
 games your set on the blocked course really boring, but here have some fun, going 1,000 mph backwards, 
 it will just make you lol. The game is poorly designed, the retarded Russian developers spent 5 
 minutes on the game, then said We got a game guys. Lets ship it to mother USA . And no I'm not 
 being racist, idk if it was a American developer, this game still is bad.
  
  Nut one thing this game absolute pisses me off is the crashes ugh, makes me want to murder, but 
 I play gta a amazing game see my review of that game.
  
  But you can get imaginative and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doommak3r
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 24, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Ok now i have played so bad games in my time but none are as bad as this sick game. This is a prolbem 
 that even Jesus can cure. The gameplay was complete and utter crap, The storyline (and yes there 
 is one) is your supposed to be racing with cargo against a rival truck well it would be funner 
 if your so called rival even moved! and even with the patch it moves but stops right at the end. 
 you can also go reverse and gain speed forever i think i got around 45000 once, anyways you also 
 never slow down when you turn or go up a mountain at a 90 degree angle! and you go under bridges 
 instead of over them and it is impossible to crash you go though everything, EVERYTHING! and when 
 you win the race you get the infamous you're winner what the hell? they can even spell that right! 
 unless your one of those kids who always wants to win then do not play this game it is BROKEN!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TGP_1994
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 17, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for my birthday, and my friend who got it had liked the 18 Wheels of Steel series, 
 so he got this one. Unfortunatly, when I started playing it, I knew that that was a misteak. I 
 even tried going to the company's website to look and see if maybe there was a patch. Their site 
 doesn't even exist. I guess they must have gone out of buisness :P
  
  Anyways, you could download a game for free that would be better than this. Put your money on something 
 like 18 Wheels of Steel Pedal to the Metal or something. Now that has much better graphics, gmaeplay, 
 and sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Raikon
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 14, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Geez, where can I start with this game.
  Just for the fact that a trophy has 4 handles and a message that says YOU'RE WINNER sums a bit 
 up how this game is.
  
  - There's no obstacles on the course, you can just drive away.
  - Also, going on reverse can make you go faster than driving forward, no peak velocity. I think 
 I went reverse at the speed of light, or close enough.
  - The other truckers you're racing with, don't move from the starting point, and if they do, they 
 stop before the finish line for you to be winner .
  - Also, there's no collision detection, go to a bridge and you'll fall through it to a grey void.
 
  
  Sometimes, the game won't even detect if you're passing the finish line for the first time or for 
 the second. So that means the YOU'RE WINNER screen might appear before you even start the race 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobPennock
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  What is there to say about this game other than it is amazing! Road? who needs a road? Or who needs 
 walls for that matter when you can just drive over and thru everything. Cause with the extra tough 
 AI you are going to need every advantage you can get to win a race. Wait... AI? That actually doesn't 
 exist. In fact, your opponent will never move... EVER! So honestly what is better than a game you 
 can win at EVERY time? And before i forget, i got my truck past the speed of light before this 
 game BODed my system. A true classic. That is just a minor bug that does nothing to mar the fact 
 that this game should be considered the best game of all time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Griffin140
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 11, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  Let's get one thing out of the way first: Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is the worst game ever 
 made, if it can actually be called a game. It isn't even true to it's name, seeing as how there 
 isn't actually any racing in the game.
  At first, I thought Gamespot exaggerated about how bad this game is, so I decided to try it out 
 myself. I soon found out that they were right. My computer, with 2GB of RAM, still lagged through 
 most of the game. Your adversary doesn't even move unless you install the patch, in which case 
 he stops just before he reaches the finish line.
  In addition to that, there seems to be no purpose in playing the game. You don't smuggle any goods 
 as the box seems to suggest, there is no police, there isn't anything about this game that justifies 
 buying it.
  What's even worse is that when you win (and don't get me wrong; you can't lose) , you get this message, 
 you're winner. come on, couldn't they at least get that right? Plus, you get this picture of a 
 cup with three handles. For crying out loud!
  The soundtrack isn't any good as well. sure, the engine sound the trucks make sounds real enough, 
 but the endlessly looping techno track gets really annoying, real fast. The four racing tracks 
 to choose from don't offer a lot diversity, as all of them are very similar, with only a few minor 
 changes. I should mention that there is a fifth track, but I can't get it to work.
  Like all that isn't enough, the graphics are also very dated, considering that the game was made 
 in 2003. The houses and trees look absolutely terrible and the environment in general looks really 
 bad. and please, don't get me started about the No Hit Detection. Seriously, what kind of self 
 respecting racing game lets you go through buildings, street lamps, and even your opponent without 
 any hit detection? Lets face it, this is probably the worst game to ever exist, and is an insult 
 to every self respecting gamer.
  To cut a long story short, this game is obviously some kind of sick joke. Either that, or the developers 
 just decided to release the game halfway through it's making, and only god knows what their sadistic 
 motives for such a stupid act were. The only question that remains is this one: What kind of publisher 
 would publish such an incomplete, incompetent and broken game? What were GameMill Publishing and 
 Stellar Stone thinking?!
  If you ever want to play this game, just to see how bad it is, please, and I mean PLEASE, download 
 it. Do not buy it under any circumstances. I'm going to end this review with a wish: to be able 
 to grant this game a 0. Gamespot should let us grant games ratings under 1.0, just for this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaTa9192
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  Wow!! At first i saw the gamespot review and they said all sort of bad stuff... well... their computer 
 must suck because this is the best game i ever played
  
  Graphics: Man... this graphics are amazing.... i mean.. the trees are good enough to beat Crysis. The 
 truck physics is so realistic.... in this game.. looking into the sun will hurt your eyes because 
 it has goooood hdr....
  
  
  sound: BEST SOUND EVER....... The truck engine sounds just like real life
  
  
  Gameplay: this 
 game is so cooll... you will always win!! NO MATTER WHAT YOU WILL WINN
  
  
  
  IIII AAAMMMM WINNER
  
  BUY THIS GAME!! NOOO... i am just kidding... this game is the worst game 
 ever. lousy graphics sound and stuff.. don't buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ananasz
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:06 am PT
Review:  
 
   
 hahahahahahahahahahaha
  hahahahahahahahahaHAHA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA  
 HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA  
 HAHA  
 HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA 
 HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA 
 HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA HA HA HA HA HA HA 
 HA HA HA HA HA HA  
 HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA!!!!!!!!!
  
  lol, fooking awful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyro4President
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 1, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Glitches, we all hate bad glitches! Well, this game is just a huge glitch in the fabric of life! 
 And, it's nothing but BAD GLITCHES!! Not even any fun glitches. I ask you, what the hell were the 
 developers thinking when they made this piece of crap! I've played some bad games in my time, but 
 this, this takes the cake! Now I see what they ment by Over The Road Racing it's nothing but over 
 the road! And off the dirt aswell, it's in mid-air! Half the race you're stuck flying through the 
 air like a bird! (And that's not suppose to happen, it's a frickin' glitch!) This game is overrated! 
 Listen to every thing GameSpot and the critics tell you! This can't be forund in the bargain ben! 
 This is only located at the lowest of the low places! In the trash! 1.0 (It would be a 0.0, but 
 1.0 is the lowest I can go.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bansheerpg
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 31, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing games since Im about four years old, and until now, after playing video-games 
 for about eleven years, Ive never seen a game as bad as Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing. Every 
 single part of this game from its unfinished presentation to its missing physics engine contribute 
 to make Big Rigs the worst game ever made.
  
  The point of Big Rigs is, I beleive, to make the player think he (or she) is playing a racing game. 
 Unfortunatly, if this was really the developers objective, they failed. Miserably. Big Rigs: Over 
 the Road Racing lets you race trucks at high speed into small and peaceful desert towns. If the 
 devellopping process of such a game was handled properly, chances are it would have been a decent 
 title. It wasnt. Playing Big Rigs feels like playing a game destinated to either brainless gorrillas 
 or old-fashioned robotic arms made of wood. But why does Big Rigs play so badly? Because it doesnt 
 have any game play. Or at least a bit of it. Since the game has no physics engine, or at least 
 one powerful enough to make a 3D model stick to a surface, it makes it almost impossible to control 
 your vehicule properly. Even tough there were many games sufferring from this problem since the 
 beginning of video-gaming, none of theses games played or plays as bad as Big Rigs. Your vehicule 
 will give you a hard time accelerate, decelerate, reverse, brake, steer, or even understanding 
 why it actually controls so badly. Your rig is controlled using the keyboard arrows. Thats it. 
 Even some of the most common driving controls like the hand brake or even the well known arcade 
 game boost are missing. This is where you tell yourself: Any racing game can probably offer a 
 satisfying game play experience without theses common features. Big Rigs cant. Because of its 
 lack of physics, its possible to make your rig accelerate forwards or backwards until it reaches 
 ultimate speedsand come to a complete stop as soon as you release the gas. It sure can be fun 
 for a while, but chances are youll get tired and sick after a minute or two.
  There are two game modes to choose from when playing Big Rigs: Custom Race, and Random Race. The 
 Custom Race mode lets you create a personalised challenge by choosing from four rigs and five levels, 
 leaving you a wide variety of over 16 different challenges, considering choosing one of the five 
 levels will cause the game to crash, and fill up your RAM since the Carz. exe processus (Big Rigs) 
 wont shut itself when the game is closed.
  When you begin a race, what is hard to consider as a game will react in two comepltely different 
 and random ways. First, if youre lucky, your opponents car wont budge, leaving you the possibility 
 to explore one of the four levels at your disposition. Freeroaming proved itself as being a great 
 fun in the past few yearsits actually impossible to have fun while exploring Big Rigs ugly looking 
 and poorly designed levels. The other possible way for the game to react when you start a race 
 is to display the rewarding Youre Winner!!! screen. If you ever manage to start a race (installing 
 the patch might get the opponents poor AI to drive around) youll have to quikly get through every 
 single checkpoint before crossing the finish line, and once again be rewarded without the Youre 
 Winner!!! screen. The graphic and sound part is where Big Rigs does worst (does it?) its completely 
 broken. 3D models and environements look blocky, while textures are blurred and completely lacking 
 detail. All the game as to offer as sound is wella single and painfull looping track andwellno 
 sound effects at all.
  
  Ultimatly, Big Rigs isnt even worth a bargain bin. Unless you need to buy a present to a retarded 
 animal baby, the only valuable reason to own this game is to be ashamed of yourself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf-Man2006
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  I have seen some bad eggs in the VG world, but this is the worst game ever made, bar none. You 
 basically drive a truck around a track and every single time you win. Any kid who complains about 
 not winning all the time will not enjoy this game due to its frightful and major bugs. More importantly 
 the truck barely moves. This game is the Manos of games (good thing if you never heard of Manos: 
 The Hands of Fate ) , anything that you'd expect to turn out of control is in there. Some people 
 buy this for the sake of getting a good laugh at clipping errors (I am one of them, but I rather 
 want to watch them on youtube. com than actually playing BR) .
  
  The positives is that this can be used as a torturous device for serial killers. Also, this can 
 be a gorgeous gift for your family, friends, neighbors, and your girlfriend. This shows how much 
 you care for them.
  
  P. S Stellar Stone is bankrupt as far as I know, I am still trying to find out why so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickKangWilson
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 30, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I begin my review with these words: This game makes True Crime: Streets of LA look like Game of 
 the Year. Although I have nothing against True Crime (infact, its one of my all-time favourites) , 
 it did have a multitude bugs including poor vehicle physics and problematic hit detection. However, 
 this game, well if you can call it a Game , has the same problems, only 9xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx times 
 worse. Lets start with the interface. The menu is a bland background of faded cars, CARS, even 
 though the game lacks them completely, driving or otherwise. The menu buttons like Race, options 
 etc. are written in an ugly orange font. There are two race types. Race and Custom Race . There 
 isn't anything different in the two game modes. In both the modes, you choose 5, ugly and uninspired 
 trucks. It doesn't matter what you choose; they all have the same speeds and Handling (The reason 
 why I put next to handling will be revealed) . Then you get get 5 boring tracks to play (4, since 
 the fifth one crashes the game if you attempt to start it) . And when you start the race, in that 
 very second you will see that your opponents HAVE NO AI ! Yes, no AI , so they won't budge. The 
 truck you choose, regardless of which one you pick, wil accelerate at an alarmingly at an alarmingly 
 fast speed for a truck. You can also do a donut at a perfect 90 degree reverse. The speed goes 
 over 900 mph (And the speedometer needle crazily spins around the gauge) and sounds like a star 
 fighter taking off  and stops suddenly the moment you release 
 the brake/reverse button. It doesn't matter where you drive; away from the checkpoint, climbing 
 up the nearly-vertical hills into the nothingness void (Yes, without hit detection and physics) , 
 no matter what you do, if you reach the final checkpoint front or behind it, you will win with 
 the infamous You're Winner screen. Come on, Stellar Stone may be a russian company, but can't they 
 get the phrase You're the Winner or somthing else in correct english ?? I've seen amateurs release 
 better games on the internet than this !! Now, there is a patch that fixes the 5th map but is not 
 worth downloading. This patch also adds the AI to the opponents, although they wil stop just before 
 reaching the end checkpoint. Meaning that still, invariably, You're Winner. This game probably 
 took a week to make. Luckily, Im not the loser who brought this game, my pal did. It's currently 
 being sold for $2 in whichever victimized shop it is still left in. Even $2 is a a HUUUUUUUUUUUGE 
 rip-off considering what much cooler things you can buy with the money.
  
  P. S- How did you like my icon of the guy giving the other a Matrix-Like kick ? I made it myself 
 using Easy Toon 3.0 Open Source and Free ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shower_Curtain
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 23, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  The game is... Lets just say broken... You ALWAYS win the races... You can drive 500 mph backwards.... You 
 can drive over mountains at 90 miles per hour and drive on the clouds... The game was made a HP 
 computer in 25 minutes... If you wanna play a game that doesn't function you may want to look into 
 this... And u can probably get 5 dollars for even taking the game.... since i doubt anyone would 
 wanna have someone to pay for it. I personally think that the people who made this game were on 
 drugs... Its the worst game ever created in video gaming history. If you ever see it at a garage 
 sale for free just take it and break it so there are less big rigs on this earth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YeOldeBowser
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  What do you get when you take a mediocre trucking game, and break, bust, and rip it apart until 
 it's so broken that it's nearly unplayable? This. That's right. Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing 
 is famous for a reason: it's pathetic. So pathetic, that it will go down as one of the worst games 
 in history.
  
  Let me start with the graphics. The textures are some of the worst in any game, let alone PC games. 
 For example, the backlights on your truck appear to be floating in the air behind you as you drive. 
 To add on to this, the sound is horrible as well. So at first, the game is already bad to just 
 experience.
  
  Next, the gameplay. Although five stages are available, only four work, because the fifth one always 
 seems to crash. But to real gameplay, your opponent doesn't even move. No matter what you do. More 
 stupid bugs to this disastrous scheme are available as well, like being able to go through scenery, 
 being able to back up at 500 MPH then go down to 0 in a numer of seconds, and being able to fly 
 off the stage and bounce up and down. Yeah.
  
  I was actually shocked how bad it was and enjoyed it the first time I played it. Enjoyed it for 
 about three minutes. It gets boring and stupid fast. Even a retarded truck driver can make something 
 better than this. At least the disc makes a good coaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkzkxkzzk
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 19, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  Have you ever wished there was a broken glitch filled piece of garbage that involved driving around 
 a simple map with no hit detection, AI, or physics? if so then this is the game for you Mr. Stupidest 
 person ever! The n00bs at steller stone made a couple of badly constructed map structures chock 
 full of texture glitches, then threw a few protocols on and released it. that's it. It's not even 
 worthy of being called a game. It's more like a demo or a beta test. A really REALLY bad one too 
 i might add. Do yourself a favor and never buy this game. Even a penny is too much for it. I can 
 say without a doubt in my mind that its out of print status is fully justified. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAMEFREAK006
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Its not often that we as gamers are given such an opportunity to play a game thats well... perfect. 
 First of all the graphics. They are by far the most advanced graphics seen ever on any console 
 or PC. The textures and photo realistic truck models bring this game to life... literally! The game 
 is never brutally hard, but never easy. The A. I brings a constant challenge as they can even take 
 shortcuts. The sound effects and music are unmatched by any game ever. Big Rigs is the greatest 
 thing to ever happen to gamers, and even society! Play this game, because it will stick to you 
 the minute you pop in the disc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAGIC_GUMBALL
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  okay, first of all, i dont even think the gamemakers tried.
  second, i think my score is actually very generous because i gave it .5 more points than it should 
 have because it at least has some gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: horrible. you're not carrying cargo as the back of the box said.
  you always win. the 
 computer never moves.
  ever. giving it no challenge whatsoever.
  you can also drive off of landscapes that you ride on, leading you to nowhere.
  there are five 
 landscapes that you drive on that are ugly.
  the fifth one NEVER works.
  trust me.
  ive tried.
  There are four cars that look alike, and have almost no difference.
  
  Graphics: 
 Also horrible. sometimes, you can see through everything.
  also, you can GO through everything.
  
  Sound: the only song is this techno looping thing that 
 gets annoying after a while.
  
  Value: this game is worth nothing.
  its not even worth getting it for free.
  
  Tilt: No main story or anything.
  unlike the box 
 said : (
  
  this game is not woth getting, and dont play it.
  if you do get it, don't say i didn't warn you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: predo124
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 13, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Most people would probably describe this game as horrible or worst game ever but think about it, 
 what if the game was designed so that you COULD glitch into every single thing in the game's world, 
 so that you could have fun driving through bridges! it is almost impossible to think positive about 
 this game, but honestly, why else would you publish a game like this? Mabye they made it so that 
 amatuer gamers could have easy access to its codes to manipulate it! or mabye they made it so that 
 you can easily make mods for it to fix this stuff, who knows, but all i know is that you should 
 never buy this game if you dont absolutely LOVE glitching into every single thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopsmith111
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 13, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  In the literal 4 minutes I played Big Rigs I was actually entertained by the amazing problems this 
 game has to offer. Not only does it seem like this game wasn't tested by anyone, but half the programmers 
 must have been drunk for the entirety of the project. Which brings me back to the question of did 
 they even try? A game that needs a patch just to have some sort of race in this so called racing 
 title just should be killed and never spoken again by anyone. Not only is Big Rigs not recommended 
 from me to anyone seeking more than a good laugh at the horrific problems, but I feel sorry to 
 those who bought this game early thinking it would be decent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vladx12
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  I know that there are things... That are absolutly awefull in this world...
  After many horrible things like...9/11, Hurricane katrina, Kevin federline, Paris hilton...
  Big 
 rigs... can be simply described as: The thing god send to earth to punish mankind 
  
  That preety much concludes my review...
  But if you want an emotional scar on your soul for all 
 eternaty... please... by all means... buy this game...
  
  For the rest of you... it shoul be considerd as : THE FORBIDAN GAME! 
  
  Big rigs is a scar 
 in gaming history, and it shell take its rightfull place with atari's E. T and superman 64...
  
  {DO NOT BUT THIS GAME UNLESS YOU ARE MENTALY RETARDED!} 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forgiven_beast
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 8, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS THE BIGGEST LOAD OF CRAP I'VE EVER PLAYED AND I HAVE PLAYED TRUCKLOADS AND TRUCKLOADS 
 OF MEANINGLESS CRAP. I MEAN ASIDE FROM THE IMPOSSIBLE REVERSE SPEED, WHICH TOPPED 11000 MPH, AND FUKKED 
 UP GAMEPLAY I WOULD SAY IT WAS NOT THAT BAD BUT I CAN GO THROUGH SOLID WALLS AS IF I WAS IMMENSIBLE 
 AND I CAN EVEN FALL THROUGH A SOLID BRIDGE AND GO UP MOUNTAINS AND DISAPPEAR INTO NOTHINGNESS. THEN 
 EVERY TIME I WIN A GAME, WHICH IS EVEN EASY FOR A PROTOZOAN, I GET PRESENTED WITH HORRIBLE GRAMMAR (YOU'RE 
 WINNER) AND SO U GET WAT I MEAN SO NOW IM GONNA ACT INSANLY OUF UOAFOUDAFHVDZIUV AGVAO UIA OVBA 
 AVH AUDVHHA UAVDOUVHAU AU UUG UB CTRE TG OG GGT GT U F8 YJHGHJH HGF GT D FRD FG G HVC H HFD T YHGU 
 GVV F HHG GH GGJ FYHF FYG FGV GVFFTYFVV JBHBVFG HVBHB HJFFG JBVHGHFH GHJBG JHGHH GJB JVJ VHJGJGVCHGHJH 
 HHH GFVU V G, R. HA HA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffykins8
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 7, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  game play : well u go through mountains and u fall through random bridges so my gamer instincts 
 say that thats not a good thing. Storyline:
  
  Uh.... say it again? story? what story? this game has no story. Big Rigs is supposed to be a racing 
 game based on big trucks that speed through various US trucking routes in some kind of effort to 
 deliver cargo before the competition gets there first -- or else the truck gets busted by the law. 
 At least, this is what the back of the game's box would have you believe. Let us make it very clear 
 that these statements are all horrible, horrible lies. thats all bull because you basicly do nothing 
 in this game so it sucks
  
  Learning Curve
  
  4 hours or More. thats because your too busy bowing your head in shame of playing this game to 
 figure out how to play this * slaps Stellar Stone Across the face again* im dissapointed....... 
 and i though superman for the N64 was bad
  
  Graphics
  
  Bad
  
  Gameplay
  
  Bad
  
  Sound
  
  Bad
  
  Value:
  
  this game cost like 2 bucks so its KINDA good 
 but i think this game is worth NOTHING CUZ IT SUCKS
  
  theres my long explaination of how much this game sucks hope you enjoyed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somethindumb
Rating: 1.3
Date: Aug 7, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Just how bad is Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing? It's as bad as your mind will allow you to comprehend. 
 - Alex Navarro, Gamespot
  
  Let me tell you how I think this game was thought up: Two drunks were in a bar. They were probably 
 so hammered they didn't know which way was up. They decided to have a contest to see who, in one 
 night, could make the worst game ever. The winner, of course created Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing. 
 This is a game where you win every time, will be congratulated by the immortal words you're winner 
 , can accelerate at impossible rates, can climb at 90 degree angles (still doing 150 mph) , can drive 
 off the literal edge of the map, where all the object can be driven right through, and the AI cars 
 don't even move. This is possibly THE WORST GAME EVER MADE. Playing this game through one race 
 through can and will give you a mind numbing headache. The only rewarding thing about thins game 
 is that it is so much fun to laugh at the sheer brokenness (brokenness?) of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noobberry
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 2, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Big Rigged is one of those crappy games you ever played that is... for god sakes, this game sucks.
 
  
  Graphics: looks like a big waste of cubes here god sakes, its broken solid. The game doesnt even 
 work at all while playing. Theres crappy sound in it too. There is no gameplay so basicly you will 
 be driving a pick up truck and drive while going off the map. This is the worse game ever played 
 in my whole life.!!!
  
  Buy or rent: DO NOT NEVER PLAY THIS GAME NOT ALL TIMES and o yeah don't even think about buying 
 or renting this game too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heppa7594
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jul 22, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  This game is in my mind one of the worst games ever that when being played has no point at all 
 unless you like seeing You're Winner every race. And guess what your not even racing a ccomputer 
 you just race to the end and dont race anything or anyone. You can take all day and still win. 
 The Truck dosen't even move during the game only the backround does. But this game isnt so bad 
 for the little children who love racing and winning. If you gave this game to a little child its 
 not so bad because they wouldn't no much of a point in playing video games as much as older people 
 do. Overall i wouldn't really reccemend this game to many people but wouldn't be to bad for a little 
 child 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cvan424
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 21, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  The first thing that is game so stupid that you have to ask yourself: what the heck is with developers!?!?... they 
 wanted to make worst game ever????... or they want to kill you in brain??? It seems that developers 
 are adolescent people or i don't know... maybe they were on high when they test it from bugs or 
 glitches... or they didn't even test it?!? The game is worst than beta games... its like game in 
 alpha stage that is released?!?!?! If you like to throw your money to play the worst game and laugh 
 at developers or maybe to have more junk CD-s in your collection. Then this is game for you. Conclusion: 
 You can still run it... and play . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamQur
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 20, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so lets say you sucked at every game you've ever played, you always got beaten, the difficutly 
 was too tough for you, even on Easy. Well now comes a game where even a monkey can beat, because 
 in Big Rigs: Over The Road Racing, you can never lose, seriously, it's impossible to lose, in fact 
 you can't even classify a difficulty for this game, it's that damn bad. There are a lot of things 
 in this game that makes it the worst game ever created, obviously your opponent having absolutly 
 no AI whasoever is laughable, but lets just say the opponent actually moved, it would still make 
 the game virtually impossible to play. One thing that is completly ridiculous is that there is 
 absolutly no collison detection at all, you can drive through anything you see, lamp posts, stop 
 signs, buildings, it's that bad. Plus when you're just about to drive over a bridge you fall underneath 
 it and drive vertically up mountains until you fall out of the map. What's also ridiculous about 
 this games is that when you hold the reverse key, you'll send your truck reversing to an infinte 
 speed, I've topped over 12,000 mph. Yes, that damn fast. So lets say that there were no bugs or 
 glitches, the game would still suck real bad, the handling of the trucks are poor, and the sound 
 is monotonous and the game is completly broken, do yourself a favor and don't play this game, sure 
 it may be a sick joke to give it to a friend, but this game is broken, completly broken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HUGE_Flavor
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 12, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  I recently tried playing this game because i wanted to see just how bad it is. To my dismay, it 
 turned out to beyond all definitions of crappyness. 1. There is no AI.
  
  2. There is no hit detection.
  
  3. The graphics are very bad quality
  
  4. It only has 
 4 tracks. (there are actually 5 but one of them has a glitch that doesn't let you race in it) .
 
  
  5. There are no physics.
  
  6. No online play.
  
  7. The movement is choppy.
  
  8. It doesn't even say You're the winner in proper English.
  
  9. It doesn't have cool 
 sound effects and music.
  
  10. The game will crash if you convert controls to the other semi too many times. So in a nutshell, 
 big rigs is nothing but driving around aimlessly through walls. Which is more boring than watching 
 paint dry. Honestly what were they thinking? I bet the people involved never took a single class 
 in game design before. How could the publisher possibly release this game when it wasn't even halfway 
 finished? They clearly didn't even play the game first. If people who don't know how to program 
 at all can get into the industry this easily, then it shows there is no justice in the world. Big 
 rigs is so bad that even calling it the worst game ever made (which it is) feels like an Understatement. 
 I could go on all night talking about how bad this game is and i still wouldn't get it off my chest. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erikvk
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 9, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Everything, absolutely everything, is wrong about this game. The sound, graphics, gameplay (if 
 there is any) , value (if it gets more value because it's the worst game ever) and tilt are all 
 0.0. But because I can't give this game (if you can call it that) a 0, so this horrible disc with 
 nothing good on it gets a 1.0. And that's actually very good compared to the quality of the game.
 
  Just never even think of buying this game, unless you're completely retarded, or you want to have 
 the worst game ever made.
  And, before I forget it, I give this game a Very Hard difficulty because you can't control the 
 Big Rig (if you can call that awful thing that) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerald699
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 6, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  So, In my Review Deck, i have shown you One Basic Term About This game, Big Rigs Over The Road, Racing. And 
 It will come on with a funny thing about the game.
  The Bad Of The Game:
  Everything, Driving off the roads, white screens, etc, etc
  The Good Of The Game:
  Absoulutely 
 Nothing but it's Lousiness is really good and its Lousy-Gamer-choice is really Good (hehe) .
  And, Big Rigs over the road racing may even have a problem sometimes which is almost EVERYTIME. And 
 The Normal Common Problems. Some listed below:
  Immediately win, etc move 1 second, they Say : You're Winner! .
  And Trucks aren't really the type 
 of vehicle, but some games from professianal game - creating company can make really fun, nice and 
 better than this of course.
  And You Can kind of get your screen a little whitened, and you can drive through buildings, etc, houses.
 
  And If You Ask Me Questions. Below are some FAQS. Your Question not there?? Then Read Forums.
  FaQs:
  Should i buy Big rigs?
  Answer: No. It is a boring total-let-down.
  If I Buy it Have 
 I Wasted Money?
  Answer: Yes, You Wasted money on a game not worth using your money for, or a game that turns you to 
 a rage, or wastes your time.
  Big rigs, A Game, Why Does It Whiten sometimes?
  Answer:
  There are 3 main reasons for Screen-Whitening.
  1.: Because Your Computer Graphics Card Is Not 
 Supported.
  2.: The Game Purposely Put it for fun, a reason why it is not nice.
  3.: Lag Makes Screen Whiten, Of Course.
  Tip FAQ:
  Online games,3 reasons for lag:
  Why am 
 i lagging, when my neighbour is playing just fine?
  1. Internet Connection.
  2. Too Many Servers/People.
  3. Computer Problem.
  
  Random Out Burst:
  Hey guys Big rigs 
 is a-No-use to buy Game. dont waste your money
  
  Thanks For Reading My Review, please comment.
  
  Sincerely,
  GameSpot Player, Gerald699. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Just a couple of months ago (maybe January of Februray) , I was at the store searching for a good 
 game in the bargain bin. No, not that game. No that game looks stupid. And then, I found it: Big 
 Rigs: Over The Road Racing . Wow. This game looks pimped-out. The price: $5? Wow, that's cheap. 
 So I asked my mom for this game, she said yes. Yay! Little did I know what atrocious atrocity I 
 was bringing home with me.
  
  OMG! When I played this game for the first time, I was disgusted. After I was done cramming my 
 mind with this cyberspace nightmare, I went outside and just stared at the sky for about 40 to 
 50 minutes, contemplating what I should do next. And then I made my decision. Before I tell you 
 what I did, I'll tell you a little about this game.....
  
  Two words define this game: IT SUCKS!!!!! You always win, you fall right through bridges like they 
 weren't even their, you can drive out of bounds, and when you win, the game says YOU'RE WINNER 
 ! That's s****y grammar. It should say You're a winner . That's ironic, because no matter how you 
 put it, you will always win. That caused two thoughts to pop into my brain: That's no fun if you 
 always win and also Their's no challenge if you're always going to win . Uhhhhh... god, this was 
 extremely painful (mentally and emotionally) to play this game.
  
  Anyways, now time to pick up where I left off. My decision was very subtle. I told my mom these 
 exact words, and I quote Mom... don't take this comment in any bad way towards yourself.... this 
 game wasn't a bargain.... IT WAS A F*****G MISTAKE TO EVEN GET!!!! So, the next day, we took the 
 game back to the store.... and guess what?! They took it back and I got a full refund. Awesome! 
 Now I feel like I didn't waste any money. After that, I tried to purge my memory of ever playing 
 this game. The bads in this game easily outweigh the goods. But then again, THERE'S NOTHING GOOD 
 IN THIS GAME!!!!! The only good thing with this game is that if you were unlucky like me to purchase 
 this game, and you feel exactly like me, then you know what to do with this: either return it to 
 the store and get your money back, or, throw this piece of s**t in the trash. I know one thing: 
 I feel so ashamed to have played this game. I'm scarred for life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhen_Var
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 25, 2007 4:48 am PT
Review:  Its Bad BAD BAD BAD! Terrible, Horrible any word negative would do even Cursing. 1337 Say what you 
 want! Its bad and you can change the fact! This game Brings the word Broken to the year 20202020.
 
  Worse then your mind can say it. No words can describe this game. You would have more fun throwing 
 the disc like a frisby and let your dog mark it or even ask your friend to Violate it. Throwing 
 it in the Trash wont be enough to show how bad it is. Sending it to hell couldn't even come close 
 to explaining the evil within this game. Enjoying this will only lead you to Insanity. Soon enough 
 you'll even buy the Barbie Games! (No offense to female gamers) and what? Play that and only that?! 
 Zombie's brains would just explode the world would end and if anything could possibly be worse 
 then its not something you can explain even in a Million years.
  
  This game is TERRIBLE Beyond comprehension and description. Nuff Said 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdrium2
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  The Good: you're always a winner; beautiful environment; super fast accelerate speed; extremely strong 
 gameplay; highly addictive
  
  The Bad: Warning, this game is very addictive that it will affect your life. Please avoid it at 
 all cost if you are still schooling.
  
  
  I have a girlfriend, she knows 
 what I like. Trucks, on my birthday, she bought me this game called Big Rigs : Over the Road Racing 
 . I was very thankful to her as this game is extremely hard to find. I was very crazy about this 
 game that time that I pushed her to the bed and kissed her hard till we broke up! But who cares? 
 I won't die without her, I will die without Big Rigs Over The Road Racing!!
  
  Gameplay - Madness! You get to drive a super fast truck and always win. You can drive up the hill, 
 even a 90 degrees hill (facing down) . And explore the whole map.
  
  Graphics - Beautiful as hell, nice environment, truck model. Sound - Nice background music, engine 
 sound.
  
  Overall - This is an addictive game, please avoid it if you are still schooling. Because you will 
 be hooked to this game and won't stop playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mes323
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 7, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  Well it was another average day at work. The shift before mine made a huge mess as per usual and 
 I was being charged with cleaning it up. While cleaning it up I found an old copy of big rigs in 
 a bin with some stale marshmallow peeps. Those peeps were pretty good, all in all I have to say 
 they were the best part of the experience. After eating the peeps and tired of cleaning other people's 
 **** up, I took the game and installed it on one of the display computers. (I work at a large office 
 supply/equipment retailer) . there weren't any customers around my department so I figured I had 
 at least 10-15 minutes before the manager realized I wasn't actually doing anything. I turned up 
 the speakers to hear the sound... but there wasn't any. I even minimized the game and tested the 
 volume to make sure it was working OK. It was, the music one of my co-workers loaded onto it played 
 just fine. There actually ISNT ANY SOUND!
  
  now while I was testing the sound, I expected the AI truck to have actually won the race already. 
 it didn't. In fact the AI truck didn't move at all.
  
  I then started driving just for the hell of it. after about a minute of driving through buildings, 
 over hills, and eventually off the map I had just about had it. It was then that I walked away, 
 found the manager, and decided that a night of doing useless things, putting ink in boxes, and 
 helping customers find things that don't exist was more fun than playing this game. that's right 
 DOING ACTUAL WORK IS MORE FUN THAN PLAYING THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: subrosian
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  Big Rigs has popularly become hyped as the worst game of all time, yet in reality it's far from 
 it. Don't get me wrong, this isn't a game, it's an unfinished piece of crap - it's essentially 
 the final thesis of a Digipen student - final only because he was expelled after creating something 
 so terrible.
  
  However - this does not deserve the worst game of all time tagline. Why? Big Rigs is innocent - 
 it's simply a crappy bargain bin PC game. No child has this game on their Christmas list, no one 
 was anticipating this title.
  
  Unlike shoddy arcade ports of Pac-Man on the Atari 2600, major flops like E. T., or the endless 
 piles of completely *unplayable* Gameboy games (such as Garfield) from back in the day, this game 
 didn't ruin any children's lives. It in fact, being so bad, almost becomes *good* - glitches love 
 to fall off levels and break the game - this one comes pre-broken. 
  
  So while this is terrible, it's far from the worst. Kids were *crying* on Christmas morning when 
 they discovered how horrible Garfield was on their Gameboy, no one cried over Big Rigs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabz_95
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  Stellar stone..! You already know by the company name that the games going to be rubbish.
  And GameMill Publishing! Man thats the most famous publisher in the world! Famous for awful games
 
  Ok so the graphics are horrfic. The landscapes and the car models are horrible and they are an 
 eyesore. If you are playing this try to avoid looking at the screen
  
  The gameplay in the game is awful. The "Big Rigs" are hard to control and have terrible game physics. 
 Basically a disaster.
  
  The game doesnt function well so its hard to actually drive in the game. Oh and the sounds are 
 very realistic! It sounds like your actually in the car! Not really
  
  Overall i think this is one of the worst games ever made and definitely buy it to make fun of it 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMeR_NuT
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game! The graphics are unbeliveable, the sound and music is astounding, and 
 the gameplay is top notch! Oh wait. We're not talking about God Of War 2? Then what are we talking 
 about? Big Rigs for the PC? O lord..........
  
  This is quiet possible one of the WORST games ever. The physics are so messed up. The big rigs 
 can drive up giant, 90 degree moutains! And when you get passed those, you can escape the game 
 world and drive in nothingness because there's no boundary! Also, when you drive on a bridge, your 
 truck falls right through like it's not even there! Also, building, lamposts, and everything else 
 is unsolid, allowing you to drive right through them! Along with all of that, your huge big rig 
 can go 0 to 60 in about 4 seconds, IN REVERSE. You can spin around in reverse at about a hundred 
 miles per hour like crazy as well.
  
  The competitors are useless. You'll win every single time. Also, after you win, you're presented 
 with horrible grammar, saying YOUR WINNER What the hell does your winner mean? I don't know about 
 you guys, but I always said You are a winner and not your winner . Very pathetic.
  
  Also, you can only choose between 4 trucks and 5 tracks, and that's it. WTF!?
  
  Finally, the 
 graphcis are just bad. Everything in the world is just all flat and bland, and the vehicles and 
 such are far from anything you could consider somewhat good looking. 
  
  All in all, this game is terrible. If you buy it, we will hunt you down because THIS GAME SHOULD 
 BE AVOIDED AT ALL COSTS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wima5ter-134
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 21, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  OMG!!!!!!!!! This game is amazing. Here is a wrappup:
  
  Graphics: None (well some, but nothing even good)
  
  Gameplay: you automatically win, the other 
 trucks don't move. You can drive through anything, the bridges don't work. There are 4 trucks and 
 4 tracks (the 5th did not work) The headlights wander off the truck?! Do I have to continue?
  
  Laws of Physics: the trucks can scale vertical mountains, go to speeds of infinity (in reverse??!?!?!?!) 
 and can go through houses, lampposts, and about anything else on the track
  
  Sound: none. no truck sounds, evironment sounds, or other sounds. Just lame techno music that could 
 win the stoopid music award.
  
  Grammer: When you win (you always do) a sign comes up saying YOUR WINNER: I've always said it You 
 are a winner or you're a winner but they made this GREAT game sooo, they must be right
  
  DO NOT GET THIS GAME, DONT EVEN RENT IT. IF YOU HAVE IT BURN IT!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franknight
Rating: 1
Date: May 19, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Well let's talk about a bad game for a change. I will talk about the few good things that I actually 
 found about the game (thought they become lacks when you really get into the game) .
  Let's look at the box: it say things like you will be chased by police for transporting cargo (surely 
 illegal) over many places and stuff like that. Actually the advertisement of the box is quite good. 
 You would guess this game is an average game for the looks of it. Well let's talk about the game 
 itself. Let's make a supposition you downloaded the patch right after you installed the game, which 
 is a good option. You will see that right after you start there is a truck besides you that will 
 be the only competitor. Luckily if you managed to install the patch well he will move and head 
 towards the end of the track. Well those are all the good things that I actually saw about this 
 game, now let's go to some of the things that make this game a monstrous malformation that does 
 not deserve to exist.
  
  In the first place, if you installed the patch right, the Ai opponent truck will stop nearing the 
 exit. This means that in this game you can't lose. On the other hand ,you can see that even when 
 you win the race the grammar of the words that pop out to design you as the winner of the race 
 are messed up. This will start making you feel dull.
  
  By the way, let's point something really bad (which is not apparent in the first place) which is 
 that: there are no real off-limits in the tracks and the structures that appear in the tracks are 
 virtually non-existent. This means that you can go right across every single structure in the track 
 without getting hit and that you can go off-limits of the track into a void, which i really don't 
 recommend doing.
  
  The music is really really repetitive and boring, to the point that it can drive you mad if you 
 play this game too much and moreover if you try to go off-limits, so for your well-being, avoid 
 playing this game in the first place. The designs for the trucks are very lame considering that 
 there is no cargo for the trucks and almost no textures in the designs of the game. The game has 
 5 tracks and only can be played a couple of times before complete boredom, the 5th track can't 
 be loaded due to a programming glitch of the actual game so don't even you dare to run it because 
 if you do this is what's going to happen: your computer will crash. I only advice to get this game 
 for two reasons: if you don't have any better game to play and you want to see the worst game of 
 history in action, or that you want to see how actually a game should not be made.
  
  On other words, do not put a cent on this game and move over to other games, because surely this 
 game will disappoint you as bad as a game can disappoint a human being. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morrowindeler
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  Could you make a game this bad well Stellar Stone has done it. They bring a sad attempt at bringing 
 a bad game to the light which I have had the pleasure to play. You may ask what do I know about 
 trucking games. I found this game along with Postal 2 in a discout bin at a elecronics store in 
 my town and I said outloud what godsend placed his game within my grasp. So I whipped out a 20$ 
 and bought the games. I was stellar knowing how sucky Big Rig was and Postal squared. I have never 
 in my god blessing of great handeye cordnation, and good sence for videogames have played a game 
 with this Lackluster of content. I ridiculous... Save your money unless you really want this game 
 you can look on Ebay ill be selling it so look for it on June 12 if you want it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnAwfulGamertag
Rating: 1
Date: May 4, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS WINNER
  
  Gameplay:
  THIS GAME IS WINNER
  
  Graphics:
  THIS GAME IS WINNER
  
  Sound:
  THIS GAME IS WINNER
  
  THIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNERTHIS GAME IS 
 WINNERTHIS GAME IS WINNER just kidding, it completely sucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapnzaba
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 22, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Tere i was, in my big rig, i was winning the race, the other folks were about two thousand feet 
 behind me, and i knew i was going to win. I could feel it in my lungs, my viens, my mind, my sould, 
 and more places, I just knew i would win. Then i could see about half a mile infront of me a bridge, 
 then after the bridge, the finish line, i looked behind me, they were far away, very far away, 
 i would win. In about 20 seconds i was only several feet in front of the bridge i kicked in the 
 power and then- i went through the bridge. I WAS IN A DITCH! I could still win if a backed up and 
 got up, then my big rig went right through the side of the hill. I was falling through the darkness, 
 oh no! it sounds like another sequel to kingdom hearts with sora falling to darkness with a big 
 rig, i would like a third game, but not with such a story line. I kept on falling and falling for 
 about 10 minutes and they won, i lost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sthadji
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 7, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  How bad is Big Rigs you ask? Personally, I'd prefer being shot in the foot than having to endure 
 one more hour of this game. Yes... It's THAT bad.
  
  Big Rigs is one of those games that you never thought you'd actually see released. It makes you 
 wonder, did a 10-year old make this game? And then you think to yourself, heck a 10-year old could 
 make a better game than this.
  
  Let's break this game down. The gameplay..... What gameplay? If you consider driving around, defying 
 the laws of physics, for absolutely no purpose, as 'gameplay' then yeah, sure, this game has the 
 best gameplay there is. But you better get your brain checked for any leaks. Sure, driving through 
 buildings, reversing at an infinite speed and climbing mountains as if they're straight road may 
 be fun in the beginning, but after a second you just want to head down to Stellar Stone and start 
 shooting everyone in there for making you go through the madness that is known as 'Big Rigs'. You 
 should even be allowed to sue for the mental instability caused by this game.
  
  The graphics.... Awesome. That is, if you're blind. This game makes your eyes bleed... Well, actually 
 I might be a little too harsh on the graphics of the game, but you'd still rather hit your head 
 on the wall.
  
  Sound... Again if you're deaf then the sound is bloody brilliant. In fact, if you are deaf consider 
 yourself lucky that you actually didn't have to listen to the 'Poop award-winning' music they put 
 in this game.
  
  Re-playability... This game is definitely re-playable if you like inflicting upon yourself mental 
 anguish. It will be torture playing the game once. Who, in his right mind, would want to play it 
 twice??
  
  Giving this game a 1 is definitely too much. If there was ever a game that deserved a negative 
 score then this is the one. It's one of those games where the developers ought to pay you in order 
 to play it... and big time. It's hard to imagine what the developers were actually thinking. They 
 were probably drunk from a party and they thought it would be nice to create a game that would 
 really hurt people and so they came up with 'Big Rigs' - a game where absolutely nothing makes 
 sense. So if you're looking for the best game ever, then you'd better keep looking. Because this 
 is the farthest you'll ever get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcloudstarfox
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 2, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I usually write very deep and informative reviews, but I just can't for this game because it isn't 
 a game. It just isn't anything really to say except that this game sucks.
  
  According to the box, you a trucker running from the law in your quest to deliver your load before 
 the cops stop you. If you can get past the squeeze, glory awaits. If you miss your chance though, 
 you will be heading to the big house. Just to reiderate Mr. Navarro, these are horriable, horriable 
 lies. This game is no more than your average, cheesy racer game, but it isn't even that because 
 the opponent doesn't move. You can wait all night, but he won't move an inch. That is because there 
 is no AI engine in the game, none! This game is buggy beyond belief. You can drive up cliffs, through 
 water, and through buildings in your diesel powered Peterbuilt, which we all know is the fastest 
 and most agile vehicle out there, to the point where it can defy physics. (note sarcasm)
  
  There are no physics in this game. Your truck can accelerate to infinity, adn stop on a dime. Not 
 even a Ferrari can do that, so how can a truck? And not only that, the graphics are horriable, 
 you can drive off the course, you can only choose from four trucks, and the game crashes to the 
 desktop when you choose the fifth track. Sometimes it would crash to my desktop on random, even 
 if I was in a race.
  
  There are no engine sounds, no enviornment sounds, just an annoying loopign techno track, which 
 is bound to make anyone kinfe themselves to death just to end the torture.
  
  I have a feeling that the creaters didn't even take half a second to look over what they have created. 
 heck, my dog **** better stuff than this game. In fact, I believe that this game is pure con artistry, 
 through and through. They lied about everything, and just left this broken game. All you do is 
 just finish, and you will always win, and the overdone YOUR WINNER screen is just a kick in the 
 nuts, if this game wasn't enough of a kick in the nuts to begin with. And they sold 10,000 copies 
 of this! Hell, I see compies of this dreck on the shelves in my local Meijer! So take Me and Mr. 
 Navarro's advice, and avoid this game at all costs. Sure you are curious, or think it could be 
 a gag gift, but all you are doing is taking time out of my life, as well as wncouraging this games 
 makers into believeing that they created a quality product. So buy Hard Truck: 18 Wheels of Steel 
 or 18 Wheels of Steel: Ped instead. And if you have a copy, burn it adn leave the ashes on the 
 developer's front doorstep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Link_77
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  There are so many good things a game can have and when you see it, you know it. This is especially 
 true for this game. This is the best game ever made if you ask me. Now lets see what makes Bigg 
 Riggs a WINNER.
  
  The gameplay in this is amazing. You have to transport illegal goods across the country in a Bigg 
 Rigg. You have to avoid cop cars, and other riggs trying to stop you. Play in over 200 missions 
 in Career mode, over 50 ours of gameplay. You are amazed by the amount you can store on a computer 
 disk. There is also an ausome secret level known as the white abyss 
  
  Graphics are absolutly stunning in this game. With over fifty different terrains that look so real 
 you think you are there. Every tree is statigily plased so you relized the realness. All the roads 
 look real too. Overall the graphics make the Xbox 360 + PS3 combined look like crap.
  
  Ones who care about sound will not be disapointed. The music is so Great choosing to make some 
 hit sounds that make you want to park your truck at a gas station and dance to the music. The sound 
 effects are good too. The roar of the big rig is so lifelike. When you crash into a car you jump 
 because you are amazed of the lifelike sound.
  
  This game is worth millions of dollars. You cant put a price tag on this game, this Game is like 
 All legend of Zeldas+ Halos+Gears of War+ Table tennis combined. Never mind this mabey all video 
 games in the world combined could even come close to this masterpiece.
  
  Overall THis is the best game ever. I recommend you and all of your friends to buy it right now. 
 And if you dont beilive me try it yourself. Dont belive that 1.0 Crap, i know. This game made My 
 grammar better too. I used to say You are a winner but after this game i now say You're Winner 
 
  
  Post review : Do NOT buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solidsnake10S
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  come on people, you have to admit that this is the most incredible piece of software to ever come 
 to these here united states. this game is simply amazing. what makes a game more awesome then trying 
 to cross a bridge and you just go right through it, Or having no graphical collision, or physics, 
 or sound effects, or even good grammar (i. e YOU'RE WINNER!) . The music is this game is awesome to, 
 hearing that baseball game song is the greatest thing ever. it will literally take you days to 
 find all the bigs in this game. not because they are hard to find but because there are so damn 
 many.
  
  this game is a prime example of how games should be made. now for the real review
  this game 
 is indeed awesome yes but for the wrong reasons. this game is awesome for being the biggest piece 
 of crap ever to be unleashed on the world. this just makes it funny to watch and make fun of like 
 i am now. p. s. if you buy this game Alex Navarro will kill you in your sleep for not listening 
 to him. (just kidding) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue_man
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 1, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  Seriously, the purpose of the game is to deliver illegal things. That's all good but uhh where 
 are these things to deliver . Well there aren't any so that's the purpose out the window. So now 
 it looks like a racing game. Ok so you're getting to the finish and you think to yourself OMG I 
 am so far ahead of that truck I think I'll wait a while. 5 minutes later
  
  Uhh what's wrong he isn't even near? So you go back and see what's wrong. Uhh he isn't moving? 
 So then you decide to roam around. And you drive can through anything, you even sometimes fall 
 through the floor and you go into nothingness if you go to far.
  
  Another odd part is there is no sound even NES games had sound. Clearly this game is really in 
 the past. But on the brighter note the graphics look ok minus glitches.
  
  Now you have finished roaming around and it says You're winner . Now there is two problems with 
 that. 1. It is grammatically wrong and 2. you didn't win as you were not competing.
  
  The only good part is that it's good for someone who thinks there a loser to know that big rig's 
 thinks that they are a winner.
  
  Problems with this game for children.
  
  1. They will think they can always win and get their way in life.
  2. That they can smuggle illegal 
 things.
  3. Grammar is not important.
  4. You don't need to do what you were told to do.
  5. You can go through walls and anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richie2k6
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 12, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Don't buy this game. Sorry, did I say game? I mean don't buy this.. thing. God have mercy what 
 did I do to deserve the right to witness this game. God. Please people, don't touch this game. 
 Shoot. I keep saying game. Sorry people, don't touch this thing. Because that's all it is. A thing. 
 In no way, shape or form is this contraption a game . If you think this thing is worth buying, 
 picture this. You're a truck with no cargo, racing another truck. That other truck, might I add, 
 does not move. Ever. You always win. And when you do? Congratulations! You're winner! Lord have 
 mercy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGamemannn
Rating: 1.2
Date: Mar 5, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Just how bad is big rigs? This bad:
  
  I have known games that have flaws (such as Brain Boost- of course) that suck hard and all, but 
 at least they are intended for a purpose.
  
  This one doesn't even make sense, like that fact that yo don't deliver anything. Or that there 
 is no time limit. And a lack of and sort of storyline.
  
  Just about everyone has labeled this as the worst game, and considering my scores (hopefuy games 
 aren't worse than this and if they are, see ya at the morgue) I think so too.
  
  This makes games like Brain Boost, Digimon, and even elf bowling look like master pieces.
  
 
  I honestly have no idea why anyone thinks this is any better than a 1.9.
  
  I HATE THE THING THAT SAYS YOU RE WINNER BECAUSE YOU ARE NOT.
  
  This is a sad game, and I 
 would like the creaters to be banned for life.
  
  This is such a sad game, that it doesn't even gie you any kind of satifaction of being a Winner 
 because you never really won. At all. You basically drive around i circles until you hit something 
 then.........
  
  YOU'RE WINNER...........
  
  I don't think so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8erboi796
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 4, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  this is not a game, this is one big bug/joke its broken in everyway possible and if u call this 
 a racing game its NOT u can have racing on this gmae but the other trucks wont move and + wheres 
 the cargo all truck need cargo, theres only about 3 or 4 trucks to choose from u cant unlock anything 
 u can go through bulidings that look like cardboard. music/sound.. crap. game crap. this game should 
 of stay in dovlepment for about 5-8 more months and it did that then i would given it an 8.0 but 
 this game gets 1.0 in fact it does not even desveres a 1.0 it deserves a 0.0
  
  overall DONT buy, rent or even look this crap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberZero104
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 1, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Oh. My. God. This has got to be one of the worst games I've ever played. One of my students in 
 middle school brought this game in, and when I got on the computer, he forced me to play it, because 
 he said it was the best game ever. Now that was the biggest mistake I've ever made, and here is 
 why this game is horrible.
  
  Gameplay: This is the first and worst part of Big Rigs. You can select up to four trucks, and up 
 to five tracks. Once you get in the game, the real terror begins. First, your opponent truck never 
 moves, which makes you win all the time. Second, once you cross a bridge, you fall through it. 
 Third, you go through everything in the track, making it an illusion. Fourth, your truck accelerates 
 faster and faster and faster, which is a really annoying glitch. Fifth, once you brake, and finally 
 stop, your truck spins around and around like a retard Last but not least, the winning screen, 
 and it's repetitive, because of your lazy opponent truck. Once you reach the finish line, the game 
 will show a trophy with three handles, and the words You're Winner! There is no such thing as a 
 trophy with three handles, and the winning sentence sounds crompletely wrong, which makes it the 
 worst winning screen in the history of video games. As a result, the gameplay in Big Rigs deserves 
 a major thumbs down.
  
  Graphics: Ugh, the graphics are also terrible. The truck models are all black, and the backlights 
 float off of them. Even the track design is pretty bad.
  
  Sound: The sound is mediocre at best. There are no sound effects in Big Rigs. At all. Instead, 
 the only sound is the horrific techno music, and it loops again and again.
  
  Value: Replay value? Oh, there is none.
  
  Tilt: Overall, Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing has 
 got to be one of the lamest games ever made. There are a ton of games better than this. Play Super 
 Mario, Zelda, Mega Man, Halo, or anything like that. Just stay away from this traffic jam at every 
 cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: driver64
Rating: 1.6
Date: Feb 26, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  You know, it makes me think of this game was deliberately designed to be this bad. I mean come 
 on, what kind of english is You're winner ? Not the kind I speak! I suppose the environments do 
 look average, but that most certainly does not make this game fun. The silly, repetitive soundtrack 
 just adds to the utter stupidity of this game. Ugh, I just can't emphasize enough how dumb this 
 game is, really, who would buy this game!? And what is with some of those silly reviews claiming 
 that this game is revolutionary or amazing , unless these reviews were a joke, then please, change 
 your mind, you're wrong about this game, it sucks, bad!
  
  IN CONCLUSION... DO NOT BUY THIS GAME, don't play it, don't look at it, don't think about it, don't 
 even smell it!
  There was NO time or dedication put in to making this game! Driver 64, when you win the game should 
 say: You're loser! (for playing this game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ss180
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is a severely underrated game. Many people, oblivious to Big Rigs' 
 (which from this point shall be referred to as BROTRR) irresistible charms, deem this game an utter 
 failure, a waste of money and time which could have been used to develop a real game . On the other 
 hand, we have the BROTRR fanatics, who literally worship the game and believe it to be worth it's 
 weight in gold. Not surprisingly, the majority of BROTRR supporters actually own the game, as opposed 
 to the haters, many of who simply trust GameSpot's (and other review sites) opinion without giving 
 their own any value. Sure, this review may be biased, but before dismissing this game based on 
 other people's opinions, please try it out for yourself.
  
  One of BROTRR's least-valued aspect are the graphics. I, personally, see nothing wrong with them 
 compared to other games of the era. The textures aren't half-bad; they actually look quite crisp. 
 The models are all easily distinguished, and there's an ample variety of buildings and other miscellaneous 
 props dispensed throughout the landscape. Some of the faults concerning graphics, however, break 
 the immersion considerably, such as boxy-looking trucks and some occasional glitches. But, then 
 again, BROTRR was released in 2003 and the graphics still hold up reasonably well. Other games 
 released at the time also had numerous glitches, so the ones found in this game can be forgiven.
 
  
  Sound is what can make or break a game, as usually immersion is based largely on it. The audio 
 in BROTRR consists of a short, looping techno track (which plays on some systems but not on others) , 
 which truthfully isn't half-bad. There are few sound effects, but they are well-done. It's not 
 the strongest aspect of this title, but it's passable.
  
  Gameplay; the meat of any game, and coincidentally, one of BROTRR's strongest aspects. The game 
 basically consists of racing from one point to the other while carrying illegal cargo and attempting 
 to avoid The Ultimate Traffic Stopper: A Police Roadblock. Unfortunately, while the last two points 
 failed to make the cut, the core racing aspect is solid. Your truck handles well, and while it's 
 not realistic by a long shot, these arcadey elements make the game actually fun, compared to drab 
 ultra-realistic racing simulators. Your opponent actually does not move - whether this is due to 
 a faulty game engine or sporadic AI is unknown. However, this is fixed in the patch.
  
  One of the most controversial aspects of the game is the ability to pass through solid objects 
 as if they were just ghostly mirages. Faulty clipping is the most cited reason for this anomaly, 
 but I tend to refer to it as innovation. Think of it this way; would you rather stick to the road 
 and play it safe or make your own shortcut by swerving into a building and blazing your own path? 
 This adds an extra layer of strategy, and makes each race a cunning test of endurance and wits. 
 Overall, an excellent decision by the development team.
  
  Finally, BROTRR is rewarding like no other game. Upon beating your opponent and crossing the finish 
 line, the infamous phrase YOU'RE WINNER shows up on the screen, delivering a moment of pure adrenaline 
 and ecstasy like no other. This is truly one of gaming's defining moments, and should not be missed 
 by anybody.
  
  Do yourself a favor, and pick this game up. At a measly five bucks, this is practically a steal. 
 BROTRR will deliver hours of enjoyment. Both a hilarious and unnervingly addicting game, Big Rigs 
 is sure to please.
  
  A few last words: please try out the game before dissing it. If you played it and have constructive 
 criticism, by all means express yourself. But don't try to force your opinion onto others, and 
 please accept that every game deserves to be liked, no matter how bad it may seem to you. Finally, 
 try to enjoy the game as it was meant to be. Just forget about all the negative publicity, and 
 have fun. ;)
  
  YOU'RE WINNER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madman608
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 20, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Big Rigs over the Road Racing is what happens when you mix up a team of inexperienced, unprofessional, 
 idiotic excuses of game developers, and let them try and make a game. The results are a sickening 
 pile of filth that has not even seemed to be tested before release. The fact that people actually 
 had to pay cash, actual money, to try this game out is horrific. Stellar Stone should be hanged 
 for even releasing this game the way it is, because a usual video game should never turn out this 
 ridiculous. I'm dead serious here people.
  
  Just the look of this game makes me want to puke. This game would have been better off on the Super 
 Nintendo, because a side from it being 3D, it looks like complete and utter crap. It seems to me 
 that this would still look horrible with Stellar Stone in command, even on a SNES. Do you know 
 why? Because when we consider how the graphics look in this game, it appears that Stellar Stone 
 doesn't give a rat's ass how this game looks at all.
  
  As far as Stellar Stone is concerned, this is a racing game. This thinking is totally incorrect. 
 The opposition doesn't even move from its starting position at all. There is no challenge in this 
 game, since there is nothing that can even collide with your vehicle, as there is no collision 
 detection in the game's scripted coordinates. If there is no challenge in racing, then it is not 
 even considered a race at all. There is no point in even trying if you know youre going to win 
 every single time anyway. Stellar Stone's failure at game design does not amuse me at all.
  
  There are so many more problems with this game, that it's unbelievable how such a game could 
 come to existence. One of the map's in the game doe's not even load up. You are also free to drive 
 where ever you like in this game, even off the actual end of the map. Even worse is that your vehicle 
 handles very unrealistically. Holding down reverse for a couple of seconds can launch you into 
 what seems to be light speed, which is extremely faster then just regular acceleration itself. 
 Another problem is that your vehicle does not react to gravity at all, and has no physics. It will 
 never lift off the ground, and it can drive up steep mountains as if it were nothing. You would 
 have to be a retarded crack baby to enjoy this game, because no human can have this bad of a taste 
 to actually enjoy this game.
  
  This game is just an example of how insanely horrible a game can be. In fact, this game is so bad, 
 that it just sounds like Stellar Stone made this game for the money. You can't even find a game 
 on a movie this bad. That has to be the only reason why this game sucks so freaking bad... I advise 
 that you don't even let this game in your sights - it's just too much of a disgrace to even look 
 at. May Stellar Stone rot in hell for tempering with the awesome power of Video Game Design like 
 a play toy.
  
  Before I close this review, I would just like to say that this game gets the lowest grade because 
 not enough effort was put into this game to even raise it at least one point higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suicidal_Healer
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 20, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Oh dear god, where do i begin.... How come I can't give this game a zero, this doesn't even qualify 
 as a game, more like a simulation in suck. And if it was for that purpose, it'd get a 10, but no, 
 the classified this as a game, so.... yeah, it just plain is broken.... YOU'RE WINNER!!! I feel 
 the same way as the GS employee after playing this game, I just want to jump into a jet engine 
 and hope I die... sigh, sadly, there are too many GOOD games that are coming out soon that I want 
 to play, so it will have to wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thorgen
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  I saw this game in my local store and decided to buy It, I thought hey it's worth a try. Turns 
 out this game is really fun to play. The graphics may not be the best but hey the game still runs 
 and the AI is really fun to race against. I'M THE WINNER!!! This game rocked and I will still keep 
 on playing it for years to come. So if you want to be a Winner too then buy this game. I hope that 
 Stellar Stone and Game Mill Publishing keep on releasing gems like this to keep everyone happy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo9898_98
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 14, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  Here we have the biggest waste of hard drive space of all time. I can't even understand why a game 
 like this was released. There is NOTHING good about this game. A total waste of time and hard drive 
 space. Your truck is invincible and just drives through everything at the speed of sound. No sound, 
 no NOTHING. I could make a better game with my eyes closed. What makes me even more confused is 
 how this company even exists, I'm surprised there was no legal actions against this game, because 
 this is a complete pathetic joke. Don't buy this. If you see it, put it behind all the other games, 
 or throw it on the floor or SOMETHING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kikouken
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 2, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I don't know. I don't know why they made this game .I don't know why they thought of something 
 like this. I don't know why this company publishes games. I don't know why I would wanna drive 
 a truck around the place. I don't know why I would want to drive a truck through a wall. I don't 
 know why I would wanna drive up a hill with a truck. But for some reason this game makes you do 
 all of that. Jesus lord. This game was so bad I had a sick feeling to my stomach. I was going to 
 cry or something. I felt ill. This game is almost as bad as Trigger Man, or, E. T. i don't know 
 what the heck to say about this amazingly miserable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shuyin2256
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 2, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is one game thats hard to describe though words like broken and trash come to mind. Aside 
 from all the glichs and bugs, the game is just not fun. I don't know why the ESRB would even waste 
 time giving it a E for everyone when it should be a NP for not playable . Gameplay: Broken. You 
 laugh for 5 minutes and then you start to cry.
  
  Worth the Money: If Stellar Stone paid be a million dollars to go through the game to test for 
 bugs, I would run away screaming the second the game booted up.
  
  Replayable?: Would you even want to play it a first time, let alone a second?
  
  Overall: I 
 would give it a .5 but a can't so a 1 will suffice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoodContributor
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  This is Big Rigs. Let me hear you say it. No say it louder, Young'un.
  Big Rigs is an astounding success. Why? Because it delievers. It delievers hotter and faster then 
 your best pizza guy. The graphics are literally JUBILLEE ENTICING. The gameplay is nothing short 
 of cutting the wall of China ASUNDER. This game has a great sense of humor and you will not be 
 disappointed. Everything including the glitches are actually PURPOSIVE. They have been placed by 
 top-notch developers to provide the greatest amount of gaming goodness and such. Everything is 
 meticulously planned and executed with the utmost virtuosity. If you're a fan of revolutions you'll 
 love this game. Buy it immediately and get ready for inexplicable joy! You're winner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_chewbacca
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  First off, Big Rigs is just plain amazing from start to finish. As soon as you start the game, 
 you will be set in a trance and be blown away with the sheer brilliance in the gameplay, combined 
 with downright unbelieveable and breathtaking visuals that put the ps3 to shame. Big Rigs is a 
 technological breakthrough: the amazing visuals play with no slow downs and runs at 80 frames per 
 second, and the funny part is, there are absolutely no load times in the game. The gameplay is 
 fresh and innovative and will keep you pinned to your keyboard for hours. You will sometimes stop 
 breathing while you play, just from pure shock at the games graphics. The soundtrack for Big Rigs 
 is also great. The sound effects are beautifully composed in Dolby Digital 5.1 and greatly surpass 
 even the sound effects from movie theaters.
  
  Big Rigs also has incredible replay value that will keep you playing even after you beat the game 
 (if you even do, it has over 1000 hours of gameplay.)
  How all this is crammed into a small cd will keep you wondering and marvelling at the awe shocking 
 technology that was greatly utilized by Stellar Stone Production Studios.
  
  All together, Big Rigs is possibly the real halo killer and will make you say Gears of who? This 
 is a game you cannot miss.
  [this review should not be taken seriously, if it is, you sir are a joke.] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dainja_Cat
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 22, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Just how bad can a game get... this bad. It is so horrible, no music, no nothing. I have no idea 
 why they would even release this piece of junk unless they got held a gunpoint and were forced 
 to release this game prematurely. This game stinks up the house. You can drive through anything, 
 go forward at light speed, stop on a dime which is completely unrealistic and backup in perfect 
 doughnuts and go amazingly fast for even any car nowadays. You can't even drive on bridges for 
 crap sakes!!!!!!!! And for that matter you can't even run into a perfect 90 degree wall. When you 
 are racing your opponent, for some reason he can't move. When you drive off the edge of the map 
 there is no reset or anything that will take you back to the race, you can just keep on driving 
 into the empty abyss. When you win (which you will all the time) they can't even get the proper 
 grammer right for You're Winner! ... it's Your the Winner! .... or even You Won! ... how much worse 
 can it get, too bad it can't get any worse. Also, for a 2003 or 2004 game the graphics suck something 
 nasty. But hey, at least it's cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BraindeadRacr
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jan 1, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  Big Rigs - The hopefull cover of the box makes you think Dude, lets ram an state trooper with my 
 18-wheeler! . Riiight... I'll start of with the main problem - There aren't any Big Rigs , just 
 an.. Rig. The cabine of the Mack is all you'll get. About the crashes? Nope, the roads are deserted, 
 that even counts for the AI, who loves sitting infront of the starting line. I have no idea of 
 where to go with this review, as it'll end up giving it the worthy stamp of It sucks! . I'll simply 
 start with giving it an slight introduction.
  
  --INTRO --
  Ok, the intro. Well, heard enough yet? Or you wanna hear every single con about this whole damned 
 game?
  
  I suggest you right-click Review , and select an new browser. Click the video review, and watch 
 Alex Navarro, one of the most loyal and happy employees of GameSpot, getting frustrated, banging 
 his head on the table, silenced of the major crap rate of the game, bursting out of anger, wrecking 
 a can of PEPSI and walking out of the building - Fainting on street. Doesn't sound all too well, 
 right? I sorta saw an mirror in my case.
  
  I got this much frustrated, that i rebooted my PC, pulled the disk out and broke it in two. I played 
 a full 3 hours, over 5 days. It constantly glitched and froze during so. Just forget this... Read 
 onto Gameplay. It'll be short.
  
  --GAMEPLAY --
  The gameplay is... Well, uhh... You race, against yourself.
  Yep - Against yourself. The AI is 
 sadly enough ... dead. It will simply not move. Normal people call this retarded, i call it just 
 plain stupidity. You make a racing game, fitting the racing genre. There is not one game where 
 you race alone in the entire game.
  
  There are five different tracks, all featuring the same. They let you drive trough buildings, go 
 over mountains at 80mp/h and ... you win. There are no limits set on the map, so you can drive 
 off-road instantly and burst out into the blue hell , you can drive trough lampposts and pillars, 
 you can drive trough houses, and last but not least; Fall trough bridges, as there is no certain 
 gravity. The AI is sitting like a dumb toddler who's been set behind an 9 inch steering wheel who 
 tries to reach the gas-pedals and streets at the same time. Pointless simply said. There are also 
 five different trucks. Neither one of all five is an so called Big Rig , it's just the cabine, 
 or an delivery truck or an garbage truck. And that's it.
  
  --GRAPHICS --
  Please... I do not wanna say this. But i'll have to. The only thing that impressed me - Was the 
 sky. The clouds are nice. The vehicles in the other hand are glitched, looking bulky and have no 
 gravity - They fall, jump and climb steep hills at 80mph and gaining speed. And that's all i can 
 say. The envoirment is horrid too.
  
  You'll get pshysics glitches EVERYWHERE. And i mean, everywhere. Don't even dare to back-up. Your 
 game will crash.
  
  --SOUND --
  There no real sound. End of story!!
  
  --VALUE --
  Well, somehow this category is implied by this game. All i can tell you is: If there was value. 
 I would have named an number. And, sorry to say so - One try is already enough.
  
  --CONCLUSION --
  Wanna spend 2 bucks? Wanna annoy the livin' hell out of somebody who loves trucks? 
 Even for the most die hard trucker fans, no matter if you have an truck-stop in your garden: Don't 
 even bother getting it.
  
  Even if you've got it free. Don't waste your hard-disk space on this.
  I'm usually not harsh, 
 not even close it. But this game is an serious failure, an disgrace to the average gamer. I strongly 
 think that GameMill Publishing and Stellar Stone tried it like this;
  Let's make a game, and lets make a huge joke . I think their company names can be changed into 
 LameMill Publishing and Stellar Stone-age Games .
  
  One more time; Skip this game.
  
  -----RATINGS: -----
  -8.1 for one of the worst games ever, and thats my review packed in one
 
  -0.7 for making an game look like an hefty truckin' game, while it isn't even near
  +0.1 For one nice sky, that's all that impressed me.
  
  ==================1.1 ABYSMAL/LAME=============== 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qoakzmwisjxneud
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 30, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  reason why its good:
  
  1. its only $2
  2. the game sucks which makes it funny
  3. it is funny becaz it is so porely designed
  4. big maps and drive thru walls and over mountains 
 into thin air
  5. u can fly
  6. ur car can jump onto roofs then fall rite thru em.
  7. u will wanna keep playing caz u wont be able to stop laughing
  8. great graphics
  
  reasons 
 why its bad.
  1. no online
  2. no lan
  3. maps can get too big and u get lost.
  4. no mini map, i wound up in a forest.
  5. not enough missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMPACT_17
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  Okay people, lets put this in sarcasm form. (This game is absolutly amazing. The game run like nothing 
 before) BEEP! Incorrect! This game is absolutly not amazing and let me tell you why. There is no 
 sound except your truck. I only got 4 levels to work and they SUCK. Wee! I'm a ghost, I can go 
 through walls. Explains how the truck collides with objects on a map. You can watch it accelerate 
 so fast and so hard your speed moniter should brake. You can press and hold left or right and watch 
 your truck spin around and around in circles. You let go, and it magicly stops. You can ride on 
 a side of a mountain, without falling over and crashing. You can drive off into an endless buggy 
 part of a map like in Viper Racing. You always freaking win because your enemy falls asleep or 
 kills himself or something because he doesn't twitch. Your truck magicly disapears in some parts. 
 You don't ride on bridges. The game is not even close to realistic! You shouldn't pay any money 
 for this game. THEY should pay YOU A LOT of money for you to play. Wheres the zero button? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steelers777
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 25, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Right now, I wish I could make my entire 100-letter review one big Eeeww! , but, being a decent 
 gamer with decent standards, unlike Game Mill and Stellar Stone.
  After renting this game from game tap (Really good service, try it!) , I expected to have a little 
 fun with this game, but all it did was cause my laptop computer a giant ammount of suffering. I 
 couldn't even get the program to start, let alone get the peice of crap off my computer. Here is 
 some advice: if your friend tells you to try it, telling you it is stupid, do NOT do it.
  
  (Please recommend this review if you want to shove this game up the president of game Mills...) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vhuynh67
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 20, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  If you are here, then you might have seen the immense amount of reviews consisting of mainly 1.0 
 and 10 scores. 1.0= true 10= LIES!!. You don't believe me? Buy the stupid box of junk and waste 
 money yourself. Let's review the facts, shall we? 1. It sucks 2. It sucks 3. it sucks! I'm telling 
 you, the world is full of crap like this. If you could make the value of this game appear before 
 your eyes, you would look at something the size of a flea! Please, I have one request if you unfortunately 
 own this game. Drop this into a volcano, throw an atomic bomb in there, wait for it to blow, catch 
 it when it's flying into space, shoot it with a flamethrower, get an axe, and chop up the ashes 
 to more ashes, and finally, eat the ashes! It's a complete rip-off off for even $5.00!!!! BOTTOM 
 LINE: DON'T BUY THIS GAME, EVER!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamnut
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  So, losers, not exactly a WINNER, well with Big Rigs, you can be winner all you want. So lets start 
 off, Big rigs is very innovative, with it's innovative AI it stands out as a budget title. (ORLY?) 
 This game is a very good simulation with it's sweet physics, it's AWESOME graphics, also the transparent 
 houses are pretty cool, very innovative to put transparent houses in the game, never been done 
 before. This game deserves a award for best game ever.
  
  So if your those people who want to do some Big Riggage this crappy game *ahem* I mean perfect 
 game is right for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david465
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 20, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, what kind of a game is this?!?!?!?!!? First of all, there isn't any music, 2nd of all, 
 your racing an opponent that can't even move off of the starting line, and 3rd of all, it's not 
 possible to reverse going 600 km/h!!!!!!!!!
  Wow, this game is absolute cr**. Your truck can go right through any buildings or bridges you encounter, 
 you can reverse at a speed of more then 30 km/h (which is probably the max for 18-wheelers) , and 
 if you lift up your fingers from the gas button, you automatically come to a stop without having 
 to brake! What else can you do... oh yah, you can go 85 degrees up a mounting without the force 
 of gravity pushing you back down, and you can literally go straight of the map in big rigs. You 
 can just keep on driving straight of the map and nothing will happen. The only reason why you would 
 want to get this game is if you wanna laugh at it, or it's selling for 50 cents at Mcdonald's. 
 Wow, the developers of this game definitely didn't spend at least a month working on this game. 
 There is no difficulty in this game, because your racing an opposing truck that can't even get 
 off the finish line. So you can either reverse going 700 km/h to the finish line, or you can bash 
 your head against your computer screen saying Why God, WHY?!?!?!?! The learning curve is actually 
 average, but the only thing your learning in this game is mastering the countless flaws and glitches, 
 and how not to make a game. The gameplay is ok if your trying to figure out how not to make a game 
 and need a good laugh. The graphics are actually not that bad, but driving through anything that 
 is standing (such as houses, bridges, the opposing truck, trees, etc.) makes you ask yourself WTF 
 WERE THEY THINKING?!?! The value, as i said b4, is cr**, don't even pick up this game if it's free, 
 this game should be shot with a double barreled shotgun just because it exists. And the tilt is 
 ok, but the only problem is that you can drive 600 km/h, take your fingers away from the up button, 
 and your truck will stop dead. Overall, the only reason you should get this game is if your in 
 need of a good laugh, or your friends at gamespot forced you to review this game: ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genretik
Rating: 1.9
Date: Feb 5, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Heh, heh, heh... wow. This game is SO broken! It's so unbelievably broken, it's hard to describe 
 exactly how broken it is. I don't think it even classifies as a game.
  
  Graphics: Nice graphics... for 1997. Also, what's with the two floating lights following me around?
 
  
  Sound: What sound?
  
  Gameplay: Umm... you can drive up near-vertical cliff faces. And you can melt through bridges. 
 Need I say more?
  
  Tilt: If someone gave this game a good tilt, they'd need to be sent to an asylum.
  
  Value: 
 If you want to buy this game, don't buy it for the gameplay. Don't buy it for the story: there 
 is none. Buy it for the humor. It sucks SO much, it's funny. You know, the OMFG kind. Doing a backwards 
 donut with a rig at 100+ miles per hour is pretty funny. Otherwise, stay at least 100 miles away 
 from this game at all times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Younglink192
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 18, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Y'know, this game isn't ALL bad. The nice, loopy, jumpy music will have people thinking that the 
 person who made it tried. And if that person was a dead, deaf guy, with no eyes and no hands to 
 compose, then he succeeded. And the graphics are just AMAZING. If you can get over the fact that 
 the backlights are hanging about four feet from the big rig , and your truck jumps all over the 
 place. And the physics in the game are excellent. If the thing physics was based on was this game. 
 But, all jokes aside, if retards ruled the world, this game would've been game of the year. Take 
 Asteroids, and take away the graphics, you got Big Rigs. Take Pong and take away the sound, and 
 you got Big Rigs. Take Sonic the Hedgehog and take away the realness, and you got Rigs. If you 
 get this game, get it just to see how bad it really is. Drake is better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightningrealms
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 18, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  To imagine Big Rigs, take a truck. Take away its cargo. Equip it with a 10-times-the-speed-of-light 
 supercharger. Give it the best brakes in the world. That is your rig. Next your opponent: Draw 
 a rig on a piece of paper. Stick it on the start line. Stick it really hard so it doesn't move. 
 In fact, do that for the whole environment. Then, just imagine our planet. That is the level. THEN 
 imagine the universe as a great grey big blob to float spasmistically around in. I give you Big 
 Rigs, The worst game. EVER.
  Now to fill in the rest of the review. It has no physics at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZyPhEr318992
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I don't think I've ever played such a perfect game. Everyone who says it sucks are just jealous 
 of it's awesomeness. It's a must have for anyone! The AI cars are simply amazing and levels are 
 built and worked to perfection. The story is immersive and simply flawless. I could not wish for 
 a better game. This is the best game since Aqua Man Battle for Atlantis. I have played this game 
 for hundreds of hours. I am completely addicted to it, I pretyt much do nothing else. I can't get 
 enough of the action packed fun that this game delivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urban_mongol
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  You may read some bad reviews here and there, but Big Rigs is one of the best games out there. 
 Seriously, What other game allows you to accelerate to infinite speeds and stop immediately, move 
 through solid objects, listen to a great soundtrack, and choose from such a wide selection of entirely 
 unique trucks while racing against an opponent who can't move. Ever since I found this game in 
 my neighbors front yard buried under the Charred remains of Barbera Streisand CDs next to a copy 
 of Biodome, I haven't been able to tear myself away from my computer. This game is one in a million 
 and I would recommend it to anyone who believes this review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemesis10102
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  This is quite possibly the funniest game I have ever played. for one thing, when you start a race 
 it either says: YOU'RE WINNER!! or the computer racers don't even move..... When you actually start 
 playing you can go through the ground and through the buildings..... lol all the time when I play 
 this game. plus there are no boundries.... which you can go off the map. when you do, your truck 
 starts freakin out, moving up and down really fast, and glitchin out. the graphics pretty much 
 suck. unless you want to laugh your head off..... DO NOT buy this game.... don't even play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ass-shager
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  if there is one game to get, it's this. no challenges, you can go anywhere.... literally. 4 chioces 
 of viecles, yes thats reight, 4, i think. you start a race, and poof... you're winner. do spins 
 and stop instantly. hey if you don't believe me, watch the video review. the fact that you can 
 go through buildings and bridges really speaks for itself. the computer doesn't even try to beat 
 you, it just stays still. at least this game is modest. after playing this game. one might want 
 to do what the video reviwer did. play this now
  By the way this game sucks, destroy all copys of it now
  thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robot_mad1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  You people disgust me. For example..... I love halo 10/10............ Oh my god killzone is the 
 best 24,000,000/453. You people need to wake up and smell the bacon, mmmmmmmmmmmm bacon. If you 
 buy only 1 game this year make it BIG RIGS OVER THE ROAD RACING . First off lets sit down, have 
 a nice cup of tea, and talk about the wonderful immersive graphical world presented to you in this 
 lovely game of lovey doveyness.
  
  Graphics: The most detailed models of a truck on this sweet planet earth that we live on. The one 
 texture used on all the trucks is mind-blowingly fantastic. It's like your a real truck driver. 
 The wheels on a couple of these beautiful machines that transport cargo did not display, partially 
 because they were so well presented, that my computer needed a lie down, and to recharge it's batteries 
 many times. But i have only scratched the surface of this beautiful game. The environments are 
 cataclysmically amazing. First of all the single dark ,green texture that runs through the hillside 
 is astounding. It's great, especially when your driving up a 90 degree incline. And the fact that 
 there is no such thing as water means that your lorry is so magical it doesn't even care about 
 it. Absolutely outstanding i'm sure you will agree. Gameplay: This is probably the strongest part 
 of the game. This game has nailed the learning curve beautifully. For example, after playing for 
 what felt like 2 seconds i was already doing reverse 360's at 60mph. (Later that day I applied 
 for a job delivering the mail in a mail van. I was that good) . But the best part was, that the 
 game is so up to date in driving technology. The 2007 ''drive anywhere traction control system'' 
 was a key implementation into making this game fantastic. I was able to drive up the 85 degree 
 incline with no problems which seriously helped speed up the delivery, which brings me onto my 
 next topic of gameplay of amazingness. The purpose of the game is to deliver cargo to a certain 
 destination. This is fantastic. Especially because the other drivers don't move because they are 
 oustanded by the greatness of this game. I don't blame them because this game just makes my life 
 each time i play it.
  
  Sound: Because this game is so fantastic. There is none
  
  Conclusion: This is certainly in the running for game of the year 1756. No doubt about it. If i 
 do not find this under my christmas tree this year I will break down in tears and seriously think 
 about watching some geese having a fight because i like geese. They are geesey. Anyway this game 
 is the best thing since everything.
  
  
  
  
  
  p. s don't buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rosen22
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  I found it to be a jolly good romp, The gameplay is amazing, spinning about in your truck, yours 
 eye blood shot as you squint at the screen to see wether your on the track or you're out in the 
 middle of nowhere. It runs well on xp and most requirements will run it like a dream, 90 fps for 
 most of the game. outstanding artistry went into the game, i think they should make a sequel but 
 set it on the m60 and you play one of those obnoxious lorry drivers forcing people into early exits. 
 legendry!!
  like last of the summer wine. rolling down a hill in a tin bath for laughs on the bbc has never 
 been beat. the game itself though is actually fun. move aside mother trucker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgkegngntv
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 1, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  is this a game of course not this is the crapiest game i ever seen in my life i mean there are 
 way to many glitches to borrrrrrrring the graphics sucks the gameplay dont even pay 10 bucks for 
 this not even 1 buck save your cash and buy a different game this game is the worst game that it 
 shouldnt be even out or real you only drive a truck go around find glitches and thats it its not 
 even worth to pay and not even worth 1 cent so keep your hard earned cash and pay a different truck 
 game i give it an abysmal.
  look here dumbassess look at not also gs gamers and everything else review this is the crapiest 
 game all you do is drive and thats it if you give it a 10 then your screwed this dosnt even deserve 
 a 10 if i could go lower i would give it a 0 out of 10. you winers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFactorInfinity
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  Big Rigs Over the Road Racing is so good that once you buy it, you are automatically a WINNER. 
 Why? Because of your greatness, the racer you race against doesn't even move, because of your WINNERNESS. 
 And when you win, YOU'RE WINNER! Sometimes, you don't even need to move, because YOU'RE WINNER 
 from the beginning!
  
  For one thing, this game has TRUCKS. And it was MADE BY RUSSIANS. HOW CAN YOU NOT BUY THIS GAME.
 
  
  If you hate this game, you're lying, because this game is great. It has amazing trucks that can 
 drive faster than the speed of light... BACKWARDS!
  They can also go over mountains and fly into THE FIFTH DIMENSION.
  
  There are five tracks, 
 but you should only consider 4 because the fifth is too awesome for your computer.
  
  Buy this game, and YOU'RE WINNER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackadder29861
Rating: 3.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Sure, it's not an excellent game. But there are positives to the game. Such as, no sound. What's 
 that you're saying? No sound is a bad thing? Ah, but on this game there is no annoying music distracting 
 you from the gameplay. And what a fun time is to be had playing. The other truck does'nt move, 
 so you're free to play the game at your own pace. There are no annoying obstacles to get in your 
 way. Ever wanted to drive a truck over a mountain, into the sinking sun and through a bleak, desolate, 
 white landscape with no end in sight? Then this game is for you.
  
  Your Winner! The words that flash up when you finish the course. Not only do those words convey 
 a sense of achievement, but the bad grammer will inspire many people to learn b3tt3r eNglISH loL. 
 Also, the golden trophy is very nice to look at, with the sun glinting off the shiny surface.
 
  
  All in all, it's a decent game, and will eat up a few minutes of your day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pw_99
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what the makers of this piece of garbage were thinking you go straight through walls 
 buildings and you go through bridges like they were never  
 Rigs is just not fun and when you back up you go 1,000 times fast. Its rideculus i've seen some 
 some bad games but this is the worst once you start racing you win every time because its not really 
 a  finally big rigs over the road racing is bad don't buy this game 
 its just not worth it. Buy other good truck games like monster trucks and others let me lay it down 
 one more time don't buy this game !!!!!!!!! Thanks:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volumesoxxs
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  While many people focused on the negative side of this game I focused on the positve things like 
 the cars actually move, you don't have to repair them and they are able to fly and ride on any 
 type of terrain. These Big Rigs are my dream cars and someday I hope to own one so i can fly through 
 the sky and glitch to a neiborhood near you. and must i say, the soundtrack was classic!!!! and 
 the terrible graphics showed a new side to gaming like no other game has seen before
  
  so gamespot, please notice that this game is a classic pc game and will forevor be played by me 
 on a computer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RidleyDragon
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  There is only so much you can say about this game that has not already been said. Anyone who decided 
 to give it a 10 review to be ironic should be ashamed of themselves, you're only promoting this 
 kind of dredge.
  
  I have to say that the game, if it worked, which it does not, would not be deep or uh.... what's 
 the word.... GOOD at all anyway. A game where you can race trucks in 5 different maps and that's 
 it just is not a good premise for a game, but that's not what makes the game so special.
  
  The execution of this lousy idea is the glitch-filled mess we have before us. There is no sensitivity 
 in the controls. There is no Wheel, Controller, or Joystick support. There is no customization 
 in the keyboard controls. There are no solid objects. There are no level boundaries. There is no 
 race, the other truck will not move. There is a broken level, that will crash your computer. There 
 are no sound effects. There is no fun to be had in this game.
  
  If you see this game in the bargain bin, do yourself a favor and spend that dollar on a Snickers 
 or something, it will be much, much better spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jannesulku
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is so WINNER that I'm facing difficulties finding the right words to describe it. I'll 
 put it like this:
  
  It's like eating candy, except the candy is a Big Rig, and the eating is replaced with driving 
 said Big Rig. And as we know, driving a Big Rig is so awesome that if you're a LOSER, your head 
 will explode by just looking at this masterpiece. Seriously, don't try that at home, LOSERs.
  
  Everything about this game is brilliant. Want excellent graphics? This game's got them. Want 
 superb gameplay? This is the right game for you. Want mind-blowing sounds? Oh baby, Big Rigs will 
 satisfy. So, let's sum it up: This game is awesome. And... well, that actually says it all. Go and 
 grab this game RIGHT NAO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S1ckle
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have played EVER. Best racing game hands down. The levels are highly 
 detailed, the graphics are amazing, and I can't tell you on how fun is the gameplay. It is at a 
 cheap price also! Whatever you do pick this game up today and be winner. Remember everyone is winner. 
 YOU'RE WINNER! This is one of the best games I have played EVER. Best racing game hands down. The 
 levels are highly detailed, the graphics are amazing, and I can't tell you on how fun is the gameplay. 
 It is at a cheap price also! Whatever you do pick this game up today and be winner. Remember everyone 
 is winner. YOU'RE WINNER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: talanto
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 17, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  The Italian mob? The Russian? I dont know but it must be one of them. Jesus there is no company 
 in earth that can not see or test their product. Stellar Stone? Oh yes jump to it and get the h***ll 
 out of my games galaxy. The funny thing is that some people may bought this 'game'.... poor guys...
 
  Now let's get serious. I had once try to make a pc game in my zx spectrum and I believe that it 
 was much better than this one! Anybody will hire me? I will be a new star in the industry! However 
 this game gived me a lesson.
  Do not do something before you test it two times. But I don; t think that the mob had that kind 
 of problems!
  It is a 100% a way to clean money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suggs_55
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 2, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that yes, I think that this game was released as a joke. Now onto the 
 review:
  
  Gameplay-Worst in a game ever. The opposing truck doesn't even move. So, whenever you race, YOU'RE 
 WINNER! That's one of the reasons I think this game is a joke. That's not even proper English. 
 This game completely ignores the laws of physics. If you go backwards and start to turn around 
 like some kind of carousel, you will keep going faster and faster infinitely. Then if you release 
 the controls, it stops. Not like in a another racing game (that actually follows the laws of physics) 
 such as NFS or GT, it stops immediately. The rig can magically drive through any object without 
 any damage. No lost speed, no damage on the truck no damage on the object you just drove through. 
 Lampposts, buildings, the non-moving LOSER truck, bridges, etc. The only object it doesn't drive 
 through is the mountains, which, are mostly 90&deg; angles. The rig has no problem driving up those 
 and not only doesn't lose speed while it is driving up the mountain, it can easily gain speed. 
 On the other side of the mountains is a borderless, grey, unfinished space. In there, the truck 
 starts flipping, rolling, moving up and down. If you try to go back to the other side of the 90&deg; 
 mountains, the truck basically starts having seizures. Graphics-Again, retarded. The buildings 
 look like they were finger painted by a kindergartner. On the road, odd bumps pop out that are 
 off-color. The rigs look like boxes. SunriseW12 looks like it has one axle, and all the rest look 
 gay also. And the taillights are completely messed up. They are not attached to the truck so they 
 look like orbs chasing it, and when you put the rig in reverse (possibly to accelerate past the 
 speed of light) the lights change colors from red to white. Sound-A perfect claim to backup my 
 statement that this game was released jokingly. There are no sound effects. No engine noise, no 
 squealing and (oh wait you stop instantly) no crash sound effects. (oh wait you drive through everything) 
 Simple put, NO sound effects.
  
  Unfortunately, there is something coming out of the speakers/headphones. It's an annoying techno 
 song that repeats itself after 4 or 5 (not kidding, not exaggerating) seconds. It never stops. 
 And, it is about the worst, most uncatchy beat possible. The song gets stuck in your head, and 
 I'd rather have a Chipmunks song stuck in my head. Worst thing about this song-you can't turn it 
 off.
  
  Value-No.
  
  Overall-1/10. I think it achieved it's goal, being the worst game ever published. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theintwowords
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 31, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I already knew this game was horrible, but it didn't really sink in until I actually got the game. 
 Thank god it was only 2 dollars at a garage sale. I bought it to check out just what got it such 
 a horrid score. I laughed so hard playing it. I cried, and I died. I couldn't stop for hours. People 
 thought I went crazy because even the next day I was laughing while I boarded the bus. From the 
 beginnning when you are the only truck to leave the starting line to when the screen reads You're 
 Winner! , it is the funniest thing I've ever seen! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PiantissimoJr
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 28, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Holy ****! This is the worst game ever! Everbody says it's good but they lie.
  You can't lose unless u die and leave the game on. It is jst way to easy. is just so bad. The grahics 
 r the worst. The backround dissipears sometimes. I really mean it when I say this is a waste of 
 time. Even if u spend ten seconds playing this game, it's a waste of time. Don't even rent it first. 
 Don't play it if it's free. Don't even play it if u get paid to do it If somebody says's it's good, 
 put them in a mental institution, FAST! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xx_XtReMe_xX
Rating: 1.3
Date: Oct 26, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Pretty funny, they couldnt even FINISH the game and still made it to the store shelves. Lets Review:
 
  -Go faster and over 1000km/h when going backwards
  -No obstacle is too steep
  -No obstacle has collision detection
  -AI DONT WORK AT ALL!
  -You're Winner
  -Box has a 18Wheeler 
 on it crashing into a car but there is no cars, even if there was the collision detection wouldnt 
 kick in!
  -BRIDGES DO NOT WORK AT ALL!!!!!!
  -Brake lights seem to Drift Off 
  -Horrible looping annoying music
  Good things:
  -Um...
  -Well...
  -Its like this...
  
 -Hmm...
  -Get to drive around carelessly and float in mid air beyond the border
  -YOURE ALWAYS A WINNER! WHICH MAKES EMOS HAPPY!
  -You spin me right round... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eskimo_taytay
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2006 11:30 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game since i got my PS1. The graphics were so amazing, i couldnt even 
 describe them. The most awsome part of the game is when the brake lights floated off the car. SO 
 REALISTIC!!! THe sound was so real, i mean what kinda big truck makes sound anyways. The gameplay 
 was so cool, i mean how often do you get to ride around in trucks (not in GTA or somethin like 
 that) . Totally worth the $50 i paid for it at the alley behind the crack house. The Best part of 
 the whole game was the fact that you could go faster in reverse than in forward, and the fact that 
 if you went back and left, you turn into this tornado thing that spins around and when you stop 
 it stops automatically!!!!! MAKE WAY FOR BIG RIGS 2: Out of this world!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincenzothepimp
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 19, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game just one time and i can tell that is the worst one i have ever played!!! 
 God that game sucks ass. It's waste of time and a waste of money. The only thing that is good.... 
 is..... euhmmmmm.... let me see.... just.... euhmmm....... **** NOTHING. ok, the graphic are so 
 bad that some time when you play some part of the background disapear and even the road disapear!!! 
 Plus, the game have no point at all and it's so boring, no action in this game!!! You only drive 
 in the worst ever made road and background! I have nothing else to same! OHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH YEAH!! 
 DONT BUY THIS GAME AND DONT EVER PLAY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth-Revan45
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  Story
  
  You are in an epic escape from the police, driving highly illegal goods through a City rapidly 
 swerving to avoid the cops firing guns, pedrestrians and all the city. HAHAHAHAHAHAHA! There is 
 no story you just drive, the box lied!
  
  Gameplay
  
  Wheather it is the endless speeds, lack of a physics engine, immobility of the opponet, or the 
 ghost ability of the trucks to pass through buildings, invisible walls and the bridge... the hillarity 
 of this un beta tested game is astounding. Immedeately after putting this game in your first thoughts 
 are WTF!?!?! The Box lied to me! .
  
  Controls
  
  I dont even care about this, the complete lack of reality in the truck speeds instanty zipping 
 to unimaginable speeds for an 18 wheeler, speeding up a hill like it was fired out of a canon in 
 space.
  
  Graphics
  
  This makes the Atari Jaguar look like the PS3, even the PS1's crappy Polygons in its early life 
 kill this game's poorly renderd enviroments, and the spasmatic attitude of the truck in The Invisible 
 Void bast the invisible wall, and passing directly through walls... good god did anyone do anything 
 with this game.
  
  Sound
  
  Beautiful, all I got was a constantly looping techno track.
  
  Replayability
  
  You will 
 play to keep laughing.
  
  Overall
  
  This game is just horrendous... avoid like the plauge unless you enjoy crap.
  
  Rent or Buy
 
  
  If you enjoy the crappy Cult Classic SO bad its Good stuff, you will love playing this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OverTheRoadRace
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  Big Rigs Over The Road Racing is an amazing concept, with even more amazing gameplay. Everything 
 in this game is so overwhelming it's so difficult just to describe how good it is.
  
  Let's start with the graphics. Usually I am not one to be swayed by the amount of polygons, but 
 from the moment I booted up Big Rigs my whole concept of realness began to collide with state-of-the-art 
 graphics. From every tree, to every house, to every rig this game is visually perfect. But don't 
 let graphics decide if you will get this game or not, there are just so many more qualities.
  
  Music lover you say? Well you won't be disappointed when you pick up Big Rigs, sometimes I 
 just leave the game on for hours listening to the in-game mix of techno music, it's that good. 
 Hell, even if you aren't a fan of techno you'll still love the original beats and rhythms that 
 Stellarstone designed. Don't even get me started on those sound effects. The roaring engine of 
 a two tonne rig put my heart into a new life, I will actually live longer from playing this game. 
 Every sound effect was carefully composed and I don't think Shaq himself could have done better.
 
  
  Now here's where it really counts, the gameplay. Imagine yourself driving one of four ten foot 
 rigs. Hauling illegal cargo through five hundred miles of American highway. It won't be that easy! 
 There are cops and other rigs trying to get you. As if that wasn't enough, you must single-handedly 
 overcome the Ultimate Traffic Stopper: A Police Roadblock!!! Really, the replayability is endless.
 
  
  For those storyline people, fear not because you were not forgotten. Right away Big Rigs throws 
 you into an immersive, everchanging, dog eat dog world where your friends are your enemies and 
 your only friends are your Rig and the finish line. It's an epic tale of love, hardship, compassion, 
 betrayal, deceit and rigs. A world where you're either WINNER, or loser. Seriously the storyline 
 here is well done, Final Fantasy just wishes to be as good as this.
  
  Conclusion, the grand finale. To put it simply this game made me want to live, it gave me love 
 for the first time ever in my life. If you can only buy one game, ever, make it this one. I can't 
 sit here typing any more, I have to go play some more Big Rigs Over The Road Racing! And remember, 
 this game is WINNER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TSIllusion
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Lets just say, this game is one of the tightest games I've ever played in my life. Reverse and 
 Win? come on, who else can think of such hacked tricks? 10 000 km/hr? tats not hard, esp when you 
 can just turn around and speed through the terrain with EASE.
  
  The greatest part about this game is... you can flip and fly through mid air! Considering you can 
 get bout 60mph on this game, its actually really hard to finish the races against everything else.
 
  
  YOU ARE WINNER!!!!! YOU ARE WINNER!!!!!!
  
  Now thats how I feel being a winner should be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Belfento
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 9, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing, is the most incomplete game on the market. Created with a budget 
 of under $15,000, it seems as if it was a beta test version, that was accidentally released. It 
 has no gameplay, no physics, no storyline, no challenge, and is completely devoid of anything you 
 could ever want in a video game.
  
  First off, this game is supposed to be about trucks racing across the country, hauling illegal 
 cargo, while avoiding police, or, at least that is what the box tells you. These are all lies. 
 There are no cops, there is no racing, and half the time, you do not have a trailer. After you 
 select your big rig, and choose one of the five maps, it is time to race. You, and your enemy, 
 will appear at the start, and the countdown begins. You start the race, and realize that your opponent 
 is nowhere to be found. There is no way he could have passed you, so you check behind, and notice 
 that your opponent has not left the starting line. That is right: Your opponent does not move; 
 he will just sit there for the entire duration of the race. The developers created a free patch 
 to make the opponent move, but he will drive, like, 15 MPH, and stop right before the finish line, 
 so you still win, every time.
  
  So, what happens when you win? You are shown a picture of this deformed, three-armed trophy, and 
 the amazingly translated phrase: YOU'RE WINNER ! No matter what happens, you will never lose; it 
 cannot be done. There is no loss screen, and it is impossible for the enemy truck to cross the 
 finish line. This game is sure to boost your self-esteem, since you will win virtually every race. 
 The only way you can not win (you cannot lose) , is to not finish the race. It's almost as if your 
 opponent does not show up, probably, because he knows how WINNER you are. Finally, the game has 
 trouble keeping track of whether or not you actually completed a lap, and, as a result, it will 
 confuse the starting line with the finish line (which are both the same) , so, even before you start, 
 YOU'RE WINNER !
  
  So, you keep driving, admiring the astounding Nintendo 64 graphics, and you realize, you are about 
 to crash into a building, but you have no time to slow down. No problem, because you will go right 
 through buildings, lampposts, your opponent , and any other solid object. They didn't forget to 
 add scenery, but, they might as well have, because, the objects in the game aren't really there.
 
  
  Now, it is time to go backwards. You start going in reverse, and notice that you are accelerating 
 as fast as you did going forward. After a couple of seconds, you are almost at max speed- oh, wait; 
 there is no max speed. You will be able to accelerate infinitely, and when it is time to stop, 
 simply release the reverse key, and you will come to a complete stop, instantly. You are approaching 
 a hill, and you cannot turn in time to avoid it. You will surely slow down to a stop- never mind; 
 you go straight up that vertical mountain at full speed. There is no physics engine, meaning that 
 inclines do not affect your speed, you can drive straight across water, and, as I mentioned earlier, 
 you can drive straight through anything that is not ground. You can even pass the level boundaries, 
 and go off into the grey abyss, where your truck will act as if it is having a seizure.
  
  There is no point in playing this game, after you've proven your WINNERness on all four maps. Wait, 
 didn't I say there was five maps? I did, but, the fourth map, does not work; no matter what you 
 do, you will always crash to the desktop when you select it. So, ironically, this game cannot be 
 beaten, unless, of course, you download a patch, which will fix the fourth course... by replacing 
 it with a clone of the first course. So, unless you want a good laugh, or you just need to feel 
 WINNER, there really is no point in playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mutant_vermin
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  When I first loaded this game up into my machine, the experience was so thrilling and awesome that 
 I fell to my knees and wept openly, praising and giving thanks unto God over and over, as His sending 
 of this wonderful creation is the best thing He has done since sending His son to die for our sins. 
 I sincerely believe this game to be the Second Coming, and the just will be separated from the 
 Unjust by the almighty wisdom of this wonderful, wonderful game. The incredible graphics, the heavenly 
 chords of its only song, (which Mozart would gladly sell his limbs for the right to call it his 
 own) The omnipotent Truck, which could transcend the boundaries of time and space, passing through 
 solid objects, travelling at Warp Speed across the endless, beautiful landscape. The opposition 
 would never move, letting you enjoy the simple awe and beauty of the world which your rig inhabits, 
 and letting you be a WINNER every time.
  
  It was two months later, (when I had had to drag myself away from what was still my first session, 
 which lasted easily over 3000 hours, because my eyeball was starting to bleed.) I heard the Voice. 
 It told me that anyone who had not experienced BIG RIGS was a non-WINNER, and that I, being a WINNER, 
 had to spread he message that BIG RIGS is the Truth and the Way. So here I am, telling you that 
 BIG RIGS is the Light of the Universe, and if you do not buy it, then you are an infidel.
  
  The WINNERS will rule the planet! Peace is at hand! All non-believers will be cast into the 
 sacrificial flames! Our time has come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryokinshin6x3
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Simply put this is one of the best puzzle games ever created. From its intense multiplayer modes 
 to the action packed campaign, Big Rigs will blow your mind. This games sports some of the best 
 graphics to date including shader model 3, realtime shadows, high dynamic range lighting and a 
 physics engine so realistic, it puts games lik fear and oblivion to shame. The 5.1 dolby digital 
 surround sound enabled by the game will keep u coming back to more big rigs trucking. The AI in 
 this game is untouched as well. Also this game is directX10 compatible so it will be able to use 
 features from your nxt gen graphic cards. nxt gen consoles will also be able to enjoy the joy of 
 bigs rigs over road racing in 2056.
  
  ths only downside of this puzzle game is that fact it will keep you wondering how someone could 
 make something so bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vextroid
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 29, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  Big Rigs Over The Road Racing.
  
  Is Total Garbage.
  
  Period.
  
  Avoid at al cost's. I dont think on shelves anymore. Which is good.
  
  A. I. = Non Exsistant.
 
  
  Gameplay = Drive a truck with no physics at all.
  
  Sound = none at all other then a repetitive techno track. (Which sucks) .
  
  Graphics = Its 
 in 3-D but that doesn't mean its good.
  
  Replayabilty = Shoudn't be played in the first place.
  
  The only plus side to this game is 
 that it makes a great gag gift. I mean the game itself is joke.
  
  Im sorry you had to go through reviewing that game Alex. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigRigsGuru
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Because you just found it! What can I say about Big Rigs that haven't been said before? From the 
 endless gaming area to the YOU'RE WINNER! screen, every feature in this game was crafted to the 
 sole intent of creating a game that would surpass everything known to Man!
  You can divide the video game industry in 2 parts: Before Big Rigs, and after Big Rigs. It introduced 
 new WINNER concepts that I'm sure even in 1000 years from now will still be considered groundbreaking!
 
  So what are you waiting for? Get Big Rigs NOW! Your life will improve significantly! I know mine 
 did, because ever since I experienced Big Rigs, I was WINNER!
  
  LONG LIVE STELL AND THE ALMIGHTY RIGS!
  
  LONG LIVE THE BROTRRERHOOD!
  
  YOU'RE WINNER! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectroCru
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Buy this game now, for It is the greatest creation of all time.
  Read below to see why!
  
  Graphics- 10/10- Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing has perfected a new way to present games, PERFECTLY, 
 this game is notorious for insanely lifelike graphics, and the graphics were all done by the master 
 of all things master-able: Stellar Stone! The graphics are like really looking at a small town 
 road with a WINNER Big Rigs driving through it backwards at infinite speeds! One word: AMAZING!
 
  
  Sound - 10/10 - Ah, the sound! This game has BY FAR the greatest music I have ever heard, and the 
 best part is it is only one song! Why would you want anything other then this amazing techno/rock/awesome 
 masterpiece! I say that the music really gets you pumped in a way very few games do, and it NEVER 
 gets repetitive; I played the game with volume FULL BLAST for 4 hours and didnt get sick of the 
 music, because the music is made of pure WIN and AWESOME. I would have gone longer but my computer 
 caught fire. Controls - 10/10 - The controls are extremely important in a game because without 
 awesome controls, you wouldn't be WINNER, and anyone can pick up the controls in a matter of minutes. 
 The controls are simple; The up arrow key makes the Big Rig go forward, the down arrow key and/or 
 the spacebar makes the big rig go backwards (at infinite speeds) , and the right and left keys make 
 the BIG RIG turn in their respected directions.
  
  Game play - 10/10 - The game play is the MOST important part of any game, and BROTRR has the best 
 darn game play of any game I've ever played!
  You have to dodge traffic, buildings and the ultimate truck stopper; a police road block, all while 
 out driving your pesky cargo-driving rival! And if you manage to beat your rival big rig to the 
 finish line you receive the famous 3 handled golden trophy and the message YOU'RE WINNER! now doesn't 
 that make you feel like you are the king of the world and/or the universe?
  
  Replay Value - 10/10 - Even after you have finished the engrossing story mode, there will be tons 
 to do, like; explore the terrain, see how fast you can go, see how quickly you can finish the races 
 and unlock the secret 4th level! But WARNING: People have been known to play this game until they 
 die of old age! Overall - WINNER/10 (10/10) - I highly recommend this game, for it is an epic, 
 and will sure to be talked about for millennia to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woman4games
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 11, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok, stuff like this really pisses me off. HOW in holy !#$%! did something like this get published? 
 Aren't there regulations?! Because if there are none, there will be when I get in the game industry. 
 I'll by golly push for them so that another "game" like this never makes it out of the office. 
 This is totally unfair to consumers who work hard for their money, only to have it literally ripped 
 off by making an unknowingly bad game choice. This is unacceptable, folks. I really believe that 
 every negative review here needs to be submitted to whoever can prevent this kind of crap from 
 reaching the market place. Come to think of it, submit the positive ones too, because they are 
 just jokes and the authorities will see right through them. I guess you have to have a good sense 
 of humor to swallow something this bad.
  As an interesting note, I was so fired up by what I had seen and heard about this game that I actually 
 did try to contact the companies. Neither could be reached........ and I tried both email and phone. 
 What does that tell you? They were probably just some fly-by-night companies looking to make a 
 quick and funny buck. Maybe they thought it would just be really great to screw the public.
  
  The only thing really funny about it here is that I'm not laughing. And neither are the gamers 
 who were ripped off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: binboy12
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 10, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  When game companies first start their games might be a little on the bad side but give them a second 
 chance and they can redeem themselvs deserveingly. But when is comes to big rigs over the road racing 
 it's a terrible piece of "work" I downloaded my version using bitlord but that doesent make a difference 
 apart from no music. But loads of people say that music sucks anyway. The game has 2 game modes. Custom 
 race where you pick 4 trucks and then pick 1 of the 4 tracks that actually works in the game out 
 of the 5 available. Devil passage Forgoten road 1 Devil passage 2 Nightride and small town road 
 are the levels in the game but nightride doesent work. The 4 trucks look nearly the same and the 
 game has no sound. So to make things better i decided to minimize the game and open windows media 
 player to put some music on. Music is on ahhh thats better something to feel happy about but then 
 when i was play the game the frame rate had droped to soemthing like 5 fps. I tried musicmatch jukebox 
 and real player to listen to my music but no still the same result. The reason why i say this game 
 is very hard ti play is becuause its not playable. The reason why i say it takes 5 hours or more 
 to learn is becuase you have to learn how the company can make a game this bad. But thats not it 
 there is a supposed ai trucker to race you but from start to finish it just sits there. So unless 
 you are obsesed with the words YOUR WINNER then play this game until you die, Unless you do die 
 when u reach 10 mph. Another issue is the supersonic lightspeed superfragalisticexpedalioucous reversing, You 
 can reach 1 million mph is reverse and still gain more speed but when u release revorse the truck 
 goes to a complete halt in less that 0:00:01. You can drive up 90 degree angle mountains you can 
 drive through truck stops houses everything, Even bridges dont exist, When you come to a bridge you 
 just simply sink through it as if it was an halucination you can even drive off the map and keep 
 going as far as you want even further that what it takes a plane to do 1 full lasp around the earth. Game 
 shop can put a price tag thinking hmmm this is a nice game Iwill buy this today and play it after 
 work. But the next day the employee will ring up saying i have quit my job becuause i am going to 
 hang my self off a tree. Big rigs os the only game i know stella stone have made but that doesent 
 surprise me. On the main menu the random race is just as boring becuasxe the ai automaticly picks 
 a race and truck for you. But the issie i had is the same things were chosen again and again. Sunrise 
 W12 in forgotten road 1. Alos on the main menu is a high score button well click it and see that 
 the screen is blank you cant even get 1 point in the game. What is strange is that fact that the 
 game is about trucks and yet on the loading screen you see a sports car??? dont ask me. This game 
 is worthless dont but it DOWNLOAD IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_gokan_chi
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 9, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  thiiz iis 1 of the most cheap overrated games of all time.
  I regret playing thiiz. easy gameplay easy everything the graphics suck but one thing addictive 
 is not playing the game. in the beginnning you will defeat it in 2 hours at least. so i give thiiz 
 game an abymal count .
  
  Gameply: Suck like my macroni and cheese
  
  Graphics : no offense thiiz thing was released in 2003 and the graphics look like it was made in 
 1952
  
  Sound: hmm... i can't say
  
  Value: not even worth the paying price
  
  Tilt: the worse of all!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  PLEASE STAY AWAY FROM THIIZ GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarioD04
Rating: 1.3
Date: Sep 3, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to make this one of my worst reviews to date. How good is Big Rigs: OTRR...? Not good 
 at all.
  
  Remember, if you always want to find a message saying "You're Winner" on your screen after helplessly 
 beating a bunch of solid, still trucks, be my guest.
  
  The game consists of about some of the worst things to date for a 2003 game. Terrible Graphics, 
 Terrible game play, Terrible sound (if any at all) , and hell.... I'll just give the tilt a 2 for 
 the game's sake.
  
  Gameplay: 1/10
  Reasons: Terrible game, terrible gameplay.... YOU'RE WINNER!!!!!
  
  Graphics: 1/10
  Reasons: 
 Why do you think? If you want a rectangle with a cartoonish truck image that can go 1010101001 
 miles in reverse, this game is for you. This should go in gameplay, but ah well, screw that. It's 
 so funny just watching this game though... haha... The graphics are terrible, and this game overall 
 is terrible.
  
  Sound: 0/10
  Reasons: I had to give the others at least a one for having some of these things... Does this game 
 have this certain item though? HELL NO. There is hardly any sound in the game, and overall, it's 
 crappy. Have fun delivering that imaginary load :)
  
  Value: 1/10
  Reasons: I'd say 50 cents for this game is too expensive. I'd give it a quarter at least though, 
 I mean come on.. Be reasonable, it still uses computer technology (while destroying it as well 
 =) ....
  
  What sort of value do you get wasting gas (if your game shop is far away at all) to even make it 
 there and to pay the 25 cents (that's what the price should be) to buy the game. This is ridiculous, 
 but I love other reviews because of their hilarious messages.
  
  Tilt: The best part in this game. Straight up behind the truck view of the ugly world Big Rigs 
 creates. My advice, learn from at least a mediocore 4.0 scored game... This is terrible.
  
  Reccommendations: Don't even give this a rent. If you find this in some box inside your garage, 
 throw it out immediately and/or set it on fire while ranting and describing why. Don't even look 
 at this game, it will hurt your eyes... honestly.
  
  Just don't man.... Don't do it. That's my review, thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celentanoad
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 1, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves a negative number. Unfortunatly, the lowest number I can give it is one. If 
 your looking for a game that involves racing trucks through different environments trying to beat 
 the competition to the end point, a game thats fun, has a little bit of a challenge, involves some 
 skill... Dont buy this game. There are only 4 trucks to choose from. The graphics are terrible. 
 The actual gameplay sucks. You might like this game if you like being able to go from 0-60-0 miles 
 per hour in two seconds up a verticle cliff. The game is so rediculously unrealistic. If you hold 
 down the right or left button on the keyboard, you will spin around in that direction. You can 
 fly off of mountains. When you go over the briges, you actually fall though them. You dont have 
 to worry about obstacles, because you can drive right through them. And your "competition" doesnt 
 even leave the starting gate, so you win every time. I dont know what idiot would buy this game, 
 or give it anything more then one star. There isnt one good thing about this game. It sucks. Seriously, 
 you do not want this game.
  
  For one, the gameplay is given a 1 because, there really isnt any. The graphics are horrible, sound 
 sucks, the whole game is just terrible dont buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greenlight23
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 30, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Not very long ago, in a distant country, a Russian developing company thought it was a good idea 
 to bring the gift of joy to people everywhere by making a complex system of code strung together 
 in a computer program to create a set of virtual pictures formed in animation, combined with a 
 various set of composed music and sounds placed in proper order, and supplied with the ability 
 to take place in this newfound set of entertainment by using a handheld electronic device connected 
 in a proper way. You and I would call it a "video game". Unfortunately, their ambition to bring 
 happiness everywhere was crushed to fine powder as their "video game" did not bring happiness, 
 but a deep disgust to the unlucky souls who played this "video game". There was, however, one factor 
 that cursed the development company and that doomed successful production of the "video game" from 
 the start. This was the absence of a brain.
  
  ...
  
  There are some games in this world which are not satisfactory to the average gamer. Some examples 
 are Way of the Warrior (cheap beyond belief) , Bikini Karate Babes (eeesh) , and anything that Head 
 Games Co. attempts to make and sell (extreme!) . Yes, it's sad, but it's true. However, there is 
 one game that beats them all, breaks the mold, lowers the bar, whatever you want to call it. It 
 should recieve an award for being atrocious to the point of disbelief. The game I am talking about 
 is Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing. The game that's so bad, it's impressive.
  
  The plot: In the game, you play as a road-raged truck driver who must race across dangerous roads 
 throughout huge landscapes, delivering your cargo from stop to stop and making the record time. 
 Throughout the roads, you must encounter such horrible roadblocks as slippery ice, giant storms, 
 and police roadblocks, all challenging you to be the best Big Rig.
  
  ... Okay.
  
  Please believe me when I say that you shouldn't believe everything you read. The above paragraph 
 was not true in the slightest. Everything you just read you will not be doing in Big Rigs. There 
 are no dangerous roads, no good landscapes, no good time count, no records, no ice, no storms, 
 no police, NO CARGO! What's the point of being a Big Rig then if there's no cargo? The game is 
 basically a shell; it looks nice, but there's really nothing in it.
  
  When starting the game up, to race, you must choose a truck to control out of a selection of 4 
 whole trucks, which look relatively similar and all have the same speed, but they have wicked cool 
 names!!!! Then you must choose a track to race on, out of a selection of 5 whole tracks, which 
 all look relatively similar and don't have wicked cool names at all. You can't even choose Track 
 #4 (seriously, that's what it's called) because it'll close the game automatically. Then, you're 
 facing up against one truck who you must race through laps to the finish line. Ooh, plot twist! 
 It looks like the driver on the other truck was knocked out by thieves and has no ability to drive, 
 leaving you to finish the course before he even goes 2 paces. After winning, a screen appears where 
 a very nice-looking trophy revolves around the screen with very nice-looking words saying, "YOU'RE 
 WINNER!" G"ra, mm'ar?) R-u le: z!. The company saw their oopsie and decided to make a patch to be 
 released the day after game release that would help the race by giving you some challenge. You 
 could now actually race the truck in an actual race. Ooh, plot twist! The truck ran out of gas 
 at the exact microsecond it was about to finish, leaving the truck hopelessly stuck at the very 
 end and letting you win the race again. "YOU'RE WINNER!"
  
  But if you can't race properly, why not take a subtle drive around the country? That would be fun 
 and all, if you at least had something to look at. Each track has lousy formed scenery, with blocky 
 sprite houses and telephone poles, puce-colored ground and a bleak-looking background. It's not 
 something I'd look at, but maybe some people will enjoy it.
  
  And if that doesn't bring you down, the nonexistence of anyhitng real will. Every sprite in the 
 game, whether it be a house, bridge, gas station, bush, whatever, is completely hollow. You can 
 drive through anything and nothing will happen. How shallow can you get?
  
  Physics in the game are really quite atrocious. You can drive diagonally across hills, go straight 
 up mountains and not lose speed and you can spin around in reverse at a thousand miles a hour and 
 stop on a dime. It seems as though your truck is glued to the ground, as it can go up in any way.
 
  
  They couldn't even get the music right! Horrible loopy four-note techno beats are present, and 
 are something no gamer, no matter what I. Q. he is, will want to listen to. And there is also no 
 sound effects in the game at all, except the low sound of your truck moving. Well, what did you 
 expect from a company that's top priority is to spend as little money as possible?
  
  What do we have? We have ourselves a failure here. Playing things like this, I wonder just what 
 they're really teaching kids up there in Russia. It's not worth any dare to play this horribleness 
 at any cost (no, not even a dare) . All I can say is, it had to happen someday. The day had to come 
 when a game like this would be shown to the public. Well, at least we have an example of the minimum 
 effort we should put into making a video game, right?
  
  
  
  Right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: talshiarr
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  By having no gameplay, this innovative racing title is forcing you expand your notions of what 
 the meaning of "gameplay" is. The red herrings included on the game's box to entice you into purchasing 
 it are, in fact, cleverly designed viral/subliminal cues to classify you in space-time as a sensory 
 and analytical being. This is beyond 10.0 gameplay.
  
  The non-presence of "state of the art" graphics hearkens back to the time when we played Pong and 
 Asteroids and mentalized the missing visual data into thinking we were standing on the court at 
 Wimbledon or piloting our Star Wars-like craft through treacherous Lucasian asteroid fields. This 
 can surely not be considered a flaw since the player's mind provides the ULTIMATE limit of adding 
 that necessary graphical imagination. How can it not be a 10.0000?
  
  As for the lack of sound I have two words for you: CHARLIE CHAPLIN. He didn't need sound to make 
 some of the masterpieces of cinema. Sound is certainly and OPTION in game design, not a mandate. 
 The fact that this is already a visual masterpiece as described above means the sound is a bonus. 
 Clearly 10.0 here.
  
  Value? If this was a full priced title you should consider yourself as having the deal of a lifetime. 
 The fact it is priced at the astonishingly low price it is means that even the poorest can afford 
 a slice of this 21st Century cultural ambrosia.
  
  I have ceased buying computer software. There can never be a more transcendant product in the future 
 of gaming unless we are fortunate enough to be blessed with Big Rigs II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saosebastiao
Rating: 1.3
Date: Aug 29, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  BROTTR is probably the worse racing game there is ... probably because it was made with 15000 dollars.
 
  Having that said, let's review this game:
  
  -visuals: the graphics are lacklustre since they seem to have been made in a jiffy, since the "rigs" 
 go through any thing... even mountains (i said "rigs" because shadowcloud's review just before is 
 right... no cargo)
  
  -sound: there isnt any sountrack and the sounds are the worse ever -gameplay: zero playability 
 since there is no challange... no a. i. ... if i like games there is a reason to it... they test you 
 into beating it and make it worthwhile if you do... so this game has no reason to play it...
  
  -value: sorry but i just seem one "loser" since i can't find any value... (maybe loser means 
 something else... i dunno)
  -resuming: zero
  
  to the gamespot administrators: if i have done a bad review by mouthing the game then i'm sorry, 
 since i didn't mean to... also if i have used any swearing in this review please do show me where 
 i was wrong, since i don't think i used any... i took the liberty of seeing if i misspelled anyword... and 
 please, please do not erase this review... i want you to see that may people will try and send an 
 "abuse" to this review... i don't think i made a bad review because i did not break any rule... i 
 just want you to pay attention to all those people who falsly acuse others... gamespot should not 
 only expell those who write the reviews but also those who send abuse letters with no reason... those 
 who do agree with me please help me by sending to the gamespot boards the truth... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baronck
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Can one purchase the ever-casing divinity of nirvana? Have you ever tasted nector of the gods? 
 If not my friends, then allow me to point you to the closest thing there is: Big Rigs
  
  Big Rigs, even the name alone has the power to sooth the savage beast. Once I purchased the game, 
 instead of opening the box with a scissor, I proceeded to ingest the box all cept the wonderful 
 circular disk contained inside. If the box tasted this good, I can only imagine of what was in 
 store for me.
  
  Installation was quite painless, and the multitude of options like "sound on, sound off" was quite 
 inviting. You can customize your truck to look like any of the 4 preset rigs. I spent hours trying 
 to decide which Work of Art Truck to use, it was a tough choice between the GMC 18 wheeler with 
 the Chrome rimms and tints, or the MercedesT Class with undercarriage lighting and massage seats.
 
  
  Once you play the objectives are describedfor you in a nice yet tactical layout system. You drive 
 to destination to destination helping town's folk and drifters alike. Your Truck adheres to the 
 road with very nice Yokohama tires and can stop on a dime, the developers of this game thought 
 of everything. Eventually You'll love the game so much that you will put the EXE icon in your startup 
 menu and this game is the ONLY reason to own a computer.
  
  I love fallout 2... oh wait, i mean BIG RIGS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NEED_PS3_BAAAD
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  When I first pick up this game, I thought, "Piece of Crap." but after playing it at my brother's 
 house, it was the game of the gods.
  
  Let's get straight to the review
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game is an eye's delicacy. The model of the cars look percisely 
 like a realistic virsion. 'Nough said, not even the graphics of half-life 2 combine with quake 
 4 can match this beauty.
  
  Gameplay: Farout of this world. The game will let you have free roam EVERYWHERE, it even has stealth 
 on where you can hide in the mountains and the agility to walk on water. The A. I. is superbly intelligent, 
 they'll be from where you started before you know it. The multiplayer is submerse, you can play 
 online with a dial-up connection, and it feels like your playing against alot less intelligent 
 A. I.
  
  Sound: The sound is so delightful, that I decided to download the effects and put them in my IPOD. 
 Yep, it's that good, and the soundtrack has nearly every band, along side there genius composer 
 "New Beethoven." Wow, those really are such true words.
  
  Value: So little time, so much openendlessness. The game has so many easter eggs, that it'll take 
 you years to crack. It's so good, that it made me, a hater of racing games, into a fanatical fan.
 
  
  God, thank you so much for this game!!! I can now die in peace. : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pileozombies
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 29, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  There are many racing video games out there; however most of them have been mediocre to just passable. 
 However, we now have Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing; A game that manages to do everything wrong 
 and sets a new standard for the video game industry and all racing videos game to come; Nothing 
 at all...
  
  When you fire up Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing for the first time, you'll notice something that 
 may come to a shock to you at first; the graphics are crap. The fine folks at Stellar Stone productions 
 wanted to make sure everything could handle this crap title and with these low res graphics, even 
 a computer with less than 1 GB of harddrive space could handle it.
  
  Now the next crappy thing that Big Rigs can offer you is its bad gameplay options. Most games have 
 multiple options and tons of extras to explore which can be not overwhelming! However Big Rigs 
 fixes this problem by offering only one mode; racing. That's all you want right? Some of you might 
 have heard bad things about Big Rigs. Lets just confirm these rumours right now. Big Rigs may be 
 good in the beginning, but that doesn't mean it's good. Racing couldn't be more fun! Sure there 
 are only 4 race tracks (and only 2 actually load up) but you can learn that these 2 tracks are 
 crappy which makes the game horrible to play. And yes; these tracks ARE NOT open ended and you 
 can instantly go from 0 to 500 miles an hour in reverse... what other good game lets you do that?!
 
  
  Most racing games restrict you to race tracks. NOT BIG RIGS! They let you go where ever you want! 
 Want to go through a building? Go through a mountain? No problem. Doing so will take you through 
 to minus world... where you can drive forever in any direction. And you don't have to worry about 
 crashing into anything... because you can drive through EVERYTHING.
  
  When it comes to actually racing, heres where the REAL fun comes into play! You only have one opponent... and 
 when the race starts he doesn't actually move... but when you cross that finish line it sure makes 
 you like your good at video games.... and spelling too. The game has intentional typos to make you 
 feel smart! WOW... what a game! it sucks.
  
  There are no sounds in this game; once again an idea that other should follow. Now I can focus 
 on the race at hand and no be distracted with crappy music... however if Big Rigs would to have 
 music, it would have been even worse !
  
  In the end, Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is a game that everyone should play. To its low system 
 requirements, to its exciting free roaming courses, Big Rigs will MAKE you try to kill yourself 
 for a long time to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceInfernoX3
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  There are many racing video games out there; however most of them have been mediocre to just passable. 
 However, we now have Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing; A game that manages to do everything right 
 and sets a new standard for the video game industry and all racing videos game to come.
  
  When you fire up Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing for the first time, you'll notice something that 
 may come to a shock to you at first; the graphics are crap. However, that is a narrow minded view 
 to the whole situtation. The fine folks at Stellar Stone productions wanted to make sure everything 
 could handle this revolutionary title and with these low res graphics, even a computer with less 
 than 1 GB of harddrive space could handle it. Other games like Oblivion and Prey force owners of 
 older computers to pay thousands of dollars to upgrade your computer... just to PLAY the game; well 
 forget that. Get more for your money!
  
  Now the next revolutionary thing that Big Rigs can offer you is its intriguing gameplay options. 
 Most games have multiple options and tons of extras to explore which can be EXTREMLEY overwhelming! 
 However Big Rigs fixes this problem by offering only one mode; racing. That's all you want right? Some 
 of you might have heard bad things about Big Rigs. Lets just stop these rumours right now. Big 
 Rigs may be hard in the beginning, but that doesn't mean it's bad. On the contrary, it only makes 
 it even better when you finally get the hang of it.
  
  Racing couldn't be more fun! Sure there are only 4 race tracks (and only 2 actually load up) but 
 you can learn these 2 very open ended tracks easily which makes the game a blast to play. And yes; 
 these tracks ARE open ended and you can instantly go from 0 to 500 miles an hour in reverse... what 
 other game lets you do that?!
  
  Most racing games restrict you to race tracks. NOT BIG RIGS! They let you go where ever you want! 
 Want to go through a building? Go through a mountain? No problem. Doing so will take you through 
 to minus world... where you can drive forever in any direction. Now THATS a freedom NO other racing 
 game can offer you. And you don't have to worry about crashing into anything... because you can 
 drive through EVERYTHING; nothing will interrupt your fun.
  
  When it comes to actually racing, heres where the REAL fun comes into play! You only have one opponent... and 
 when the race starts he doesn't actually move... but when you cross that finish line it sure makes 
 you like your good at video games.... and spelling too. The game has intentional typos to make you 
 feel smart! WOW... what a game!
  
  There are no sounds in this game; once again an idea that other should follow. Now I can focus 
 on the race at hand and no be distracted with crappy music... however if Big Rigs would to have 
 music, it would have been spectacular!
  
  In the end, Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is a game that everyone should play. To its low system 
 requirements, to its exciting free roaming courses, Big Rigs will keep you busy for a long time 
 to come! Think state of art! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inoperativeRS
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Some of you might have heard bad things about Big Rigs. Lets just stop these rumours right now. 
 Big Rigs may be hard in the beginning, but that doesn't mean it's bad. On the contrary, it only 
 makes it even better when you finally get the hang of it.
  
  The first time you play big rigs you'll notice this game isn't like other games. It gives you total 
 freedom in a way no other game before it has. So you want to pwn the noob AI drivers? Drive up 
 on the mountain over there? Reverse in 20000 mph? Drive through houses and trees (destructible 
 enviroments!) ? Fly around in a zen state of complete happiness? Choose between 4 totally cool cars? 
 All this is possible in Big Rigs!
  
  Do I need to make it clearer? GO BUY BIG RIGS NOW! There's nothing like reversing in 20000 mph 
 while your AI opponents still are trying to get their motors started (that's how realistic this 
 game is!) . Or drive around in mountains with beautiful white snow beneath your tires.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  While the first hour or so with the game might be confusing, mostly because 
 of the vast possibilities it gives you, it'll just get better and better, and after a couple houndreds 
 hours you'll suddenly realize you'll never experience a game like this again. Literally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nico4
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 20, 2006 3:25 am PT
Review:  Like Alex Navarro said: Please do not play this game. Unfortunately i chouldnet help but try it 
 out. 
  
  Now that i tyred it i know the game is crap! You can drive though everything, drive perfectly uphills, 
 sink into bridges, and drive out of a level into nothing! because the levels dont have any boundaries, 
 trucks drive fast as well, and you can go from 0 to 60mph in about five seconds in reverse! Plus 
 that theres no physics and the trucks handles poorly
  
  Further more, youll always win because your rivals never move, they stay at the start all the 
 time! and theres no police! no cargo! even not sound effects is there. Except for some crappy 
 techno music that loops itself all the time!
  
  The controls sucks big time! touch the forward key very gentle and you accelerate much too quickly 
 to even be minutely realistic. And you cant change it either, plus you cant get any controller 
 to work with it, simply because the game dosent support them.
  
  Graphics? the worst released in recent memory, truck models are amazingly terrible, with incredibly 
 archaic-looking designs and brake lights that actually float off of the truck models, environments 
 which looks bad, ugly and meaning less peices, and clipping problems.
  
  Replay valve? NONE! theres 5 courses but the game will only let you play the four of them, since 
 when loading the fifth course the game crashs. In fact play one level and this one goes to the 
 junkyard.
  
  There is a patch for this game, but it dosent do anything too fix any of the games problems.
 
  
  So there you have it, the wrost game this year. Youd better thank Alex Navarro for playing this 
 game, so we dont have to. Thanks Alex, its just a shame i dinint listen to your advise.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ducis02
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Every once in a rare while, a game comes across that is eventually dubbed a masterpiece. Big Rigs: 
 Over the Road Racing is truly one of these games. Released in 2003 by the reputable Stellar Stone 
 LLC, Big Rigs is considered the most underrated game ever made.
  
  Story:10/10
  The story in Big Rigs is fantastic! The back of the game box describes the story as "From the desert 
 to the plains, you'll be hauling loads and trying to stay one step ahead of the law, as you climb 
 into your big rig for non-stop driving action. Race across America and deliver your load to its 
 destination before the competition. so keep the tank full and your pedal to the metal as you rackup 
 points and own the road." What may seem like a simple story will actually develop into one of the 
 greatest tales ever told. Throughout the game, players will encounter numerous twists and turns 
 that will eventually result in a great climax of epic proportions. 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  After picking up Big Rigs at a local game shop, I was blown away by the gameplay from the very 
 start. The story involves the player trying to deliver cargo while being chased by the pesky police. 
 In addition, the player must stay ahead of the rival big rig before it crosses the finish line. 
 The AI is simply amazing and it feels as if you are really racing against another human being! 
 The police are determined to put a stop to your business and you may often find yourself the victim 
 of a police roadblock! Another thing that makes the gameplay wonderful is that all gamers, from 
 the most inexperienced to the best in the world, can get right into the game.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  The graphics in this game rivals and often surpasses that of the Playstation 
 3. Buildings, wildlife, and trees are all intricately detailed. One can only guess how much time 
 the developers put into this masterpiece. The lighting effects and color on the big rigs are all 
 so wonderfully done that I often thought that the game was actually a movie!
  
  Sound: 10/10
  What can I say? It's absolutely fantastic. The music is catchy and mirrored that 
 of a symphony orchestra. From the mighty horn of your big rig to the ambient noise of mother nature, 
 this game revolutionized the sound of gaming forever. 
  
  Replay Value: 10/10
  Big Rigs may be the best game in history but how long does the fun last? Well, I bought this game 
 six months ago and I am still enjoying it every day. Each session seemed to be a totally different 
 game. That's how unpredictable the AI is. In addition to the regular level, players can actually 
 venture off into an endless "gray void". To this day, the void remains the greatest mystery in 
 gaming history.
  
  Conclusion: I consider Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing to be the greatest game of all time. The 
 developers have combined awesome gameplay, graphics, and sound into one masterpiece. I recommend 
 that all gamers rush to their game store or look online for this gem of a game. Congratulations 
 to Stellar Stone for releasing yet another "stellar" game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DARTHvayda
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I have never played a game where the computer is nice enough to let you win every time! The graphics 
 are incredible too, i just love the highly detailed textures, especially the way you can drive 
 through walls. The ground is very detailed, I imagine who made this game spent months on it. My 
 grandpa drives a truck and we always ramp off mountains, its so fun im glad other people have discovered 
 it too!!!!!! My favorite part was racing against the highly competitive AI, it just sits at the 
 starting line! I recommend that everyone go buy this game so they can have hours and hours of fun! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdrenalinDragon
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Big Rigs for a while, and I've concluded that this is the greatest game ever. 
 Now, have you ever felt let down or had some LOSER experience? Well, Big Rigs will solve all of 
 that for you. 
  
  The driving mechanics used in Big Rigs are superb. You can reverse millions of miles per hour and 
 stop when you let go off the movement keys. It made me feel like a WINNER. I hadn't discovered 
 this experience before, and it changed my life forever. 
  
  I once lost control of my truck because of this, and I was worried that I was going to crash. But 
 Big Rigs helped me, by letting me drive right through the objects, and I couldn't have felt more 
 like a WINNER. 
  
  The simple things I wanted from a game, such as freedom, and a chance to win. Big Rigs answered 
 all of that. I was able to drive up mountains, drive everywhere, drive through water, and most 
 of all, my opponent. He just stays there, feeling like a LOSER, but that doesn't bother me at all, 
 as Big Rigs has teached me that I'm always a WINNER.
  
  When I am racing, I always feel like a WINNER. I drive through all of the checkpoints, and I'm 
 just laughing at how the opponent is just sitting then on the finish line, jealous of my WINNERness. 
 When I beat him to the finish line however, I always fall out of my chair. The words YOU'RE WINNER! 
 pop up on the screen, and my WINNING spirit always increases, race by race. 
  
  I can't describe how much Big Rigs changed my life, and many others around me. You can only experience 
 it yourself. If you want to be a WINNER, or want the PERFECT game, then make sure it's Big Rigs. 
 You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jad_nawfal
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 12, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  The Graphics: Horrible! Little kids may have nightmares because of these graphics first of all 
 you go through houses the rig isn't even big the back lights aren't even atatched to the (small 
 rig) , you go through and under bridges you go up a steep mountain and into nothingness with loads 
 of glitches with the rig.
  
  The Gameplay: Not fun boring disastrous and the A. I What A. I?! there is no A. I. you go more than 
 1000 mph with no sense of adrenalin whatsoever! you can't go to the 5'th track because it will 
 return you to your desktop!
  
  The Sound: One repettitive headache inducing beat and rythm no sound effects for the rig. No soundtrack! 
 No fun!
  
  Don't buy this game! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DbleBassDrummer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 11, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Since 2004, racing games have had a lot to live up to. As Final Fantasy 7 set the standard for 
 RPG's, and when Halo set the standard for First Person shooters, no racing game has been able to 
 come close to Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing.
  
  Where does one begin in describing such a game? Big Rigs puts you behind the wheel of one of several 
 mean trucks. The object is to pass a checkpoint race before another truck, while avoiding conflicts 
 with the law. The brilliance is in the simplicity. Big Rigs doesn't put you through all the lengthy 
 truck endorsments for trucking related products. It doesn't add in a billion different modes you'll 
 never play. Big Rigs gets straight to the point, and in seconds you can zoom off on your way to 
 victory.
  
  The races run extremely smoothly. In fact, you don't even need a load of cargo. Big Rigs spares 
 you the extra annoyance of carrying a load of cargo that may get detatched, damaged, or fall prey 
 to an act of God, despite defeating the purpose of driving a truck. In fact, the trucks you drive 
 in Big Rigs are somewhat magical. With brakes of steel, you'll never have to worry about spinning 
 out when you come to a sudden stop. This is especially useful if you want to stop and go in the 
 complete opposite direction. The other magical abilities your truck possesses are incredible traction 
 and the ability to move through objects. The moving through objects ability makes moving through 
 heavily crowded areas easy. However, while moving through buildings may be useful, this backfires 
 at bridges. You must use caution while on a bridge or you may sink right through. The incredible 
 traction of your truck makes driving up a mountain easy as driving across flat land. Needless to 
 say, your truck is so awesome and incredible, there's a really good chance that the other driver 
 may be frozen in awe, and forget to move. The police will probably give up, or better yet, not 
 even bother chasing you. Though it is not stated on the box or in the instruction manual, is pretty 
 obvious, as there is no other explanation to how your truck can be that awesome.
  
  Though your truck is probably the most awesome vehicle you'll ever drive, Big Rigs is not without 
 danger. Since this game is so awesome, you'll likely want to take the longcuts across the mountains 
 as opposed to the actual road you're supposed to race on. On the edge of these mountains however, 
 there is a demonic abyss which will try to suck your car into nothingness and eat your soul. Needless 
 to say, this makes the game extremely exciting. Along with the bridge and the worrying if maybe 
 the cops do decide to show up, and the other driver gaining his senses and start to drive, there 
 are enough dangers to keep the game tense.
  
  Few games call for an experience this exciting. In fact, the prospect of racing a truck without 
 any cargo against a bewildered opponent with a police force who wants to bust you for no apparent 
 reason but suddenly decided not to show up is enough to get any gamer excited. If you haven't picked 
 up Big Rigs yet, then you're missing out on something special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mythunbjib
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 11, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Very often there are games on the market that are so bad that they deserve to have every surviving 
 copy burned, if the owners of the game haven't burned it already. Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing 
 is truly one of these games. contrary to popular belief, Big Rigs is even worse then even Alex 
 Navaro reviewed it as being.
  
  Story: 0/10
  
  The story is terrible. The back of the game box describes the story as "From the desert to the 
 plains, you'll be hauling loads and trying to stay one step ahead of the law, as you climb into 
 your big rig for non-stop driving action. Race across America and deliver your load to its destination 
 before the competition. so keep the tank full and your pedal to the metal as you rackup points 
 and own the road." The seemingly simple story is actually a nonexistent one. The lack of plot, 
 however, may be sparing us serious pain considering how horrible the rest of the game is.
  
  Gameplay: 1/10
  
  The only reason this game gets a 1 instead of 0 is because technically 
 you actually do *something.* Of course, most of the people who buy the game don't know that because 
 they set fire to their houses in order to destroy this game. The supposed police don't really exist, 
 or at least certainly don't actually follow you. Your opponent doesn't even race you without the 
 patch; with it, they stop before the finish line to let you win. The only thing the police know 
 how to do is block the road, most of the time because the never moved in the first place. One can 
 only guess if the police cars are actually capable of movement. Maybe the police had budget cuts, 
 just like this game.
  
  Graphics: 1/10
  
  The graphics in this game often fall below the capabilities of the Playstation 1. Buildings, wildlife, 
 and trees have such horrible textures they make me want to claw my eyes out. One can only guess 
 how much time the developers put into this "masterpiece." The lighting effects are so bad that 
 the game was actually drawing made with 4 different colored crayons.
  
  Sound:1/10
  
  What can I say? It made me scream in horror. The music is terrible and mirrors that of my little 
 brother with a kazoo. From the incessant beeping of the horn of your big rig to the loud scrathing 
 noise of mother nature, this game makes me envy the deaf.
  
  Replay Value: 0/10
  
  This game may be the worst game in history, but at least it can't get worse over time, right? Wrong. 
 I never enjoyed this game before and I enjoy it less now. Every session is exactly the same, due 
 to the predictable AI. Don't even get me started on the so-called "gray void," the biggest disappointment 
 in gaming history.
  
  And I would like to add one final category:
  
  Physics:1/10
  
  The physics in this game are awful at best. The only people who play this game might not be 
 smart enough to know this, but here's a little secret: DRIVING UP A VERTICAL FACE IS NOT POSSIBLE! 
 I realize that many of you may not have realized this, but I assure you that it is true.
  
  Conclusion: I consider Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing to be one of the worst games of all time. 
 I can only assume that the single developer that worked part-time for a week put as much effort 
 as he could into this game: obviously not very much. If I could make the overall score worse, I 
 would. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gargarensi
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 6, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  This game, is probobly the most, worst game ever made, enough said. I never really do understand 
 how video game producers never realize that they're making the public suffer with this crap they 
 call a game,
  Webster calls a actual game: A activity to pass time.
  This game barely took up any of my time, I played it for five, maybe ten minutes tops. The producers 
 must be fourth graders to not realise the grammatically incorrect, "You're WINNER" phrase.
  
  DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME IF YOU KNOW WHATS GOOD FOR YOU!!!!!!!!! DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME IF YOU KNOW 
 WHATS GOOD FOR YOU!!!!!!!!! DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME IF YOU KNOW WHATS GOOD FOR YOU!!!!!!!!! DO NOT 
 PLAY THIS GAME IF YOU KNOW WHATS GOOD FOR YOU!!!!!!!!! DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME IF YOU KNOW WHATS GOOD 
 FOR YOU!!!!!!!!! DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME IF YOU KNOW WHATS GOOD FOR YOU!!!!!!!!! DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME 
 IF YOU KNOW WHATS GOOD FOR YOU!!!!!!!!! DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME IF YOU KNOW WHATS GOOD FOR YOU!!!!!!!!! DO 
 NOT PLAY THIS GAME IF YOU KNOW WHATS GOOD FOR YOU!!!!!!!!! DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME IF YOU KNOW WHATS 
 GOOD FOR YOU!!!!!!!!! DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME IF YOU KNOW WHATS GOOD FOR YOU!!!!!!!!! DO NOT PLAY THIS 
 GAME IF YOU KNOW WHATS GOOD FOR YOU!!!!!!!!! DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME IF YOU KNOW WHATS GOOD FOR YOU!!!!!!!!! DO 
 NOT PLAY THIS GAME IF YOU KNOW WHATS GOOD FOR YOU!!!!!!!!! DDO NOT PLAY THIS GAME IF YOU KNOW WHATS 
 GOOD FOR YOU!!!!!!!!! DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME IF YOU KNOW WHATS GOOD FOR YOU!!!!!!!!! DO NOT PLAY THIS 
 GAME IF YOU KNOW WHATS GOOD FOR YOU!!!!!!!!! O NOT PLAY THIS GAME IF YOU KNOW WHATS GOOD FOR YOU!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RanXer0x
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  What else do you need, and why else would anyone ever desire to leave the house? I have played 
 over 100 games personally, including: anything from Blizzard to Id Software, and nothing will ever 
 touch this game.
  
  I am an art student as well, and have found that the artistic merits of the game could be the only 
 one (or one of the few) in existence that could be measured on its artistic integrity. Take this 
 for what it is, but I feel that the game itself and it's design has been made deliberate.
  
  I rated this game as a perfect score. This game is perfect in everyway.. in that each and every 
 moment I spend with the title at my home, smacks with sense of cultural identity and also feelings 
 of xeno-assimilation (I seriously can't think of a better word for it) . And I wouldn't be surprised 
 to see a Game of the Year edition, to a game, that continues to fight in the public arena on the 
 grounds of "Games being Art".
  
  One day, people will begin to see that a game doesn't have to be portentious in it's design, for 
 it to be considered Art. And I personally feel that the opposite is true.
  
  ------
  
  P. S. For those of you that read my previous review, I appologize. I didn't mean to offend anyone, 
 and now understand what I am able to post according to the TOS. My previous review was only meant 
 as a joke, and now subject my new review, according to taste and actual personal opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowcloud21
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 1, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing. Now, there's a game I haven't heard of in a while and I would have 
 gone with another year without thinking of this game. Just by looking at the gameplay, old frustrations 
 burn inside me. This was a game on my friend's computer. He told me it was the worst game ever 
 made, but he usually goes overboard with his negativity so I thought "Hey, it can't be that bad." 
 So I start playing and just as I start a race, I notice lack of sound effects, the music was extremely 
 lousy and annoying that I turned off the volume, lack of reality, no cargo (how can you be a Big 
 Rig with no trailer? What the hell?) , and overall, lack of effort. It was as if Stellar Stone said 
 during a meeting "Hey! I got a great idea! Let's make the worst game in the universe! First, let's 
 hire some toddlers from the kindergarten to make the graphics, a few bums for the gameplay, and 
 maybe an asylem escapee for the music." Big Rigs promises cop chases and high-tensioned racing. 
 Well, first off, where are the freakin' cops? I would bet the cops in this game deleted themselves 
 just to escape how bad Big Rigs is. The so-called "high-tensioned racing" is just you running through 
 a horribly graphiced environment as speeds that are usually either impossible for a big rig {I 
 mean, how can someone go into the negatives? Where is the logic?} and when you do hit high speeds, 
 releasing the arrow key will completely stop your truck in less than a second. That is pretty damn 
 sad. Might I also mention that your so-called 'opponent' has no function in the game. Big Rigs 
 is so bad that they don't even have an decent artificial intelligence ! In the end, Big Rigs: Over 
 the Road Racing is arguably the worst possible game in the history of gaming because it can't get 
 any worse! People on this site say "It's awesome!" "The best game ever!" "Big Rig rules!" Well, 
 that is what we call NOOBS! Because they obviously are so desperate for a good game in their lives, 
 that they have gone so low to say this game is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpg9000owner
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2006 1:21 am PT
Review:  Ive spent many years playing on my PC I have come across many classic's. But this is definatly 
 up there. Gamespot got it soo wrong.
  Gameplay: The engine is one of the best ive ever played. The gameplay is fast and addictive. Sometimes 
 i feel like my hand is glued to the mouse. When you really start to play... there is nothing like 
 it.
  Graphics: The graphics have to be seen to be believed! The visuals are amazing. Seriously this 
 gives Crysis a run for its money. The shader effects are simply outstanding! The textures and models 
 are so crisp. But You will need a SLI setup to run these graphics though.
  Overall: I really don't understand what gamespot are talking about this really is an uncut diamond 
 in the PC gaming industry. You really should be playing it right now... Its as good as PC gaming 
 gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nht12101990
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Just how good is Big Rigs? As good as your mind will allow you to comprehend.
  
  Gameplay: Some of the best racing you can find on any platform. This game is full of amazing physics, 
 Intelligent A. I. (Probably the best I've ever seen.) And revolutionary gameplay. The thing that 
 makes this game revolutionary is the ability to drive outside of the levels themselves which makes 
 this game extremely open ended. (Even more so than Oblivion or Kotor.)
  
  Graphics: The graphics surpass any game that I have ever seen. The amazing detail on the "Rigs" 
 is amazing it makes me believe that I'm the one inside the "Rig" driving out of the world into 
 endless boundaries simply amazing!
  
  Sound: While there isn't much sound in Big Rigs, The sound is amazing! If you're WINNER you would 
 give the game a 10 in the sound department regardless of how much sound their actually is. The 
 sound is amazing (Even more so in Surround Sound.)
  
  Final Verdict: Go out and by this game! It's one of the best decisions you'll ever make in your 
 entire life! The A. I. provides extremely challenging difficulty, The graphics are amazing, And 
 the sound is mind blowing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alakalaboo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  Take the best thing ever created and mix it with the second best thing ever created, and you would 
 have a fleck of the pure awesomeness that was forged together to make a single copy of big rigs. 
 I thought this game was too good to be true, I picked up a copy of it for a few hundred thousand 
 dollars at the Big Rigs store, and on my way home i must have pissed blood at least ten times out 
 of pure anticipation to play the game, I mean i could see holographs coming out and dancing like 
 butterflies in a full lunar swing. I was filled with images of birds chirping merrily as the sun 
 waned to be replaced by the big face in the moon, as the clouds lazily drifted across the sky, 
 the faint smell of tuplips was distinguishable and the crashing of the waves echoed in the distance. 
 And ever so faintly at first, came the minute sounds of an engine in the distance. Quietly at first, 
 and before I could blink, it had passed, and i was left again with the sound of the waves. Obviouslly 
 my brain could not comprehend the pure winner of this game. It has so many uses other than just 
 a game, i will name one hundred to prove it to you. Bicycle tires, rims, shuriken, dinner plate, 
 shield, frisbee, prize, ring, saw blade, discuss, pizza cutter, doughnut, clock, mirror, pizza, 
 flying saucer, tele-pad, computer, beard trimmer, toothbrush, egg beater, blender, car alarm, stop 
 sign, fire hydrant, airplane, telephone, radio, internet, casino, motor oil, jet pack, sun, moon, 
 jupiter, uranus, pluto, mars, neptune, earth, mercury, encyclopedia, dictionary, haiku generator, 
 nuclear fisson factory, keyboard, skateboard, guitar, unicycle, scooter, train, shovel, paddle, 
 canoe, shade, pitcher, the letter O, glasses, deoderent, clothing, reins, umbrella, walking stick, 
 chewing gum, box, shelter, console, robot, laser cannon, social life, best friend, samurai monkey, 
 the aplhabet, printer, scanner, fax machine, ice, speaker, Moby Dick, grenade launcher, legal tender, 
 table top, sleigh, gyro, television, bed, pillow, Satellite, explosive, oxygen, fire, religion, 
 world peace, harpoon, carrot, calculus, freedom, independence, evrything else. And there you have 
 it, and i barely nipped the tip of the ice berg there. To say that this game is the best game ever 
 made, is an understatement, this is by far the greatest accomplishment, any thing, living or non, 
 has yet to see, (the second being chuck norris.) But i was seriosuly blown away the moment i put 
 the cd in the drive, quite literally actually. My computer first exploded, then imploded, exploded 
 again, then imploded once more before returning to a liquid state. I then proceeded to play my 
 copy of big rigs, which i belive i should find a support clinic for, although i fear everyone might 
 be to busy playing this game to make a support clinic for. The AI, is more realistic than a human 
 being, and very challenging at that, though you seem to fall right in the curve and soon you feel 
 like your playing among the rank of gods, which truly makes you feel WINNER. Assuming a normal 
 human could go to war and kill a man, big rigs AI could go to a man and kill a war. And the graphics 
 leave you dazed and confused if you ever decide to enter the normal world again, youll feel like 
 real life is nothing but a cell shaded, 2D, cheap wanna-be rip off that doesnt even come a triilionth-bizillionth 
 of a fraction close to this game. The sounds, hmm i dont know how else to phrase this but, "ear 
 orgasm". I was totally enthused evrytime a sound effect kicked in, which is always, seeing as its 
 a totally ambient environment with thats fully interactive, and anything that sticks out a bizillionth 
 of a millimeter is usable in the game. Every single blade of grass is rendered in this game with 
 stunning detail, there are plenty of interactive charcters in the game (5-6 billion to be exact) 
 and each voice is rendered by the game with surreal accuracy and attention to detail, the world 
 is enormous, and you can visit seperate land masses with the most minute detail on the environment, 
 some places actually have in game warnings placed so that players dont explode, though it still 
 happens frequently. It has an expanding online community with millions of billions of players from 
 all over the universe who gather to worship lord stell, over all, best game ever. Ill give you 
 a chance to check it out yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude12121212
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Big rigs is my favorite game. Unlike other video games, which have these boring things called rules, 
 competition, losing, realistic graphics, and top speeds, big rigs has no rules. You can go as fast 
 as you want and stop instantly. YOu can discover new dimensions. You can go through any objects 
 you want. And best of all, you always win, so you quit playing feeling happy (though you won't 
 want to quit playing) . If you want a challange, you can download an upgrade so the opponent actually 
 moves! But it stops before finishing, so you can still win. 
  
  Big rigs has an excellent music score, filled with music that you will want to download to your 
 ipods and listen to all day long. 
  
  This game has excellent physics. YOu can do whatever you want in your magical truck. The trucks 
 look great, and you will want to ditch your current car for one.
  
  Don't listen to gamespot. This game is revolutionary. Once you play this game, you will sell your 
 other games to buy more big rigs to spread around. It is great family fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: United_We_Fall
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  I dont know if it's just me, but i find this game to be an astonishing, breathtaking, magnificent, 
 one of a kind game that everyone should have. I first played it at a friend's house and I kinda 
 like envied him for being able to play this game whenever he wants. I mean really.. it's not that 
 it's that expensive. I went to a store and found it at a remarakble price. It was $3.00. However, 
 i had to show my friend that i wasnt jealous of him so I didnt buy it.
  
  From the very short time my friend has let me play this game (he wanted me to stop playing.. i 
 wonder why???) i must say as i have previously stated, this is a game made by God. It grows on 
 you u know.. 
  
  Anyway, there is a wide selection of trucks u can choose from before starting the race (five or 
 four rigs) . Then u have to choose one of the multiple maps that the game features. Surprisingly, 
 one of those maps didnt work... But i said ok.. It's not the quantity we're after it's the quality, 
 right? So i selected one.
  
  After that, it was all "asta la vista baby"... The loading time it took for the race to start was 
 approx. 3-5 min. When the game placed u in the vehicle u can actually see the graphical details 
 around the map. 
  
  Ready! Set! GO!
  
  So i accelerated... after a while i pressed the breaks (the truck instantly came to a halt) and 
 went back to find my opponent bcz he wasnt behind me... I found my opponent waiting at the beginning.. 
 he must have probably been waiting for judgement day to come. But then, all of a sudden, I thought... 
 Hey?? This game probably doesnt have AI in it... And i was right bcz i took the liberty to make 
 thorough examinations and my diagnosis concluded that the developers had mysteriously forgotten 
 to create AI. But again who needs the AI right? It's just a bunch of developers' talking to make 
 their jobs seem more challenging.
  
  Oh yeah, I almost forgot.. unfortunately, the sound of the engine of my truck couldnt be heard 
 maybe bcz of that track (music) the developers chose to play throughout the whole game. My dear 
 friend couldnt take it so... the only solution he found to remove his misery was to actually pull 
 his ears off.. It was a tragedy.. that day must have been like Pearl Harbor... ther was blood everywhere.. 
 coming out of his ears.. and then he still could hear that song playing in his mind so he started 
 licking his blood off the floor and walls and ceilings in order to calm himself down.
  
  Anyways, overall, this game is outstanding and undescribable through words therefore u need to 
 buy it in order to feel the fast-paced, humongous-sized adrenaline all hardcore gamers that own 
 this game must have felt while playing..
  
  P. S: I feel obligated to say that whoever doesnt own this game and leads at the moment a pathetic, 
 boring life shud go buy this game immediately in order to live a happy, healthy and wealthy life 
 from now on... (all this at the price of 5 dollars) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roysensei
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 12, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I can honestly say this is the greatest game ever! Do you love racing other trucks that don't 
 move at all? Do you love speeding up with no top speed and stopping dead the moment you hit the 
 breaks? Do you love avoiding obstacles that you can just, go right on through? Then big rigs is 
 for you.
  
  Firstly I must say, everyone should own a copy of this game, period. It's so fantastic. When I 
 first saw this game, I had my doubts. But this game really pulled through for me! Game Mill really 
 knew what they were doing.
  
  In Big rigs, you choose between 4 different trucks, none which play differently at all. Then, you 
 race your truck against another truck that doesn't even move! After you finish the race, you are 
 greeted with the words:
  "You're Winner!" Don't worry about losing, it's impossible.
  
  There is pretty much NO sound at all in the game. The controls handle fine. See you have no top 
 speed, you can go on and on at 999 mph if you want! And once you step off the gas, you come to 
 an immediate screeching halt. Wait, take out the screeching, there isn't any noise! 
  
  Going over a bridge? Nah, you'll just dive right under it. There's no pesky collision detection 
 at all! Got a big boulder in the way? Just run right through it! This game has it all. Heck you 
 can go out of game space! This is a MUST buy!
  
  For my final words, you need to own this game, period. Go pick up a copy today! I'm gonna get back 
 to playing it now!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Please help me.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGnintendoFAN
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 8, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Fortunatly for me I rented this game for the absolutly shortest I could. Something made me want 
 to play this game and I belive it was the sin side of me.
  
  This is a perfect example of how bad a game can possibly be. The game is you raccing a static truck. 
 You have to avoid object in your path by clipping trough them and ridding straight up mountains. 
 You can also avoid thoose hazards lurking outside the level boundrys by simply floating over them 
 in a bounce spin.
  
  At least the main atraction of the game is the graphics which are fairly decent if your talking 
 about the terrain. Make sure to warn people your reversing at the same speed as you did before 
 you reversed without a slow down by using your floating rear lights. But hey they beat the sound 
 which is some techno beat looping over and over and over again.
  
  So here is what to do... DONT play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penny670
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  You all have heard the story. Posted on the forum with YOUR A WINNER!, and made countless other 
 jokes about Big Rigs. But really I think this game is really good... at sucking. I mean the devolpers 
 had to know that this game was garbage when they were making so it must have been on prupose. The 
 sheer number of glithces make me think this. Because who in there right mind would release a game 
 that needed atleast a years more work. So it is a really awful game, but truth be told its really 
 fun to play. You'll find your self laughing so hard it hurts. Really so hard that you have to stand 
 up and leave to avoind feeling tremendoius pain. Also what other game makes you laugh and has us 
 talking about it so much. So if you buy it and have fun it doesn't mean your in the church of winner. 
 just like any other game is a classic this one is too. Going through bridges, flying over gray, 
 and murdering your oppoinets no matter what. Over all if you need a good laugh buy big rigs, because 
 its just stupid fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGBORONBBQ
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 5, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  The above game is simply awe-strucking. Since the day I heard the first letter of its title came 
 out from an employee at Circuit City, I knew I was in for a place in Eden. Seriously. The game's 
 graphics and its wonderful title is what catches your attention. The developers, who have been 
 in the gaming industry since the 17-th century, spent trillions of bucks and several decades to 
 develop this game, with the help of a million employees... alright, I'll now introduce you to its 
 amazing visuals. The game's engine can render one petamillion polygons per millisecond, and runs 
 at a frame rate of several thousand frames per second. It incoroporates high technology that allows 
 it to render extreme HDRs, particle effects, supercool yet realistic vehicle physics (the physics 
 are so awesome that my cat spontaneous combusted while watching my 18 wheelers plunging into an 
 endless hole. That's because the developers made many wormholes on the track to teach the gamers 
 about quantum physics. Educational game too!) , etc. and yet it can be run on SNES technology. 
 Extreme optimization was made so that this game can run on any machine. The game's AI is just as 
 amazing. The computer drives better than professional drivers, or for some of the road rage purposes, 
 better than drive-by thugs and America's top polices. The trucks you race ( the racer's amount 
 will range from 1-1000) against will be relentless-they can crash, they can pedal to the metal, 
 and they have the latest in car technology like hybrid-car machines, super cylinders, etc. Additionally, 
 they can haul more goods than your truck, which means that you will sometimes have to make two 
 courier runs in order to haul the same amount of goods that your competitor can haul. That's right, 
 beside crossing the finish line, you have to haul goods too. And instead of feeling it's a burden, 
 pulling the goods actually gets fun after a while... wait, the competition don't stop there. After 
 being ticketed more than Lindsay Lohan's family, you are on the most wanted list for speeding. 
 Police will be around too, and once you reaches several hundred mph, their choppers will move in 
 (that goes the same for your competitions too) . So, you will feel the need to pump up your speed 
 to several million mile per hour to beat your other trucks and the cops. Plus, the cops can deploy 
 road blocks, and sometimes the police even pull out their guns to do drive by on you. However, 
 you can always fight back by purchasing stuff such as your own gun, rocket launcher, oil slick, 
 camoflague cloak, neutrino shield, etc. SIMPLY AMAZING! I CAN FEEL THE SPEED RUSHING THROW MY VEINS 
 RIGHT NOW!!!! AND IT ONLY GETS FASTER AND FASTER UNTIL I TEAR THE WORLD APART AND DOMINATE THE 
 WORLD!!!! MWHAHA SPEED WORLD DOMINATION! THE GAME'S THAT AMAZING!!! PURE FUN 100 TIMES BETTER THAN 
 RESISDENT EVIL AND LEGEND OF ZELDA AND TEKKEN AND HALF LIFE AND NINJA GAIDEN AND GRAND THEFT AUTO 
 AND HALO AND COMMAND AND CONQUER AND BATTLEFIELD AND FINAL FANTASY COMBINED!!!... ok, I'll calm 
 down now. The gameplay, in short, is just plain awesome and OVER THE... TOP. Ok, that should give 
 you some adrenaline rush, now let's get to the sounds. The sounds are so good and realistic. I 
 feel like it's in a movie, or in real life!!! You can hear the engine running and birds chrip and 
 stuff, and the in-game music played by top musician such a big orchestra, Green Day, Poison the 
 Well, In Flames... and oh, let's get to the replay. The amount of CG cutscenes and the 10000+ tracks 
 and trucks is absoulutely amazing! I spent millions of years playing this and I never get tired. 
 THIS GAME IS PLAIN RIGISM HOLINESS! IN FACT, they made a Church of Big Rigs that uphold the quality 
 of this pastor-approved game! AWESOME! TOO BAD THAT EVEN THOUGH THIS GAME IS SO FAMOUS AND GOOD 
 AND SOLD  copies, the Stell company 
 retired and didn't even realize their success! Oh well, BUY THIS GAME NOW!!! It's worth your every 
 penny! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCubeN24
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 4, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I have played ALLOT of games in my life.... some good and some bad. But no game ever compares to 
 the shear train wreck Big Rigs is. Its imposable to describe how bad this game is with words. Its 
 a racing game with little to no sound, no AI in your fellow drivers, no physics and no graphics. 
 This game is soo bad its almost laughable. There are better racing games on Candystand. con and 
 they are free. The fact this game has a 5$ price tag cannot save this sin gaming.... There are so 
 many other better ways to spend five dollars like, buying five things off the dollar menu at McDonald's, 
 buying an Xbox live arcade game, buying a...... ok, anything is better then buying this game. And 
 please, don't buy this game to see just how bad it is because it will just give more money to Stellar 
 Stone and give them the impression that making half hearted games is ok................ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadshotDavido7
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  I praise Stellar Stone, the developement team who created this absolute masterpiece, that will 
 undoubtedly spawn numerous and highly successful sequels, including an Academy-Award winning movie. 
 Do not believe those philistines, BIG RIGS: OVER THE ROAD RACING is the REAL DEAL, it is inconceivably 
 WHERE IT IS AT. Tell your friends, your family, your dog/cat/gerbil, even tell your neighborhood 
 crackpot about this game, and encourage them to buy it.
  
  This game is INEXPLICABLY the MOST SUCCESSFUL INVENTION SINCE SLICED BREAD WITH CHOCOLATE SPREAD. 
 
  
  Buy this game now. Yes, now.
  
  PS. Chicks dig BIG RIGS: OVER THE ROAD RACING. 
  
  PPS. Jessica Alba loves this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tompzone
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 18, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Thi is by far the worst game in HISTORY man i mean it
  
  Pros:
  -It was a gift
  - Used the disk as a freesbe and the burned it
  -At least everyone knows that this game SUCKS
 
  
  Cons: (my god where do i start)
  -THIS GAME SUCKS
  -Very bad graphics
  -The enemy truck doesnt move at all (really you are racing with yourself)
  -If you download the 
 update the enemy truck moves but it never crosses the finish line so you always win
  -The last track makes the game crash
  -When u go reverse the truck can go faster than the speed 
 of light (really it never stops until you release the button) and when you release the button it 
 automatically stops my record is 2356764 MPH
  -There are no limits for this game meaning: you can go thorough everithing EVERITHING lampposts, 
 gas stations, MOUNTAINS (sometimes you climb them but you never lose speed)
  -When u drive off the road you never slow down 
  -Did i mention this game sucks??
  -Man the 
 persons who created this game should go to hell or at least get their ass kicked for this and worst 
 for selling it
  -In other words this game SUCKS, it was a waste of time and you cant even apprecciate it even if 
 its a gift (believe me this is the worst gift you can get) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SK64killer
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  Big rigs destroys the competition with its amazing graphics and physics. 
  big rigs's revolutionary go anywhere do anything, and define your own laws gameplay is simply the 
 most innovative thing ever made. I have been playing this game sinsce its release day and I haven't 
 been bored. With recent rigology breakthroughs like unlocking hidden cars and level 4, the game 
 never loses its replay value. Another thing about Big Rigs is the amazing bang for te buck. Anyone 
 can afford big rigs, and the requirements are very low compared to the amazing graphics. It must 
 be the best optimized game ever. There are no flaws to this game. The soundtrack features very 
 hip techno songs which fill your heart with warmth as you run from the police in your Big Rig.
 
  
  THIS GAME IS AWSOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rome_212
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 18, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  This is a disaster!!!!!! A complete disgrace to the family of PC games and a disgrace to games 
 everywhere!!!!!!!! This is one hell of a disaster that it is a MUST to run for your lives!!!!!!!! 
 Don't let the cover fool you!!!!!!! I don't have much to say about this game. The gameplay SUCKS!!!!!!!! 
 Not just the gameplay, the GAME!!!!!!!! Too easy and boring as hell!!!!!!! I'd rather do some of 
 the worst things than go through more of this CRUD!!!!!!!!
  
  The graphics are some of the WORST I've ever seen for the PC!!!!!!!! Everything looks muddy if 
 you know what I mean, and some things are just solid and flat!!!!!!! They actually made my eyes 
 sore, no kidding!!!!!!!! They are vomit inducing!!!!!!!
  
  Even the rest of EVERYTHING in this game is deplorable!!!!!!!! Playing this game for more than 
 10 minutes is akin to waiting at the dentist to have a root canal surgery!!!!!!!! In fact, it's 
 even worse than that!!!!!! Do not buy the game, don't even LOOK at it!!!!!!!! Even if you get it 
 for free, crush it and burn it and throw it in the stinkiest dumpster where it belongs!!!!!!!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnr
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  Come on. You can drive your truck OFF of the world geometry. I totally agree with the GameSpot 
 official rating. Everything is broken here. There is no terminal velocity when you go backwards. 
 After holding down the backwards key for a few seconds, I saw that the speed meter said something 
 that was 30 times the speed of light... how poor is that? The truck's back lights are actually 
 not attached to the back. And also, there is absolutely no clipping in this game, except for collisions 
 with the world geometry. You can drive your truck through houses. The engine treats water like 
 solid ground. Almost every entity is non- existent in here. I don't get why any publisher would 
 want to publish this game. Oh, right... The publisher is a company that I haven't even heard about 
 and is probably run by the same guy that made this game. I don't get how anyone would enjoy this 
 game. Those people that rated above 7 for this game have to check out some other games. Buy something 
 like Half-Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazaila
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 11, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  In recent years, we've been exposed to terrible games. Some bad in graphics, some in gameplay. 
 While a bad game has as much pros as cons, big rigs is a whole different story. I'm not going to 
 take very long explaining this horrific tragedy, but i'll do my best.
  
  Gameplay, actually, there's no such thing as gameplay in big rigs. You basically start off the 
 game racing other cars, Yeh, funny thing is, there's no other rigs, you're trying to get to the 
 finish line. Yeh, that's great and all, but when you don't even start and it says, you're winner, 
 that really doesn't help. When your driving you'll clip through basically anything you see. So 
 there's no gameplay.
  
  Graphics horrible, i'd rather 8 bit graphics. Sound, there's actually no sound to be found here, 
 and replay value, amazingly bad. 
  
  So is big rigs a bad game, Hell yeh it is. The worst game i've ever played. Put it this way, if 
 you go shopping and see big rigs, the only reason you'd get it is to laugh at it with your friends, 
 in a final statement, do not play this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinobi20000
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 7, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Words cannot describe how horrible that was......... (accept for those) I don't actually own this 
 game but my friend showed it to me as a joke. 
  
  The graphics are absolutely horrible, the developers could not have spent more than a couple of 
 hours working on this game, and it shows. The poorly animated "BIG Rigs" will clip through absolutely 
 anything and everything. Even while driving over bridges your tires stay on the terrain below making 
 it absolutely useless. In fact your tires never seem to loose contact with the ground, not even 
 when speeding off a cliff at over 60 mph. Likewise you can also drive back up those cliffs at 60 
 mph with no resistance. The acceleration of the trucks is also very unrealistic.
  
  As if the game play was not horrible enough already, the poor, annoying, and infinitively looping 
 tech-no tracks just complement it's lack of game play. As for the game itself it has absolutely 
 no sound aside from the tech-no loops. 
  
  This game is overpriced at one dollar and is not even worth the ranks of the general bargain bin
 
  
  This game is absolutely horrible and is a complete waste of time I urge everyone not to play it, 
 ever. You have been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skeet1983
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 5, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I read all the reviews for this game, saw the gameplay footage, watched the video review and still 
 thought this game looked fun to play. I then got the game for my birthday and found out that my 
 dad bought it from eBay for a mere 8 dollars. To me, it sounded like that price tag was too good 
 to be true. Was a game THIS good really worth only a mere 8 bucks? I of course had to play the 
 game myself to find out the truth....
  
  Oh dear, where can I even begin? All I can say is to play this and find out yourself how much of 
 a WINNER this game really and actually is.
  
  I give this game a 10 out of 10, probably since I thought every single thing in this "game" was 
 funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gela
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  big rigs's revolutionary go anywhere do anything, and define your own laws gameplay is simply the 
 most innovative thing ever made. I have been playing this game sinsce its release day and I haven't 
 been bored. With recent rigology breakthroughs like unlocking hidden cars and level 4, the game 
 never loses its replay value. Another thing about Big Rigs is the amazing bang for te buck. Anyone 
 can afford big rigs, and the requirements are very low compared to the amazing graphics. It must 
 be the best optimized game ever. There are no flaws to this game. The soundtrack features very 
 hip techno songs which fill your heart with warmth as you run from the police in your Big Rig.
 
  
  THIS GAME IS WINNER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave_stoj_92
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 2, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  I have played a lot of bad games, (and I could bore you with a list, but I won't) this is honestly 
 the most monumentally stupid game ever created. It redefines the phrasebad game". The game is 
 short, easy, incredibly glitchy and has absolutely no replay value. This is what makes this game 
 so funny.
  
  Lets talk graphics, 80s "pong-style" graphics. The vehicle models are low-poly and crap, the terrain 
 is crap. The textures are crap. Lighting, particle effects, physics. You guesses it... crap. The 
 phrase "collision detection" does not exist in the vocab of the game's producers, because it seems 
 they never bothered to have any. You can, without difficulty, drive through anything supposedly 
 "solid" except the ground. You even literally drive through bridges. The levels have no boundaries, 
 you can drive right off the edge of the racecourse and sink through eternal nothingness for as 
 long as you like. The games physics are questionable. You can drive up steep hills without losing 
 any speed at all. A three year old, mentally retarded person with a 25 year old computer can program 
 better graphics.
  
  Sound- what sound? There a literally no sound effects for this game and the music is some sort 
 of crappy techno-metal loop.
  
  The gameplay is great, and by "great" I mean absolute **** The drivers of the trucks racing against 
 you are autistic or something because they never race against you. The game A. I. is totally obsolete. 
 Even the slightest reverse will cause you to spin around in circles insanely. If you're looking 
 for an overpriced prozac replacement look no further. If it'll raise your self esteem just that 
 little bit by being told "you're winner" 2 seconds after you begin a race than its totally worth 
 it.
  
  Well all-in-all the games gives you a ten minute laugh and doubles as prozac, but that's not really 
 what people want in a good game.
  
  It's not the worst game ever, at least it's sort-of funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phanth0m
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 1, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I found this game in my basement, I thought to myself "Hey this looks fun, why not!". Let's get 
 this started... the driving... well, there's lots of it... you drive through bridges and houses, the 
 opponent doesn't even move, and you almost as fast backwards than forwards. This game is as fun 
 as taking a rusty spoon covered in barbwire, vinegar, and rusty dirty needles to the face multiple 
 times and gouging your eye out with a 5mm pin. The only possible aspect is to give this to that 
 one fat cousin you have that no one likes for some kind of birthday present or to entertain a friend 
 with the sheer comedic gameplay of this horrid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bbird
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 29, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  It wasn't as good as most pc racing games.. such as moto racer that came free with my windows 95 
 but It's great in it's own right.
  
  This rip-snorting racing game has great replay-ability... mostly because it has no playability whatsoever.
 
  
  It's easy to pick up and just play.
  
  It's a very free roaming environment and is very fast paced. I mean, the truck can do 0-60 in nothing 
 flat.
  
  Thank goodness that the truck never crashes... EVER.. so there's virtually no violence.
  
  
 And you always WIN! It does wonders for my self esteem.
  
  I'd recomend this game to anyone who wants a great racing game, without the hassle of actually..... 
 racing...
  
  Me and my second cousin from my uncle's side are both waiting for a sequel.
  
  Oh yea... You're winner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stephant_6
Rating: 1
Date: May 20, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  This game is actually so bad that I think this weird company must have made this game as a prank.
 
  
  Gameplay:1/10
  There is none its just driving through a bunch of houses and falling through bridges! The only 
 thing that you dont go right through in this game is the ground! (thank god for that)
  
  Graphics:1/10
  These graphics would have been appropriate for 1990. Theyre so horrible theyre 
 just blocks with no senery except for grass... Ye like grass?
  
  Sound:1/10
  As many others have remarked, there is no sound. No racing sounds, no engine sounds, no crashing sounds (that 
 would be true if you COULD crash into things) The only sounds is the same song that just digs into 
 youre brain and it feeds on you until you can never forget the song, the BLOODY SONG!
  
  Value:1/10
  I dont think you even need me to talk about this part.
  
  Seriously I pitty anyone 
 who even thinks this game is OKAY! I seriously dont know why it came out, what the hell they were 
 thinking when they made it. But seriously just stay away.... Run!!!! SAVE YOURSELF!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomas223
Rating: 1
Date: May 13, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 1/100
  WHAT WERE PEOPLE  iT'S like you make a buch of polygons and 
 put them together then put some retarted music from like the prehistoric ages and slap it all on 
 a disc.
  
  Gameplay: NONE
  It's so easy because you just drive through everything, go 170 mph up a 80 degree mountain incline 
 and then start flipping and floating and then respawning in the same exact place yow WERE. You 
 can back up at 190 mph and spin in circle for hours
  
  Sound: Uhhhhh Ummmm....
  Theres no sound. At all. No engine noises, no collision noises, no collision, only that 1 fruitty 
 song. Get a life, dont play this game. Pretty please with sugar and don't gat this game and this 
 sucks and i can go on forever on top?
  
  Value: 0
  
  I'm serious, DON'T GET IT
  
  (Sorry for any grammar or spelling mistakes, I just didn't care because this game is a discrace 
 to rigs and games so you might as well put a pencil in your disc tray because it is more intelligent 
 than this game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brotherbraak
Rating: 1
Date: May 17, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  What good is a game that you cannot even play? I thought it must be at least a deal for a dollar. 
 And its not. I miss that dollar. Big Rigs fails miserably. The cover is false too. There are no 
 cops in the game. It isn't Need for Speed. The game features you and another truck which sadly 
 never moves. The game will commonly freeze. You can't even control the car at times. The computer 
 will turn on auto-pilot and drive it for you. Poor collision detection and un-needed flips of your 
 truck in mid-air make this one of the worst games ever. The computer can take hours to complete 
 a race due to so many bugs. This boils down to a piece of poo. Lets review- no collision detection, 
 crappy auto-pilot, and un-needed crappy physics. This game; with so many "good reviews" already 
 gives away the fact that it isn't worth a penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthBlade100
Rating: 1
Date: May 8, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  The company Stellar Stone must have been high when making this game because it is so horrible that 
 ounce you start playing you'll stop as soon as possible and possibly break the disc in fustration 
 of buying it. I mean what is the point of playing if you ALWAYS win. The AI is non-existant, you 
 can't go over bridges, and there pretty much are no physics. Please for the love of all good games 
 on the PC DO NOT buy or play this game. If you do, and you are one of those idiots who like it, you 
 should just quit playing games now. The final word: this is the dumbest game ever created 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan_360
Rating: 1
Date: May 8, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  The company that made this must have been high when making this game because it is so horrible 
 that ounce you start playing you'll stop as soon as possible and possibly break the disc in fustration 
 of buying it. I mean what is the point of playing if you ALWAYS win. The AI is non-existant, you 
 can't go over bridges, and there pretty much are no physics. Please for the love of all good games 
 on the PC DO NOT buy this game. If you do, and you are one of those idiots who like it, you should 
 just quit playing games now. The final word: this game sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: for_the_fallen
Rating: 1
Date: May 7, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  I AM WINNER. This game is so good it inspired a whole religion. (Well it's more a humorous cult 
 than any kind of organized fellowship) . Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing promises excitement, action 
 and adventure - and delivers none of those things.
  
  Big Rigs is the demon of the gaming world. It is the ultimate boss in any video game, the satan 
 of the gameplay kingdom - and it is a force to be reckoned with.
  
  Should you buy this game? Yes. Most definetly yes - if you care about the Video Games industry 
 BUY THIS GAME, and place it on your shelf - play it once and once only, and be a part of gaming 
 history.
  
  What is the problem with Big Rigs?
  
  - To put it simply: It does not work.
  
  Think about what happens when you look at a beach 
 and imagine building a sandcastle. You then take a photo of this beach and declare it to be a sandcastle. 
 You finally sell that "Sandcastle" for $100 on E-Bay. Is the buyer happy? No. Are you happy? Damn 
 right you are - you just got $100 for nothing.
  
  Stella-Star (creators of Big Rigs) obviously had one thing on their agenda when they created this 
 game - and that is profit. Either that or they really did want to exemplify how not to make a game. 
 
  
  Please, please, please try this game - it's hilarious!
  
  *DISCLAIMER: Anyone who says big rigs is bad and has not played it is instantly declared LOSER. 
 Anyone who says big rigs is bad and has played it is also instantly declared LOSER. 
  
  Everyone else: YOU'RE WINNER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitchcode
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 2, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I've played this game from time to time, and in comparison to the other games in the market, this 
 game truly defines the vision of a perfect game. 
  
  Gameplay: Beautiful. Everything is beautiful. The AI, the uhhhhh.... things, and uhhhh.... yeah.
 
  
  Gameplay: There's a lot of eye candies, but this game do have some flawed grahpics. But putting 
 that aside Big Rigs is still a very very playable game.
  
  Sound: There is not really much in game music to distract me from the gameplay, the developer of 
 this game really know what they are doing, I could finish a whole round, without some music blocking 
 the sound effects.
  
  Value: It's about $10, which is very cheap, but it could be a bit cheaper, I mean there is only 
 5 maps, uhh 4 maps, you could spend a lot of time playing this but 4 maps isn't enough. 
  
  Tilt: What is a tilt? Must be some kind of pizza.
  
  Conclusion: Stop whatever you are doing, 
 go to Ebay or some other online store, and get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omgwtfhax69
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Gamplay:
  The gameplay is incredible. You can pick between several BADASS trucks, each with their own stats 
 and special abilities. The racing is hardcore and the action is fast paced and it never seems to 
 slow down. ever. Your truck can even do sweetass spin moves and is so badass, it can drive over 
 and through anything. In fact, your truck is so badass that it doesn't need bridges and can easily 
 drive through them. The best part about this game is that it is so challenging. The AI is incredible. 
 It is so intelligent that it doesn't even need to prove itself by doing anything. Just knowing 
 this makes the game so rewarding when you win. Many people say that it is impossible to lose in 
 this game but I beg to differ. Those people are using hacks and it makes it seem like it is too 
 easy so they have no right to be judging this game.
  
  Graphics:
  The trucks look so badass and the environments are totally gorgeous. I coulda sworn this was a 
 next-gen game when I first saw it. The textures are brilliantly designed as well. I especially 
 like the part when you drive up a mountain and into this endless field of snow. The snow field 
 was very well designed and added variety to the terrain. Overall the graphics were simply stunning.
 
  
  Sound:
  This game has the most brilliant soundtrack ever. It is just one song looping repeatedly but this 
 doesn't matter because it sounds so good. There aren't any sound effects which is actually a good 
 thing. Sound effects are only distractions that will only distract you and keep you from paying 
 attention to the intense gameplay.
  
  Value:
  A game this good for only $10? Hell yea. This game has incredible replay value and is worth over 
 $100. $10 sounds like a dream come true.
  
  Tilt:
  This game is just so amazing and it repeatly delivers the high quality truck racing gameplay that 
 you crave. Personally, I loved this game to death and couldn't possibly score it low.
  
  Bottom Line:
  This game is magnificent compared to any truck racing game, or any game for that 
 matter. This game is perfect and is simply over the top, or better yet, Over The Road. If you think 
 You're Winner then you better buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enriquecruz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Where can i start to say what makes this game so great, in my opinion its because its completely 
 orginal and like i said i breaks standardS giving it a twist never done before.
  
  The days where phisics and detailed graphics were important are over since this game was released, 
 from now on everyone who played this game knows this, because what is the fun in crashing when 
 you can go through everything as they were some sort of hollogram ( personally i think this is 
 great and i think the idea of mixing a truck racing game with starwars and sci-fi tech is great) ; 
 why obey normal laws of phisics when you can just climb a mountain at 90 degrees and simply; continue 
 driving trough nothing (actually it is a completely white screen but the graphics are so realistic 
 it actually makes you belive you are in te middle of nothing)
  
  The level desings are revolutionary as well since all 5 of the levels (well actually 4 and a minigame) 
 consist on exactly the same thing but with different scenery, for the rest they ar the same, so 
 here there is just anoher thing big rigs revolutionaises (or something) the gaming industry cause 
 with big rigs why have level variety when you can just play the same thing over and over and over 
 and over and over and over and over and over and over again. And like i said before the games consists 
 of 4 levels with a fifth one tha consist of a minigame (wich its actually my favorite) so, the 
 minagme consists in selecting the level and automatically crashing the game and going to windows, 
 fun right i personallty thing its completely creative and doing so (and by that i mena playing 
 the minigame) its how i spent around 50 of the 100+ hours i played and continue playing the game.
 
  
  Anorther great and innovative aspect of the game would be the music since it consists of a completely 
 new music genre never introduced to gaming before this, it is called SILENCE yeah silence i know 
 what your thinking, i have the same opinioni think this is great yeah i mean why lisent to high 
 cuality audio effects and music when you can virtualy listen to nothing (well exept you heart beat 
 pounding with exitement) when your playing the game.
  
  The controls as the whole game it self are revoltuinory (i really like the word) and they are so 
 well made that it will take you more than four hours to master them and be abe to brake from unlimited 
 velocity to 0 km in less tha 1 second (WOW what a truck) and it also takes a lot of practice to 
 be able to take sharp (and by sharp i mean instant 90 degrees shift in direction) and still be 
 able to manuever your truck trough all the well placed hollograms in the enviromet.
  
  To end my review i like to tell you aboute the greates achivement big rigs made, it is so good 
 tha scientst are now using big rigs in therapys to raise self confidence and value yeah thats right 
 and this is done becouse you are allways a winner in this game yes, it is imposible to lose, your 
 oponent never even moves from the starting line so you can win and to make things better if you 
 press tab (if you press it more than twice it will serve as a alternate way in to the minigame 
 and big rigs will crash and take you to windows desktop) during a race you swithc trucks and drive 
 the computers one but it is still imposible to lose because if you finish the race with the computers 
 truck your still are winner just not the same you starteds the race with.
  
  In conclusion BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chain81
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  I had heard so much about this "big Rigs" extraveganza. So I decided to investigate for myself. 
 I installed the software. And it began. The greatest moment of my life. Amazing techno loops, no 
 sound, DEFYING LAWS OF PHYSICS, and Superior trucks. I played this game for seventeen days straight 
 before burning due to the fact that it was too spectacular for my ming to handle.
  Graphics: Not only are the enviornments luch and full of detailed grass, trees, mountains, and 
 houses. But the trucks were... fenominal. Every detailed tire mark, every blade of grass, was exceptionally 
 beautiful.
  
  Gameplay: Racing games have followed the same pattern of: Crash into houses, go over bridges, Don't 
 drive vertically over a 3000 foot mountain? 
  Well all that changed. In Big Rigs allowed one to pass untouched through a 2 story building, drop 
 unexpectedly from a ghost bridge, and not even take a scratch. One can also pass into infinity!!!! 
 Gray nothing. If you think this is exciting, just wait and see what your truck does. The truck 
 cannot handle this intensity, argo, it spasms.... simply .Amazing...
  
  Everything else: I dont care what they say. The vallue of this game is the only imperfection. You 
 will not be able to comprehend the greatness of this game because its intensity will not allow 
 you to play it moch more that 20 hours. This game is truely..... legendary.
  Get it. Share my passion. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevi
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 30, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  how can you even pretend that you like this game? you cant play with sarcasm here. graphics.... i 
 would rather intellevision.. at least there was dedication on graphics. gameplay.. as long as youre 
 a person w/out self esteem, youll love watching the "youre winner" screen over and over and over.... 
 sound. well, lucky me. my speakers dont work, and.... hey! i have an ipod. value........ em, you 
 can use the disc as a frisbee for your dog, and use the box for storing pencils...
  
  last word: i have a gamecube, a playstation 2, an xbox 360, a nintendo ds and a psp... i think itll 
 be fun giving this to a blind vagabond
  
  p. s: i rated every 10.0 review as not helpful. no offense to you guys, but cut it. 1 or 2 times 
 it is but more becomes irritating. looks like gamespot its not making justice here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qazxcft
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 15, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  It was a dark and stormy night, the atmosphere encompassed an aura of a unique evil, exclusively 
 possible through the seemingly ordianry cd-rom titled 'Big Rigs: Over the road Racing.' I Remember 
 the day vividly as though it were yesterday, because sadly enough this all occured 24 hours ago. 
 I still recall placing the cd in my cd-rom drive, it screeched akwardly as it reluctantly retracted 
 the cd into itself, my tower shaking in fear, lights flashing red in a frenzy, perhaps warning 
 me...
  'its ok' i whisper soothingly, 'i know, ive read the reviews'
  
  But if i knew, why did i purchase this game? for the same reason as many... the guilty pleasure 
 of playing the currently titled 'worst game ever made'
  
  The graphics in this game will blow ur mind, possibly because you will have commit suicide with 
 a shotgun kurt cobain style. The environments are vast, wide open fields of nothingness, this is 
 particularly literal when you enter the gray realms of limitless space, which is also seizure inducing 
 as your truck chucks spazms, possibly of anger....'why am i here!' the machine screams.
  
  Sound? i resorted to dubbing the sound effects in my mind...'broooom' 
  
  If you have ever 
 wondered of must be like to live in the shoes of a mental patient, by all means, purchase this 
 game and drive through all objects you encounter.... im sure even a mental patient couldnt handle 
 the sheer insanity of this game. Simply put the controls are of a unique creater, who is most probably 
 insane.
  
  This game WILL bring a tear to your eye, whether from utter dissapointment or absolute joy soley 
 depends on how insane you are... i know i cried from absolute joy, MUAHAHAHAHAHA!!! (crazy professor 
 type laugh) 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Notoria
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  This game is without any kind of doubt one of the worst game on the face of the planet. There is 
 no story, god-awful graphics, you name it. I mean the game lets you can ride up mountains and do 
 a Matrix-style wall-run with your truck without slowing down. There is practically no physics engine 
 and you can go into a village and go through homes. I have nothing nice to say about this game, 
 absolutely nothing. When Alex Navarro reviewed this game I could almost pray for his soul, having 
 to sit through this game of craptacular evil. The game is supposedly a steal at 20 bucks, but like 
 a great man once said: there are games in this world that lurch and elevate your lunch ever higher 
 when you play, this is one of those games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedgreece
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 9, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Most of you have looked at most of the reviews, Well all you hear is vomet, DO NOT BUY, Five bucks 
 is not worth it, Ect. Well this game is is the very first 1.0 gamespot has ever given in the history 
 of gaming, thats how bad it is. Gamespot have given out 1.1-10.0 in ratings but never a 1.0, so 
 if your a gamer who loves truck racing, don't buy this game for the sake of your family. it would 
 be great for a joke or something but don't buy it to play. I have never heard of a 0.4 for reviews 
 in my life but here it is, The WORST game ever, Big Rigs Racing. I want to give out a 0.2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forlorn79
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 1, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I've never laughed so hard about any game, ever.
  
  Watching the review or describing it to your friends is enough to make you roll on the floor. Playing 
 it is only half of the fun! Showing it off to your friends is a riot.
  
  Gameplay: Bad, since you always win, and the controls are sluggish. The levels are not inspired, 
 and there's no physics or hit detection, but that's part of the fun. There's just not enough variety.
 
  
  Graphics: Nice, but they are unfinished. You'll see lots of errors, but they aren't major. It seems 
 like most of the time spent on this game was making the game look good, rather than functional.
 
  
  Sound: Silence, although it does have one of the most amazing background music tracks I've ever 
 heard. The sound seems like it didn't get finished, or even started!
  
  Value: Cheap (if you can find it) and one disk can go a long way among friends. You won't play 
 it for hours, so let your friends have a turn. Just skip a meal and buy it!
  
  Tilt: After over a year, this game still wows me. There are only a handful of games that you absolutely 
 must show to your friends, and this is one of those games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juanito5
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 1, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  Well I've played very bad games but none such as Big Rigs.
  A truck racing game which doesn't have a objective, so, if you are playing in any moment the screen 
 will say "You win!" but why you won, that's unknown.
  The graphics are horrible and as you read in the review is full of glitches.
  When I've buyed 
 it I pressed the right arrow and the truck was spinning, I climbed a vertical mountain without 
 any problem and just when I climbed I was in a stupid grey matter that my car could ride, you can 
 drive in water, there are no physics so you can cross through bridges (But no crossing, you fall 
 down just when you touch the bridge, then there are columns, you pass trough them and you pass 
 the bridge again to get to land) , Houses, etc and there is not speed limit.
  This game sucks in every aspect and 5 f&%$#ing trucks and some tracks that are only the stupid 
 grey matter that I've mentioned.
  The $5.00 price is too expensive for a game like this.
  For the love of god Don't play this  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mish55
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 4, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  big rigs is a horrible game, but even horrible things can be amusing
  like take jaws 4, probably one of the worst sequels ever but people watched it because it was so 
 rediculous.
  
  same for big rigs
  theres nothing good about this game.
  And its really hilarious to see how poorly this game was made.
  
  (personal info) i just showed 
 my friend and we just laughed at how bad it was. Then we would make stupid little challenges in 
 the game (who can fall into the ground the least, or who can go through the track without having 
 problems) it was impossible but fun.
  
  This game is ugly, plays badly, and is just so stupid its ridiculous
  its so bad its good
  
 
  just play it for a laugh, its worth it
  
  its a classic game just for how bad it is because a game cant get any worse 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rilliath
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 28, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I don't even want to waste my precious hands and time writing this review. You all know what to 
 expect from this, so I will leave it at this: "Never speak of Big Rigs... ever".
  
  Well, since I must have at least 100 words, let's talk about how bad this is: Horrible graphics, 
 non-existent gameplay, music that makes "phone-dialing sounds" of the 80s cool, and no replay value. 
 Just, please, for the sake of the current broken website of Stellar Stone and you, the customers, 
 don't buy this. Don't even think about it. I'd rather choke on a cheyenne pepper for entertainment.
 
  
  - Rilliath 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsycoticlySound
Rating: 1.1
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Now, i can go through a detailed, elaborate way of reviewing this game -- scratch that, abomination -- 
 but I'm nice, so I'll just get to the point. This game is worse than being bound and gagged, tethered 
 to the bumper of a truck doing 120 mph, and being forced to watch educational television hosted 
 by Ben Stein for 4 straight days. And that's putting it lightly. The graphics cannot even be called 
 "graphics", because it doesn't look computer-generated, but rather scribbled onto a napkin, eaten, 
 regurgitated, and put onto a disk. The gameplay (If you can call it that) is not even remotely fun 
 or, for that matter, gameplay. I mean since when can a Semi Truck drive up vertical walls, drive 
 through bridges, or go off the map?
  
  And as for the sound. Wait. What's that? Oh, that's right! There is no sound. The developers -- or 
 incompetent dumbed-down amoebas I should say -- could not even include any form of noise to sedate 
 the sheer crappiness of this game. I swear, if these amoebas who created this game were paid, then 
 the videogame market (and life itself) should just cease to exist. I'm sure by now, you have figured 
 out why I gave this game a tilt of 1, but if you cannot comprehend, then I shall repeat myself. 
 It sucks.
  
  There are only 2 good factors about this game. First, I didn't pay for it, I borrowed it from my 
 friend (I feel his pain) . And secondly, it is a hell of a lot of fun to trash and destroy. You want 
 my advice, douse it with lighter fluid and light it. Then throw it to your heart's content. Enjoy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xzcdzdsf
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 30, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  The box says get ready for some CV talking, convoy rollin, action... This is a horrible, horrible 
 lie
  First off, gameplay-Wait! there is no gameplay! because this game is a pile of crap!
  Its very simple, you and your "Opponent", a truck that sits at the starting gate and dosn`t move... Have 
 to race through the roads delivering your "Cargo", before your busted by the long arm of the law! 
 Sound like fun? thats not what happens... There are 4 tracks, one dosn`t even work! and there are 
 4 (Very ugly) trucks. Now, lets say your in a..."race"... about to run into that streetlight? No 
 problem! you clip through EVERYTHING, and I mean EVERYTHING, in this game. Gas stations, lights, 
 bridges, MOUNTAINS?!
  1/10
  Now for graphics
  Well, if you like mountains that look like puke, or big black lines for roads, then you will be 
 content with this game. otherwise... First off, lets talk about the trucks. They look HORRIBLE! 
 Whats with the trailers? You`re supposed to be delivering cargo...... half of the trucks DON`T HAVE 
 FRIGGEN' TRAILERS! Your headlights can also mysteriously float off of your car! Fun! 1/10
  The horrible excuse of sound
  This will be short, considering there is no sound, exept the gayest 
 techno track you will hear in your life! OH MY GOD! there aren`t even any sound effects... the box 
 claims there is CV... that is a horrible lie. 1/10
  
  Rent/Buy: AHAHA! funny joke!-Wait........ you were serious?
  DO NOT RENT NOR BUY THIS GAME! BURN 
 IT TO THE GROUND!
  
  Overall: this game can also be refered to as "suck". save yourself 2 dollars and don`t buy this 
 sad excuse for a game.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ty_123
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 24, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  this is the worse game in the world. i'ts worser then wwe wrestlemaina 21 for the xbox. you can't 
 do a donut you spin spin spin then stops. I bough't this to tease my friend he hated it. sound 
 is just plan, how can i say this, GAY! rent this i'f you wan't to tease your friend then take this 
 in the backyard and set it on fire becasue this game is a piece of **** people who say its great 
 ae plan not right Do not get this its a piece of ****!! AND its so bad you will fall asleep playing 
 this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ratchetcomand
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 24, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This game really sucks major butt this game is 100% broken this game is just as bad as Dragon ball 
 Z ;Untimate battle 22 . 
  
  Gameplay : The gameplay is broken and it so gitchey you can drive throw the building and the game 
 is slow and BROKEN ! 
  
  Graphics : The GPX could been so much beter they look like something from a PS1 , N64 .
  
  
 Sound : The music make me crazy it make my ears go on fire 
  
  Value : Do not bad or Rent or try this game EVER !
  
  Reviewer tilt : WTF Tilt ?
  
  This 
 game is just as bad as Dragon ball Z UB22 , This game give all raceing games bad names . 
  
  This game make every one kill there self ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThunderingSpork
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  If you are a racing fan, a video game fan period, or just a human being, YOU WILL LOVE THIS GAME.
 
  
  Gameplay: WINNER/10: Gameplay is extremely hard, with the only difficulty being "Impossible". Only 
 the true WINNER can make it through one race. It takes hours of practice, but the reward of a trophy 
 with "YOU'RE WINNER!" below it is worth it.
  
  Graphics: WINNER/10: This game's graphics are absolutely amazing. When you first play the game, 
 you'll have to close your eyes for a few seconds so you wont give yourself a headache. But don't 
 worry, the pain goes away as you play the game and explore your inner Big Rig driver. 
  
  Sound: WINNER/10: The sound is stunning, with unlimited choices of background music, such as pop, 
 heavy metal, techno, you name it. Put it on a high quality speakers, and your ears will go into 
 an orgasmic state 'till the cows come home.
  
  Value: WINNER/10: This game is worth more than anything you can possibly imagine, and the only 
 way to receive a copy is if you are a true WINNER, or if Lord Stell pities you.
  
  Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is simply the greatest video game, no, form of entertainment in 
 the entire universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Links_gf
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 15, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  I'll advice you do this if you see this awful game in the bargain bin!
  
  1. Buy it and rip up the reciept
  2. Take the disc outside and into your back garden
  3. Take 
 a screw driver or another desired weapon of choice
  4. Well guess what a screwdriver and a lmao game do?
  5. Take the remains of the disc and put 
 it into the case.
  6. Get a sledgehammer or something simmilar and smash it to pieces.
  7. Take those remains and place it all in a bag
  8. Attach it to a rocket on the night before 
 bonfire night.
  9. Make sure your dad doesn't see it attached to it.
  10. On bonfire night, take delight in watching it burn with the rocket.
  
  If you dont get 
 the picture, this game sux. I advice that if you do buy it, buy it for the above. Never, ever buy 
 a game like this one. This poisoned poison, this polluted pollution and this burnt flames. This 
 basically ripped me off my money. I paid $30 for it and I'll never make that mistake again. Don't 
 ever buy a game that is less than a rating of 3 plz. Thank you, this was Links_gf reporting a bad 
 *** game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wazoski23
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  If you like truck games where you can go under bridges, climb up a 90 degree mountain, drive into 
 midair and do backflips and frontflips with your truck, drive through buildings and reverse at 
 Mach speed this is the game for you. Its full of non-stop action and you will have a blast playing 
 it. It is also very addictive. I ended up spending over 100 hours of my time playing this game. 
 Its definitely a must-have and if you buy it as a present for a relative im sure they will remember 
 it for the rest of their lives!! Trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie6785
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 10, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  "just plain fun" because its fun to see how they could have published a game this awful!! i tried 
 this game just for kicks.. everything is bad.. the graphics are awful.. sound.. gameplay... (if 
 any) .. maybe a good game for those who miss playing with toy trucks.. even so.. its like the developers 
 purposedly sabotaged this game for fun.. to see how awful a game could be.. i tried going to their 
 website and even their links are broken.. the graphics are awful.. if you look at the ground it 
 looks like its painted on! and whats the difference between the rigs? driving them is like theres 
 no friction on the road or gravity.. atari racing games are better in acceleration and physics! 
 this game is plain awful.. im sure the company forgot to finish this game and published it accidentally.. 
 or maybe not.. seeing that they released a patch that does nothing to fix the games errors.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Jump
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  I actually bought a copy of this game from ebay just to see exactly how bad the contents are. The 
 verdict is: the game is boring (for a game, it's not worth playing at all) . 
  
  Since there's already a myriad of other entertaining and fairly accurate reviews, I believe most 
 of what is featured in "Big Rigs" has already been covered. I'll just summarise them here for the 
 benefit of people who just happened to come across this review: No matter what the back of the 
 box says, this is not a race game and it certainly has none of the stuff the game claims to have 
 about hauling cargo, police, racing another truck or a traffic stopper. That is all marketing lies 
 designed to make the game easier to sell. The only thing that is worth doing in this game is driving 
 around to either look at the scenery, the novelty of such a game, or for mindless, humour which 
 will probably fade after 15 minutes or so.
  
  Because there are so many reviews already, I won't bother giving details on everything, but I would 
 like to note however, that the graphics aren't really all that bad as said by everyone else. Yes, 
 it's very poorly designed with entirely obvious glitches in the visuals and the environments are 
 very monotonous and bland, but it's definitely not grade 1 chalk and crayon works - I think the 
 developers deserve some credit for putting their effort into making the environment look very realistic. 
 So while it is boring for a game, it is a pleasure to look at (if you're like me, you'd like driving 
 around, looking at the sky not worrying whether you'd hit anything) . I note also that some of the 
 buildings are not just "card-board cut-outs" or "basic geometric shapes" - when viewed up close, 
 they're actually very nicely textured and look like dilapidated old houses abandoned by the townsfolk. 
 
  
  Of things to note is that, the version that I have reviewed on does indeed have sound (though no 
 music) - you can hear the truck accelerate or break, so it's not entirely bland. The other thing 
 to note is that the infamous "You're Winner" sign that pops up after you win each "race" has been 
 replaced by the grammatically correct but disappointingly less humorous "You Win!" sign.
  
  Overall, this is one shoddy game and I'll give it that much as it is qualified to be called a game, 
 albeit a really badly (or most likely unfinished) designed one. There is absolutely no reason for 
 anyone to buy this game or rent it (if it's even rentable) except to (1) drive around and enjoy 
 the monotonous but realistically pretty scenery, (2) make fun of it, or (3) to claim (proudly) 
 that you own a terrible game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EscoDaddy14
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Big Rigs the next thrilling racing game coming at ya!!!! Sike. 
  This game has achieved less then what I achieved at the age of 1. I could do tons of stuff like 
 eat and poop, and this game cant do anything. LAME.
  
  The graphics are simply devastating to the mind. I turned them to "normal" mode on everything, 
 and was treated to the equivalent of a 1st grader's art skills. Pop-up everywhere, holes in the 
 levels, trucks look like garbage. 
  
  The sounds. Wow, I was begging to hear Ashlee Simpson after this monotonous pile of dukey. You 
 hear 2 sounds, the sound of you going, and the terrible screeching of your breaks. If that wasnt 
 amazing, then I dont know what is.
  
  The AI in this game is undescribable. The way the computer-controlled truck sits there and allows 
 you to beat it into submission is stunning. Once you beat the truck that never moves, guess what? 
 YOU WIN! A game that you win everytime?! It does exist!
  
  There is no variety in anything, just lameness. You get ina random blocky truck, drive around a 
 horrific land of graphics, and get bored in 1 minute.
  THe game doesn't even have a beginning movie!!! Or music!!!!
  
  All I can say is buy it to 
 see what every TERRIBLE game in the world is X's 1,000,000. Its awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  I searched long for the worst game ever produced, though big rigs seems to have both potential 
 and it is pleasant and relaxing to play. Sure it has no sound, no variety, no physics or any other 
 possible thing that could make you consider the game of any value, however it does have quite nice 
 graphics and enjoyable driving accelleration, de-acceleration and steering that are actually quite 
 accurate for trucks.
  
  Besides, like they say, "you're winner!" If you play this game, you will not lose! You don't have 
 to rush to the finish line, you can just sit back and enjoy the ride and pleasant graphics.
  
  If this game had physics beyond steering and acceleration, sound, more variety and a working 
 computer truck then I would have given this above a 5 for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 8, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Alright welcome to my review of big rigs yep the worst game of all time. the game has no phyisics 
 and i don't know it dosen't have anything for crying out loud solitare is way better then this 
 game. Now you may be wondering why i gave this a "Very hard" difficulty or 4 or more hours to learn 
 thats because if you want to win you have to master how NOT to activate the bugs, oh i'm sorry 
 i forgot to mention that when it say, 3,2,1 GO1 you sometimes might instantly win out of no where 
 nobody even know about this game and i'm glad that you don't. this is why i hate every single truck 
 game out there because theirs no pint of them even if GS or IGN give them a 10 i don't care i will 
 never play one of these so called "games" well now your warned that how horrible this game is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickBarry
Rating: 2.1
Date: Mar 7, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Well all I can say is that I hope the people working for Stellar Stone find another company to 
 work for, or some other way to spend their lives. It would probably be a good game, had they programmed 
 the computer cars, lowered the speed, put boundaries on the maps, made map 4 work, and gave buildings 
 some kind of mass. I do think the graphics are good, but then again, I'm not as picky as most other 
 people when it comes to graphics. Apparently all of their other games recieved low ratings too. 
 Also people need to stop ridiculing them because it says "You're Winner!," as they are Russian, 
 and do not speak English. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  Big Rigs, what is it you may ask? But you'd be wrong, what does this game want to be is a more 
 correct question. To that I could answer: ''A truck sim'', ''An arcade racer'' or ''A game''.
 
  
  To put it bluntly this game is just SOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO bad that it's hard to believe any 
 publisher would willing submit itself to such endeavor as to publish this game.
  
  But lemme say it again, this game is so bad that its actually, realistically possible that the 
 programmers didn't spend more then 1 week making this game. And the published more then 5 seconds 
 reviewing it.
  
  But enough talk, lets get down to the facts. And so we engage in what is perhaps my shortest review, 
 of what is certainly, the worst game ever made.
  
  Graphics: 1/10
  
  They're there and that's about it. The 3D models are at least half decent; too bad this game doesn't 
 know what ''clipping'' is. You can go through anything. I mean it. Trees, signposts, buildings, 
 BRIDGES!!!!
  
  Even the terrain features aren't decent enough to be noticed. Rivers appear and disappear out of 
 plains as they wish. Bridges are absolutely useless since you fall right through them, etc. The 
 graphics are, as I said, just there. Nothing more, but certainly a lot less.
  
  Sound: 0/10
  
  This game, in 2004 has no sound effects. Nothing but one lousing looping track 
 as you go through the road.
  
  Gameplay: 1/10
  
  Where do I start? Maybe I should say that this game has only 5 trucks, or that it only has 5 tracks 
 (out of which 1 doesn't work) , or that the AI does not exist but I'll start with the interface.
 
  
  When you start the game up you get what are perhaps the 5 most lousy options ever made in a game: 
 Career play, Random race, settings, high score, credits and quit (PS: Click quit as fast as your 
 mouse is capable of) . That's it.
  
  But no problem. Choose any one of those options, since you will forever get the same result: You're 
 Winner. High scores; useless. The other damn truck doesn't even as much as move. Options... what 
 options this game is already running at the lowest settings possible. Credits? What you didn't 
 already know that this game was made by 3 people on one computer in a weekend? And quit, by far 
 the most divinely of those options. Clicking quit is a sweet relaxing experience... but I can't 
 do it right now for I have to tell you what else is left out of this wreck of a game.
  
  Assuming you choose one of the gameplay related options (random race, and circuit or career race) 
 you will be taken to a selection of trucks. There are 5 to choose. They all handle, drive and feel 
 the same. They can be carrying 300 Tons of nitro-glycerin they will still do 300 MPH while going 
 backwards.
  
  But assuming you do want to race, after you choose a truck you can choose a similarly bland track 
 to race on. Now you can go ahead and try to evade the police and pursuit your goal of delivering 
 you precious cargo to the other end of the track... Say what? There's no cops, competition or cargo? 
 Yup.
  
  The AI doesn't move. It's that easy. It just sits there waiting for you to finish (but you may 
 not even get to do that, we'll talk about it later) . Your truck goes over 900 MPH in reverse, it 
 magically passes through everything on the road. It can climb up mountains at the same speed it 
 can go back wards.
  
  Furthermore, your truck will stop instantly once you stop holding down the up arrow. No matter 
 at what speed it will be going, or on what type of terrain it will be finding itself. You stop 
 holding down the UP arrow, the truck stops. You press the arrow again the truck goes back to 900 
 MPH.
  
  But that's the best-case scenario. In the worst-case scenario you won't even get to race. See, 
 this game has a weird way of making you a winner before you even get to hit the up arrow. This 
 glitch happens every now and then and has been under close supervision by the CIA and the BBB as 
 to whether or not your getting ripped off without even getting to as much as a race.
  
  The only reason that keeps me from giving this game a zero in the gameplay category is also probably 
 the saddest of all. This game, inexplicably, has less bugs then either Deus Ex 2 or KOTOR. This 
 is truly sad.
  
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  Thank a deity this game has no multiplayer. I mean I can just see it now... 2 players eagerly racing 
 against another with no chance of winning. They both go at the same speed. They both pass through 
 everything on the road, and they both pass through each other... what a match.
  
  Overall: 1/10
  
  This game is the saddest piece of software ever made. It has doesn't have 
 even one redeeming quality. You could try to find one, but unless you wanna be really sarcastic, 
 you won't find it no matter how hard you try.
  
  This game is horrible, whatever you do, not even out of curiosity, ever should you buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebop89
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  How often do you sit around thinking to yourself, "Gee, I hate challenge in my games, I wish I 
 could always win." If you are anything like me, you can get to the point where you lose sleep over 
 it. But there is hope to people like me, and that hope comes in the form of a game. Big Rigs Over 
 The Road Racing is the answer to all of our prayers. It is as if this game was a gift from above 
 just for people like us. This game is just plain perfect, and if you disagree, you're not winner.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Games like Doom 3, Half-Life 2, Tetris, Farcry, and Splinter Cell all may have good graphics, but 
 none can compare to this game. The depth this game has in its graphics goes far beyond anything 
 I've seen in my many years of video gaming. For example, on some levels, the road will disappear 
 and reappear in certain spots. Now some may think "doesn't that mean the game is glitched?" Well 
 the answer is no. What many fail to realize is that those are actually pot-holes, and your Big 
 Rig is so powerful it fixes them just by getting near them. The graphics in this game just blow 
 my mind. I've truly never seen so much detail placed into trucks. Everything from your motionless 
 opponent to your tail lights that aren't attatched to the truck, everything is nice, clean, and 
 crisp. What really makes them great though is how much time the developers put into them to make 
 them great. For example whenever you see a bridge, the game allows you to slide through the bridge 
 and go under it so you can get a good view of the bottom of the game's beautiful bridges. Simply 
 amazing.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Here we are, the make or break point of a game. This game makes it, and it makes it good. Big Rigs 
 is the type of game that you can just pick up and play (if you can lift your computer of course) . 
 The controls are so simple that even I could figure them out. They work as follows:
  
  Up arrow: Move forward
  Down arrow: Initiate "rocket powered reverse," a technique that lets 
 you boost backwards at speeds of negative 10 million miles a second.
  Left arrow: Turn left
  Right arrow: Turn right
  Space bar: Also initiates the rocket powered 
 reverse
  Tab button: Press twice to crash the game
  
  How simple is that? I know what you're thinking, "there's no way this game can be THAT great!!!" 
 But it's true, it is. Not once will you ever feel cheated or like a failure in life, because you 
 never lose. Your opponent never moves, assuring a well-earned victory each race! The are also 5 
 maps included in the game!!! The developers were even kind enough to make the 5th map crash your 
 game, that way in you're ever sitting there thinking "I wish when I tried to play this level, my 
 computer would crash" you can. There's even a cool Random Race feature, that will either A) Put 
 you in a random race against an opponent (who doesn't move!) or B) Crash your game. It's like Russian 
 Roulette, only in this game there's no losers, only you're winners!
  
  Sound:
  
  Tired of boring and repetitive sound in games? Big Rigs takes steps to fix this problem by simple 
 having next to no sound effects or music! What more could you ask for!! You will never have to 
 turn your speakers off when you play this game, which is a huge plus.
  
  Value:
  
  For a game thats can be found under $5 that is actually worth atleast $50, you can't go wrong buying 
 this, unless of course you don't buy it or buy the wrong game, then you would go wrong. This game 
 is just a work of art in every aspect. I love this game with all my heart, you will to.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Be a you're winner, buy this game. Dont be a you're loser. I bought this game, 
 and my life has never been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXboxgamer73
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  After watching the video review of this atrocity of a gaming failure, I was somehow drawn in by 
 it's utter horridness. For some reason, the game seemed so terrible, that I had to play it. My 
 friend and I, having looked in many stores to no avail, decided to order this game online just 
 to say we owned one of the worst games in gaming history. And now I sit before you, having played 
 Big Rigs: Over The Road Racing and admiring it's perfect execution of everything a game should 
 not be. In actuality, this game is so bad, it's actually the best game ever created in the history 
 of life!!
  
  Gameplay- The up arrow is gas, the down arrow is brake, and the spacebar is oddly a handbrake and 
 a device that allows your truck to hit 20,000 mph in reverse. I kid you not, while playing Big 
 Rigs, I managed a top speed of 70mph, then hit reverse, spun in circles, and managed to glitch 
 off the map doing over negative 100 million mph. You clip through everything and your truck controls 
 like syrup. WOW!!! 
  
  Graphics: You can see through trucks, hills, and everything else that looks like it was created 
 by giving a group of infants a handful of crayons. And by that, I mean skilled infants!! You'll 
 find a vast assortment of green grass, black roads that often dissapear, and MUCH MUCH MORE!!!!
 
  
  Sound: There is about one sound in this game: the sound of your truck accelerating, and even that 
 sounds horrible. There is no menu music or anything, and the music that is supposed to play during 
 the game never makes a debut, although it can be found by exploring the cd from your desktop. However, 
 this little lack in sound only helps to stress the fact that Big Rigs: Over The Road Racing provides 
 you with such an emotionally driven and satisfying gameplay atmosphere, that you'll never need 
 sound to get your adrenaline pumping. HOLY MOLY!!! I'M SUPER PSYCHED!!!!!
  
  Value: This game is so horrible that you need to buy it. Big Rigs is simply a masterpiece in the 
 catagory of horrendous games. Horrendous meaning excellent by the way.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: You have to buy this game, I mean, step aside Grand Theft Auto, Big Rigs is plowing 
 through, like the ULTIMATE POLICE ROADBLOCK!!!!
  
  BUY= YOU'R WINNER
  NO BUY= YOU'R NOT WINNER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taker416
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 28, 2006 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing has to be the worst game of all time. There is no point to it and 
 the only reason to play it is to move a truck around at very high speeds and hope not to crash 
 into anything. Oh wait, I almost forgot, you can't crash into anything. Buildings have no purpose 
 and are there just for flash, but it still doesn't give the game any better rating. The game reminds 
 me of an example program of Blitz 3D, which is a program used to write programs. In this example, 
 you drive a little green car around on a hilly terrain and avoid falling off the edges. Heck, I 
 could make a better game, and I'm only in 10th grade. These guys must be embarrassed. Even this 
 company's website doesn't even work ( http://www. stellarstone. com/company. html ) so why try and 
 make a game when you can't even work a basic website. This game is pure crap and I wouldn't even 
 pay a cent to have to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 3, 2006 1:08 am PT
Review:  Okay, I think that Gamespot has reviewed the worst game EVER!! Big Rigs is a game about nothing. 
 You can pick a truck out of four and start a race against another truck, but the other truck NEVER 
 MOVES!!! And there's no cargo to be delivered!! Nothing at all, there's nothing in the game! Gamespot 
 should start handeling out zero's in the GS Score! The game DOESN'T deserve a 1.0 score! And the 
 developers that made the game can't even spell... They should go back to school!
  
  The GooD:
  - Well I can't come up with something. Can you?
  
  The BaD:
  - No gameplay at 
 all!
  - Probably the worst graphics I've ever seen!
  - No sound effects!
  - No replay value at all! You can play this game for 15 minutes, and that's enough!
  - Unrealistic 
 physics/you can drive over 1000 mph with a truck!
  - There's no props or obstacles! You can see them, but they don't excist!
  - Boring and ugly 
 landscapes.
  - There's no boundaries.
  - The truck can drive up on mountains without any problems.
  - There is actually people that 
 likes this game!!
  
  The game publishers and developers should all be beaten to death and their corpses should be send 
 to the outer space, with a bomb, and the bomb should explode and their remains should be picked 
 up and then make their families to eat the remains, and when they poo it out then the s*** should 
 picked up and smashed in to their mothers faces, because they had given birth to such children!
 
  Don't buy the game, your just encouraging the creaters of the game to make another crappy game. 
 
  Big Rigs... Don't play this game, ever!
  
  Dop999 - You're winner! :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caldo
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 22, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Yes we all know by know that this game was the worst game released in 2004 if not ever. In my attempt 
 to understand the review 'picked up' a copy of Big Rigs. I failed.
  
  My understand now falls to one of 2 conclusions, either this was simply an unfinished game pulls 
 from development due to lack of money and dumped straight into the public market to re cooperate 
 losses. But more likely it was simple one mans attempt to make a game at home. I hope this is the 
 case. Indeed it does have a developer name but that doesn't mean it is more than 1 person. In any 
 case this doesnt excuse the publisher.
  
  This game was basically so bad it had to be a conscious decision to release it, someone sitting 
 in an office somewhere thought it would be hilarious to see how many mums picked this up for their 
 teenage son on a trip around the local supermarket. Even that thou would never qualify GameMill 
 to spend any money on packaging and distribution. 
  
  This in the end could possibly be the gaming equivalent of 'Spring time for Hitler', so bad that 
 it become popular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gekko101
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  It sucks so much ass its not even funny this game is so crappy that if you play for more than 1hour 
 you will die on the godamn spot.... i mean really i threw this game out of my window a dog came 
 up and ate it and it died on the spot and the demons form hell spawned from the body.. my eyes bleed.... i 
 had to pick my eyes out of my eyesockets to stop the pain ... that comes from the suckage of this 
 game  
 try it for real its not worth it i would buy this game... just so i can burn it........ this game 
 isssssss sooo bad that superman64 makes fun of it... come on SUPERMAN 64.... this is sad... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siylentbob
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  I've received many video-games in my life, and Im proud to say Ive enjoyed most of them, and 
 one day my life changed forever. I was outside a local wal-mart when I noticed something laying 
 next to the trash can I picked up the cracked CD case, and noticed it was a computer game called 
 Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing. I jumped in joy, and installed the game onto my computer, and 
 Im blown away!
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  First of all, you may notice a picture of a truck ramming another vehicle on the cover of the 
 game. This is kind of misleading due to the fact that you go right through the other trucks. Oh, 
 and if you wondering what over the road racing means, it means driving on the road So technically, 
 we are all over the road drivers or as the game would say Youre Winner!
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Gameplay- This game redefines the racing genre! Youre truck can climb, back up faster than you 
 can drive forward, drive through all the objects, and as an added bonus You cant loose! Thats 
 right, the opponent doesnt move, making the game less stressful, and making the game even more 
 of a blast!
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics- Talking about next generation, this game is equipped with the most stunning visuals 
 Ive ever seen! The bridges are brown, the trees are green, and the floating headlights are red. 
 The game brings you into beautiful, grassy valleys, and if youre curious, you can find the hidden 
 gray world. The grey world is so fun that your truck will be jumping in joy the entire time.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound- The sounds in this game will bring a tear in your eye. The looping techno song is the best 
 piece of music Ive ever had the please to hear. With no atmospheric sounds to ruin the song for 
 you, you can just park your truck and listen to the great song all day!
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Value- So you might be thinking, Hey Siylentbob, isnt this game suppose to be short? Well, 
 lets just say that you have four trucks and five maps. Multiply those together, and subtract five 
 because one truck doesnt work. You should end up with 15 combinations. Place each combination 
 for five hours, and you have an extremely long game, with tons of replay value.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Reviewers Tilt- The game is basically flawless, I mean, any game with only four controls is a 
 blast! It never gets refusing, the controls go as follows:
      Right Arrow
  ^ Up Arrow
  v Down Arrow
  With controls like that, this game is easy to take break from and get right back 
 in. The gray world feature is fantastic, the three working trucks are fantastic, and there is no 
 cargo to slow your 1,000 MPH truck down. 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The only problem with this game is the fact that you can quit it. If you love trucks, or just 
 love realistic simulations then I recommend Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing, and remember, in 
 Big Rigs: YOURE WINNER!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lgraves22
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  Where can i start. Hmmm..... first the is The Ragig Killr of most people in the USA! It killed 
 over 1,000,001 people. Well you know that never happened well... it should of.
  
  This game sucks perioid (perioid over there) ----- . OMG you cant see it. Then you must of played 
 this game cuz it blinds people badly. They should Rampag Agnist Trck after this wipe of a game. 
 Who ever gave this game a ten is ging to get punished severly for this and the makers even worse.
 
  
  No one should like this game man just look at Alex Navarro he had to lay in the streets after he 
 played this game. Ys  Yes and I would go even farther to get hit by a car for the complete suck 
 of this game.
  
  Let me get to the reasons this game sucks. 1: There is no compatision actually there is but IT 
 NEVER LEAVES THE STARTING LINE!!!!!
  2: Trck goes though bridges and off the map.
  3: The truck your driving has no cargo. If you look at the other truck if has freaking cargo.
 
  4: Graphics suck. That is all that there is unless I add that this game sucks o wait i DID.
  
  God i wish i never took this game from my friend. Just too sum it up I wish i could of took 
 what Alex took in playing this game. Man i would give this a 0 if i could. (PLZ if anyone knows 
 a website that gives 0's then plz tell me)
  This game is =vrd= 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homelessnail
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  Word cannot describe this game, it's that good. The amazingly large and immersive world, partnered 
 with some of the best graphics to date would make it worth playing even if it had absolutely no 
 gameplay whatsoever. Thankfully, it does. 
  
  The whole point of the game is to transport illegal cargo across thousands of miles of highways 
 and byways across America all while staying one step ahead of the law. It's quite a challenge not 
 to get caught by the ultimate traffic stopper: a police roadblock. Gameplay: 10/10
  
  The graphics are incredibly realistic. You'll often find yourself stopping just to look at the 
 environments. It's incredible to me that the game can process such large environments. They're 
 literally endless. Don't even get me started on the incredibly realistic physics engine. Graphics: 
 10/10
  
  Not much to say about the sound, except that it's absolutely amazing. You'll be even more immersed 
 when you hear the roar of the big rig as you travel over roads and under bridges. Sound: 10/10
 
  
  This game was well worth the cheap price I paid, and I would even be willing to pay more than full 
 price. You can use four unique rigs in five even more unique environments. You may think this is 
 a small number of levels, but they're each so large that you won't notice this. 
  
  In conclusion, I'll just say that Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is a game well worth your money. 
 
  
  Pros:
  Excellent Gameplay
  Incredible Graphics
  Immersive Sound
  Good replayability
  
  Cons:
  The "quit" button
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pundan
Rating: 1.1
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is the worst game I've played.. ... EVER! I've played video games 
 for over 15 years and I have never come by a game that is worse than this. And I can promise that 
 out of the 100+ reviews that has been posted here on Gamespot, 80% of those reviewers (unlike me) 
 haven't actually played the game.
  
  Being known for one of the games on Gamespot that actually has the rating of 1.0, Big Rigs has 
 gotten pretty popular. And therefore I had to try it out. I didn't expect a game that was fun at 
 all, but it was something I really had to try out.
  
  It's as bad as they say, I can promise you that, there's no value at all in this game, and if there 
 was a possibility to give a game the rating of 0, I would do it. Now, to the game itself.
  
  When you start up Big Rigs, you are granted two choices. Either play a Custom Race where you 
 make "all" the settings or play a Random game. There's 5 levels in the game, and four trucks (these 
 are the "settings" you can do) . 
  
  I started a Random Race, since I just wanted to have some plain fun. At first I was kind of amazed 
 that there was actually some graphics in the game, but I didn't get any music (is there any music 
 at all?) . Not even sound effects! I raced away and the car quickly started driving in the top speed 
 81MPH. As I was driving I noticed that the road was disappearing on some places, and there is no 
 physics at all! You can drive right through poles, houses even climb mountains without loosing 
 any speed at all.
  
  I climbed a mountain that was really, really steep. Not even the best mountain-climber could climb 
 up there. But my truck blasted up there in 80-MPH. Up on the mountain I started reversing. I reversed 
 in a circle shape (like they do on the Video Review on Gamespot) and the car came up to the insane 
 speed of 260+MPH. The truth is that you can actually reverse this car in great speeds, even faster 
 than driving it normally.
  
  When the race was over (checkpoint-based if you didn't know that) and I was told that i was WINNER 
 (You're WINNER!) , I thought "Well, let's test some other levels!". So I tried to open up a new 
 level. I actually tried over and over again but the game told me just as the races were to begin 
 "YOU'RE WINNER!".
  
  Something went horribly wrong with this game, and I don't even want to know how mad they publishers 
 were when they saw the final product. What I want to know though is what the intention of this 
 unplayable game was in the first place.
  
  There is no challenge at all in this game, and you should buy it if you ever come by it. It's good 
 for a laugh, but after 10-15 minutes you're full of it. I got to give it a little extra pitch since 
 it contains pretty decent graphics. It's no Half Life 2 or anything, but at least they spent some 
 time on that. I would however recommend this game to people who feel like they don't want any challenges 
 at all, and people who have very low self-esteem and need to hear that "THEY'RE WINNER!" some times. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlashFirer
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 15, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Every single month, a bad game comes out. Is this true? Sadly, it is. Every single month, a game 
 that seems developed by a group of two-year-olds comes out. Some magazines even have a "dubious 
 prize" related to that-"shame of the month", obviously an opposite to "Game of the Month". But 
 most games simply aren't as bad as Big Rigs.
  I wish I could say that the guys at Stellar Stone-developer of this game-made a bet to see if they 
 could get a bottom-low grade with a game they made. 
  Hopefully, they won't do this again, because they surely got that right. Big Rigs sucks as much 
 as you can possibly imagine-why is that?
  
  Well, I'll try to be brief. Every gamer has a few friends, called Gameplay, Graphics, Sound and 
 Value. Stellar Stone delivered a kick right into Gameplay's crotch, launched a Shinku Hadouken 
 at Graphics and Sound, and tortured, raped, and killed Value with a spoon. Made out of pure acid. 
 Yeah, that's right. ACID, I say, ACID.
  
  When you enter a vs. CPU race, you simply... well... don't race. You just kind of float around and 
 clip through stuff like when using that /noclip cheat code in Quake or Half-life. Only less fun, 
 because you can't turn it off. Besides, you're winner. Yup. You're winner. The CPU doesn't move, 
 so you automatically.. you know... win. And that is why I think this game should be used on emocore 
 people or people with inferiority complex-heck they'd feel great! You wouldn't though. Seriously. 
 This might be good for a gag, but if you wanna play it, download it. You're gonna make its publishers 
 and developers lose money and stuff. Yeah right, like they got any... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony110
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 15, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  Well i don't really have much to say anything this game one thing is for sure this game is probably 
 the worst game recorded in history. I mean when you drive you'll suddenly drive outside game and 
 through a building and I just want to say WHAT WERE YOU THINKING making this game. And I don't 
 wanna sound like a noob but everyone who has rated the game over 3,9 can go screw them selves and 
 quit video gaming and start a new life or something. I mean just look at it it's just awful in 
 every way there is possibly to go in life jesus christ. I'm sorry for sounding like an **** but 
 this game makes video gaming look like fools. I mean it could be fun to just buy it to screw around 
 with the game but in all ways you should stay away from the game in all possible ways. But i can 
 not belive that people rates this game superb and up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torontogamer
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 11, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Wow.... This game is undescribable. So hard to describe a game that suck so bad. Where do I begin. 
 This game is the worst piece of garbage in the world. Like wtf is this garbage. The graphics are 
 crap. Everything about this game is crap. No one will enjoy this game, if you even will consider 
 this garbage a game. What a piece of junk. This game is so horrible that I would rather stare at 
 a piece of **** than this. I recommend this game because it is the worst piece of **** ever and 
 it will probably be worth something someday because no other game will ever get a worser review. 
 My question is how did this game make it to the shelves. Please, anything can get in the shelves 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HotokeSephiroth
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 6, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - a truly bad point here. You just press the UP key, and well, you drive if you want. 
 If you don't, then just hold the UP key. Believe me, you'll get to the end in one piece.
  
  Graphics - they suck. Texture failures, it looks just like the primordial 3-D games for the PS2. 
 Even worse, I might add.
  
  Sound - wow, now this is good. No sound effects, no music. Do I have to make any other comments?
 
  
  Value - believe me, it would be better to spend the rest of your life WITHOUT playing this game.
 
  
  Tilt - great, at least you have a good objective on this game. Race, race and race. Wait, race? 
 No, no, it's just a walk in the park...
  
  PLEASE, do NOT play this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pkk77
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  BIG RIGS - THE MOST UNDERRATED GAME IN HISTORY, My story
  
  When I first played Big Rigs on that faithfull November 29th 2003 day, I quit the game after only 
 5 minutes and declared it THE WORST TRUCK RACING GAME EVER MADE... BY GAMEMILL AND STELLAR STONE. 
 
  
  2 years went by and I found my Big Rigs game amongst some old junk, I decided to play it again. 
 That is when I realised how much Big Rigs contributed to Truck driving games genre and video games 
 in general. It was a 'pioneer' . One of the first Truck racing games made by Gamemill and Stellar 
 Stone. When I played Big Rigs for the first time in 2003, I was in disbelief of the pure stupidity 
 of the game and said, "Any game can top that easily". But you see, If it wasn't for 'awsomely bad' 
 games like this, who's to say which games are good?
  
  If it wasn't for the poorness of Big Rigs, nobody would know which games are the best because their 
 wouldn't be a terrible game like this to compare it with.
  
  But nowadays I sort of respect Big Rigs. After playing Big Rigs again in a different light, you 
 start to see the genius in it all. You have to know, the creators weren't trying to WOW us with 
 great gameplay and awesome graphics, but they were trying to make us laugh! And that IS entertainment. 
 Quite characters these creators are! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PwnisherX
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jan 28, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  There are some games that are so bad, they're frustrating (i. e. Superman 64) , but then there are 
 games even worse that are absolutely hilarious- and Big Rigs is one of them.
  
  Gameplay - There really is none. You can screw around for as long as you like and never lose, your 
 opponent will NEVER cross the finish line even with the update. There is an actual objective in 
 it though; you have to pass through check points in order to become "winner!"
  
  Graphics - Awful. But the mountain textures are decent...
  
  Sound - It has sound?
  
  Value 
 - Some cheap laughs for $5.
  
  Overall - It's the worst game ever, completely broken. The load times are terrible even on a pretty 
 good machine. And there's no challenge whatsoever.
  
  But I'll be damned if you won't be laughing as you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jan 26, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  I don't know what to say. This game is just so bad.... so BAD! It's actually hilarious how appallingly 
 bad this game is. There is no challenge, as your opponents don't move at all. The physics are... well, 
 actually, this game doesn't really have physics. You can go 1000 mph in reverse and then let go 
 of the accelerator and stop immediately. You can drive through buildings, mountains, trees, bridges. 
 You can drive over mountains and completely off of the map. You can drive on nothingness! I.... I 
 just don't get what this company was thinking. But I'll tell you what I'm thinking. This game sucks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylnuge
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 14, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Yes, do. Stop posting 10 point reviews as jokes. This is to pull the score down to its rightful 
 place: Negitive 200. This game is impossile to discribe. Take the worst games in history. Multiply 
 them by each other. Raise that to the 2500000th power. Now, you are still a few million lightmellienas 
 short of this game. A newvborn could win this. If you have ever played any games at all, you have 
 played a game that is better. In fact it is a infinate number of times better because anything 
 times 0 equals 0. So, if you are going to buy this: here is a word of advice. Don't! Fixed this, 
 for some reason it was auto set to 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinkerz
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  gameplay: yay! i win al the time! This makes me feel good about myself. But i get frustrated when 
 that stinkin truck goes haywire!
  
  graphics: i laugh so much at how the thing just runs thru walls like liquid! HAHA!!! But again, 
 the truck malfunction...
  
  sound: music roks. All my friends piss their pants cause its so funny. ... it's not that i did... 
 Still! Sweet music!
  
  value: You ain't gonna be playing this game for a long time though. It's good for a few days, then, 
 it gets old.
  
  tilt: YES!!! TEN! No... Good, not really good. But Gamespot really underrated it... But still great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russian_Cossack
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jan 13, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  There's no story. You're supposedly carrying cargo to locations, but you don't have any cargo. 
 How lame. The game has many glitches, like there is no physics, stopping on the drop of a dime, 
 going through walls, driving inot void, etc. There's no sound. There's only 5 tracks, and track 
 4 doesn't work and the vehicles have very little differences. The only use for this game is to 
 show people the badness that is big rigs for some laughs. I don't recommend buying it for any sum 
 of money. If you want to see how bad it is really, download it then delete it so your computer 
 doesn't get infected with badness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jan 13, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  The worst game ever. And I haven't even got the game. (Well, I do read 100% of reviews) Just drive. 
 Forward. Don't worry, you can always got through items. What? Yep, you don't know what I am talking 
 about.
  
  BR: OTRR has got 99.9% crapiness at sound. But, the music at the beggining is amazing. But in one 
 microsecond, you will see how dodgy it is.
  Like a racer? Buy need for speed. What ever you do, don't buy this.
  
  Pah. Want more? Yes? 
 What about the deaf AI? Just staying there like they forgot there homework and they left it in 
 there house, and never giving up until they are dead? Actually, they are dead. Can you push them? 
 No. There is a cheat, but, it is stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adri2374
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 5, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  It's sad you can't give a game 0 on Gamespot. This one deserves minus 20 or something. I was laughing 
 and crying at the same time while i knocked my head in the table. Just as Alex Navarro in Gamespot's 
 video. Terrible. Terrible is just the blank before the first initial in the first name. This is 
 unbeliveable terrible. Shocking.
  
  It has no sound. At all.
  You can drive through everything. Absolutely everything. Houses, road signs, even bridges!
  When 
 you select level 4 the game quit.
  When you try to "race" with truck 2 you win instantly.
  When you win it says "YOU'RE WINNER !". "YOU'RE WINNER !".
  
  Learning curve is 4 seconds (not 
 0 to 30 minutes, but thats the shortest you can choose) .
  
  This game is U-N-B-E-L-I-V-E-A-B-L-E T-E-R-R-I-B-L-E.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Quack_Quack
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 3, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, this game is garbage. There is nothing good to tell you about this game and 
 there are no other words that can describe the monstrosity the developers sent to us gamers.
  
  Gameplay - WHAT GAMEPLAY??? There are practically no Artificial Intelligence and winning screen 
 on every course. Anybody can finish this game in approximately 20 seconds max.
  
  Graphics - Flat out worst looking game in the market. There are no real physics in the game. Objects 
 are there for shows. No Collision on anything. Practically you can run anywhere due to no boundaries. 
 Ugly details and the list goes on and on and on......
  
  Sound - This game is so quiet I can hear crickets chirping outside. And I live in the top floor 
 of an apartment.
  
  Value - $20 for this piece of garbage?? I wouldn't even pay a penny in African currency for this 
 monstrosity. Thank god I received this from a friend (poor sucker)
  
  Tilt - The most fun I have with this game is when I:
  1) Dumped it into a can and lit it on fire
 
  2) Did the river dance on it after it stopped burning
  3) Grind it into ashes and sealed it inside a bag (so it wouldn't contaminate anybody)
  
  P. S. 
 - I have to say this. The developers must've bribed some people to recommend this game to people 
 with a perfect 10. It's either that or some of the developers wrote a review on their game with 
 a perfect 10 score. (Or those reviewers are lazy pea brains that doesn't like using brains) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexmon
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is the BEST GAME EVER!!
  
  Graphics:
  
  Absolutely AMAZING!!! Best graphics I've ever seen! The head lights go off thecars? PURE GENIUS!!! 
 The truck's colors get all glitched and messed up? Better than the Mona Lisa!
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The fact that you can go up straight mountains with a truck, go through bridges, 
 houses, etc., and go off the map? It blows my heart away in this phenomenal game!!! What is reall 
 good is that the AI cars don't even dp anything! The fact that you always win makes you feal like 
 a WINNER!!!
  
  Sound:
  
  No sound effects so it emphasizes on the repetative techno music all the time! You can dance the 
 whole night away just to the amazing music! Screw sound effects!
  
  Big Rigs: Off Road Racing... YOU'RE A WINNER!!!
  Simply put, this is the greatest game of all 
 time!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirkover
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 21, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  You see, there is a fine line between what is considered a game, and what is not considered a game. 
 Well, despite the fact that Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is meant to be considered a game, the 
 developers did not even take the time to develop a game that is in any way enjoyable, nor a game 
 that even functions properly. When you find a game that is so bad, that it can not be comprehended 
 by the average human mind, you know that you have come across a game that has crossed that line. 
 Big Rigs is that game. Big Rigs, is pure garbage.
  
  Big Rigs is an epic truck racing game, were you push your truck-driving skills to the limit. Alas, 
 despite the fact that this is what the game claims itself to be, it is quite the contrary. Big 
 Rigs has absolutely no redeeming qualities, and can not be considered a real game. The reason being 
 that Big Rigs is broken. It seems as if the developers put forth absolutely no effort into this 
 game, and released it when it was far from complete. This is pretty obvious, considering the uncountable 
 number of glitches in Big Rigs. 
  
  The objective of Big Rigs is to cross different trucking routes and deliver cargo before the competition 
 does it first. But, once again, some things aren't always what they are said to be, so let me relieve 
 you of these terrible lies. There is no significant mission in Big Rigs. There is no cargo to be 
 delivered. In fact, there is no apparent goal in Big Rigs, other than forcing you into a state 
 of fear of what type of horror may be bestowed upon you if you were to play it any longer. Simply 
 put, do not play this game.
  
  Now, while most games don't, some games immerse you in a wonderful world, full of incredible sights, 
 breath-taking monuments, and stellar visuals. While Big Rigs' visuals are parallel to the visuals 
 of any other game, that does not neccesarily mean a good thing. Big Rigs has some of the worst 
 visuals to hit the PC, no, anything of this current generation of gaming. The trucks in Big Rigs 
 look incredibly abysmal, and have absolutely no detail. Due to this, they look nothing like trucks. 
 The trucks can be described as just plain ugly at the word's best use. The same goes for the environment, 
 as they look more like barren wastelands than the lush, green fields they are meant to look like. 
 And it only gets worse from there. Big Rigs is chocked full of bugs and glitches, thus, it only 
 makes the graphics look worse than they already are, if that is even possible. Parts of the environment 
 dissapear, the game may freeze up, and it is even possible for part of your truck to dissapear. 
 Big Rigs is one of the only games to ever look this bad. Once again, when playing Big Rigs, the 
 word "garbage" comes to mind.
  
  Ah yes, but the races must be pretty good, eh? Big Rigs must have some pretty good artificial intelligence, 
 right? Wrong! In fact, there is not a trace of AI to be found in Big Rigs. Big rigs is meant to 
 be a "racing" game, therefore, there should be a computer controlled opponent to race against. 
 Alas, there isn't. When you enter a race, you see an opposing trucker at the starting line, but 
 when the race actually starts, you will notice that the opposing trucker does not move. The reason 
 for this is that there is no AI, despite the fact that this is considered a race. Oh, but thats 
 not what a real trucker would say, is it? A real trucker would enjoying winning every single race, 
 and hearing the super special, yet grammaticly wrong phrase "You're Winner!", now wouldn't they? 
 Well, maybe in this incredibly mediocre excuse for a video game, but surely not in reality.
  
  Now, just like in all racing games, you may be driving, and look ahead, and find an obstacle 
 blocking your path. But in Big Rigs, there are no worries about any obstacle that may block your 
 path, when you can merely defy the laws of physics, and drive right through them! Yes, any obstacle 
 that blocks your path can be driven through. Houses, trees, walls, bridges, you name it, and you 
 can drive through it. This extremely bad glitch only goes to show that the developers put forth 
 no effort in the creation of Big Rigs, and that Big Rigs was not complete before it was released. 
 Now, I don't know what kind of gamer would like the fact that you can drive through obstacles, 
 but I know I don't. Even worse, it is possible to drive straight up the boundaries of the course 
 that you are on, and drift off into a world of absolutely nothing, if you can understand that. 
 
  
  Now, maybe you could listen to the sounds of the pleasent environment around you to soothe your 
 anger. Oh wait, thats right, Big Rigs has no sound whatsoever. There are absolutely no sound effects 
 in Big Rigs, unless you count one music track that dosen't even usually play. Because of this, 
 you can't be distracted from the utter terror of Big Rigs as you wonder why anyone would create 
 such a horrible game.
  
  Simply put, there are no reasons to buy Big Rigs. You will feel ashamed of yourself for spending 
 any amount of money on this worthless piece of garbage, and possibly encouraging the developers 
 to release another game as horrible as this. Big Rigs is completely broken, and looks terrible 
 to boot. Anyone who would try to sell this would deserve a slap right in the face. To wrap it up, 
 do not play Big Rigs at any time, any place, in no circumstance whatsoever, and feel glad that 
 you saved yourself from playing Big Rigs, one of the worst games to ever be bestowed upon us gamers.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sightless2k2
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:27 am PT
Review:  Let's break this down piece by piece.
  
  Gameplay: No realism to this game at all go up one way go down another, right.. The opponent doesn't 
 move thus eliminating any competiton or point to the game. That right there is the biggest flaw. 
 Only advantage to the game is the fact you can go anywhere.
  
  Graphics: Barely presentable, noticable rips and tears from bad artistry and bad technical ability, 
 really sad looking for this day and age.
  
  Sound: I don't like techno, there's really annoying techno tracks in this game, see the issue?
 
  
  Value: There is none, broken, pointless, worthless
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apeman159
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:29 am PT
Review:  umm... well what can I say, this game sucks so much, that even a 2d game made by ME is better then 
 this crap, you can go trough EVERYTHING in this game, buildings, lampposts, the other AI Driver, 
 but wait... what AI?
  
  there is no AI in this game, none at all, the driver jusgt sits there doing nothing, maybe he is 
 smoking something or doing something with his girl, but that's no excuse to not drive.
  
  there are 5 tracks and 4 vehicles which are trucks and look stupid and ridicolous, and because 
 there's no AI you can be a winner!! everytime!! 
  
  isn't that just great?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allan_X
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 24, 2005 3:25 am PT
Review:  Just... no.
  
  I'm sure you've heard it all already. "Words cannot describe it, it is utter trash." and "What 
 IS this!?".
  
  Well, my friends, what we have here is the ultimate expression of utter laziness, a miniscule budget, 
 and an appalling lack of any semblance of wit or talent. Where did the developers graduate from, 
 hmm? The outhouse? That's not to say that being well-versed in the world of academics is a must 
 for anyone seeking a job in the gaming industry; there have been plenty of perfectly skilled programmers 
 and artists among the wholly self-taught.
  
  But the kind of people behind this sort of garbage... it makes you wonder, did they forge their 
 credentials to trick some unwitting stooges into sponsoring their little misguided "dream?"
  
  I've known one-man developmental efforts that turned out to be more fruitful than this! Just 
 look at the works of Derek Smart, "Ph. D!"
  
  Allow me to explain...
  
  ... driving in reverse at hypersonic speeds through buildings, mountains, and bridges that barely 
 look like what they're supposed to... staring at an "opponent" that never moves, no matter what... 
 listening to the immeasurably bad "music" that comprises ALL OF THE GAME'S SOUND!
  
  It changes you, it really does. Every time I touch this game's disc - purchased out of morbid curiosity, 
 of course - a terrible feeling overcomes me. The damn thing's cursed! It's a plague on all that 
 is good and respectable about gaming!
  
  Really, WHAT IS Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing? The world may never know for sure. If you really 
 want to know, get yourself a copy, though I'd strongly advise against it. 
  
  Oh, and by the way, "You're Winner!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robthefox
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 22, 2005 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Please for the love of god, stay away fro this game. I went in thinking everyone was nuts, lets 
 just say my eyes burn now. But hey if your the type of person who just wants to press forward for 
 2 minutes go ahead a play this game, all 2 of you. This might be great if it were maybe a 1996 
 game, even still probally not. This game tries to be a racer but well.. who am i racing? Sure theres 
 a 2nd truck at the beginning, but it doesn't move.... at all. Hate crashing? then this is the game 
 for you, since you don't collide with anything. Afraid to go offroad? No problem you can just ride 
 on back. How's the music? There uh... isn't any... at all. There isn't any sound or any reason to 
 play this game. Unless you wanna pull a cruel joke on someone. Buttom line, no reason at all to 
 play big rigs, it's that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamekaze22
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Just how awesome this game is? It's as awesome as your mind will comprehend it to be.
  
  This game is so awesome it has a religion of its own, Rigism. If you wanna get a game. This is 
 it. This is the game for you. If you want a truck that runs at 1,000 Mph, it's in this game. If 
 you want a truck that will float on water, pass through solid walls and houses, and flies, it's 
 in this game also.
  
  This is the best game ever because you can do absolutely anything in this game such as turning 
 360* on the spot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cidhighwind100
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:56 pm PT
Review:  HAHAHAHAHAHAHA I REALLY CANNOT STOP LAUGHING AT THIS!
  
  It's the absolute and utter awfulness of this game that makes it so funny!!!!
  Oooh look my truck 
 can do 360 degree turns on the spot! HA beat that! I love the really STIRRING music THAT STOPS 
 HALFWAY THROUGH THE RACE and i fail to pass the finish line and STILL win!! Go me! Hey I just went 
 straight through a tree! Wow it must be a GHOST TRUCK!!!!
  
  Seriously though, this made me laugh a lot. If you need cheering up get this game to remind yourself 
 of how bad things can be and then you'll see that things can't possibly be as bad as this and yet 
 they ARE...... ooohooo still laughing.... aha..... aha..... 
  
  I really want to give this a 10 for tilt as it gave me an experience like no other but then the 
 score comes out at 3.9 - it's gonna have to be a 1. hahaaaaa....... aha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazykidhenry
Rating: 1.6
Date: Dec 20, 2005 9:58 pm PT
Review:  I've never laughed so hard with any game, even when they tried to be funny.
  
  I can only imagine this is some incomplete one man project, which then probably don't deserve these 
 harsh words that's been given here. But how did it end up on the shelves, it certainly is not worth 
 buying. 
  
  Don't you find the title: "Over the Road" very ironic? I think this was meant to grab attention 
 and cause mass hysteria and stomach aces, like I have right now... oh, my face is crampimg too. 
 
  
  I find it odd that I didn't see one smile on Alex's face in the video review.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bayroot88
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 19, 2005 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Big Rigs Over The Road Racing is a bad game all together because of the  
 detanion, oh and a other problem in this game is automatliy win every race oh where is the rigs 
 how can you become a big rig racer without a rig come on people i have played a lot of racing game 
 in my life i haven, t played this one yet and i can, t played the demo i heard the game bad warning 
 don, t play this game plase i saw the video review and alex naverrro play the game and saw got hit 
 on that track oh plase don, t play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MotokoZeratul
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 16, 2005 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Don't Believe the other reviews is saying about Big Rigs, they are all fake. We have here a excellent 
 truck race game with realistc physics and advanced AI of your oponent, who often tries to outmanuever 
 you.
  The lack of sound is not a bad factor, what allows you to hear .mp3. The overall difficulty of the 
 game is High and is not designed for the casual player. 
  
  Big Rigs is game made too ahead of its time and didn't deserve this lower score gamespot gave to 
 him. True Sad.
  
  Hint : Download the 1.1 patch for a more reallistc experience
  
  This game should be awarded ''THE BEST RACE GAME OF HISTORY'' . A game you must see for yourself 
 and a MUST HAVE in your gamming collection.
  
  Get it now or you can't be a WINNER
  
  Zeratul
  
  (Sorry my bad grammar but english is not my primary language)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xanog1
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 13, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Big Rigs is one of those games where the developers must have truly been on something when they 
 made it.
  
  Let's make the basis of the game transporting illegal substances over the border, and have the 
 cops catch you when you lose!
  
  Well, the substances were apparently used up by the developement team, and there appear to be no 
 cops, so basically the story is scapped.
  
  In addition to the lack of story, is the lack of the laws of reality. According to this game, you 
 can apparently drive through objects, up mountains, and get stuck in the air. For every action, 
 there is an opposite, yet equal action, well, that law doesn't apply hear, as you can't bounce 
 off objects or crash into them.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Now the encouraging part:
  
  Big Rigs is the type of game intentionally designed to give people without hands the ability to 
 win.
  
  All you do is press forwards and occasionally turn, and you've won! The enemy doesn't move, so 
 don't worry about the competition, as you can leave the game on for 3 days and still win.
  
  All five working levels make you instantly win, and your prize? A game crash on the sixth level, 
 yay! You get to see your background and shortcuts again!
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  So, but it if you want to beat a game without ever losing, if not, stick with harder games, like 
 everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepdreamer256
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 9, 2005 12:00 pm PT
Review:  + You can go anywhere!
  - There is no AI, no gameplay, no physics, and gamemill is a cult.
  
  Big rigs is hands down the worst game I have ever heard of, I have'nt played it but maybe I'm 
 worried I might damage my health. The amount of flaws is too extreme for this to have any gameplay, 
 the opponent you race against literally never moves, logically meaning there is no AI, and the 
 graphics are terrible with drastically lo-res textures with seams and tears everywhere, the rig 
 you 'race' in is completely black with only a chassis and nothing else, you can choose between 
 four rigs, thunder and 3 others I could'nt be bothered to remember the names of, but each rig looks 
 exactly the same on the track, which is just downwright cheap. I even went to the gamemill website 
 and saw the first popup I have ever seen on mozilla firefox, it was just some website where you 
 could play flash games, 2d, so gamemill have never had any experience with 3d at all. The physics 
 are terrible because there are'nt any physics you can run up a vertical ledge and you won't fall 
 down, the preportion of the gameworld is also terrible, mountains are only 5 times as big as your 
 rig, you can even go straight through houses, fall through bridges and do all sort's of wierd stuff. 
 And, if you actually go over the mountains, you will see nothing but whiteness, you can also drive 
 into this whiteness and drive around in it freely but your rig will jerk crazily, I guess it's 
 sort of cool being able to go anywhere but this is a game, oh, sorry it's not a game. If gamespot 
 are only supposed to review games then why have they reviewed big rigs? The answer to this is nothing 
 but a mistery.
  
  Gameplay: 1 Even worse than a one. This deserves a zero because it has no gameplay, no AI, and 
 no resistance or obsticles, something than even some of the worst games these days still have. 
 It confirms the prediction of a game you watch but has no gameplay.
  
  Graphics : 1 And watching this game might turn you blind, the gameworld is lazily put together 
 with seams everywhere and randomly appearing tears
  
  Sound : 1 The music reminds me of faceball 2000 which is also one of the worst games ever, a connection, 
 you think?
  
  Value : 1 "C'mon folks, com see the horror of all horrors, the friday night (mare) , the game that 
 isn't a game! Entree fee is $40"
  
  Tilt : 1 I don't hate this game because it's not even worthy of my hatred.
  
  Overall 1.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trigun0006
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 2, 2005 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Hands down, worst game ever. One of my friends had a few dollars and found it at some stupid store 
 (stupid for even carying the game) . He played it and i played it for a few minutes. thair is nothing 
 redeamable about this game. you clip through objects at all times, you dont have a real challenge, 
 or diffrence in vehicles and the models dont work well at all. He tried to return the game for 
 his $2, but he decided waiting for customer service for a while wasnt worth it, so we literly burned 
 and used some fireworks to finish it off. those fireworks were more expensive then the game, and 
 probably took longer to make than the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666net
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2005 3:06 am PT
Review:  After I started playing this game, I just can't stop! It is the revolution of ALL games in the universe! It 
 has the most brilliant gameplay and story I have ever encounter, it is even better than HALO.
 
  1) Graphic
  You WON"T believe it is a PC game! I should say, the developer makes a revolution of Personal Computer. In 
 fact, it looks like you're watching a movie (not cartoon-real!) in the cinema. There is a very real 
 truck model in game, with the terrain which makes you feel like you're traveling in the real world.
 
  
  2) Gameplay
  FANTASTIC man, FANTASTIC! The developer makes the difficulty just right, which combine with incredible 
 imagination element! Your truck is some kind of "Anti-Gravity Truck" (or whatever it is) , to defeat 
 your opponent (which is invisible! that's what I was talking about) , you can drive over the mountain 
 even if it is almost vertical. Also, to prevent you from crashing into buildings, you can activate (activated 
 in default) the 4-demmension drive which allows you to DRIVE THROUGH THEM!
  
  3) Others
  Convinent to ALL PLAYERS! You don't have to set whatever keys, only use your four direction key 
 to drive your super truck! As the fifth map, it is 
  forbidden originally until you break through all record to unlock it!
  
  My last sentence: Buy 
 it, you'll LOVE it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maskero2000
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 27, 2005 6:25 pm PT
Review:  no i have been through alot of games i have been playing video games since the atari 2600 but this 
 just blows you away with the crapiness i played this game for 7 mintues exactly (thats how you 
 know i was bored with the game if i counted the mintues i played) my head hurt so much of fustration 
 that my face was blood red theres no sound no collision detection no other racers is just you and 
 you can drive off the world (which wouldent be a bad thing if it had a use) this game doesnt deserve 
 anyones attention this game in my opnion well not appeal to anyone execpt for first time gamers 
 who are around 40-60 truckers and redneck (no offense to anyone out there) the only thing i wish 
 was that there was a rating of zero for these reviews 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drolian
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 27, 2005 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Eww... what were the makers thinking? This game is horrid in every aspect possible... I can't even 
 explain how bad it is, nor do I want to. None of these things in the game make sense, nor do they 
 work correctly. If you do buy this game, please, only do so for humour purposes and stress-relief. 
 It is really as bad as everyone says it is, if you don't trust my word, buy it and see... at your 
 own risk.
  
  I do not to see a game like this ever again, it is a disgrace to all games, and I doubt the makers 
 even tested the game, as it was made by some no-name company, let us all hope they won't make another 
 game again.
  
  This game isn't winner. =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlos71
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  If games could mate and have children, they would want their children to grow up to be this game. 
 The Picasso of PC Games. Nay, the Hope Diamond of PC Games. If you have ANY sense of decency or 
 morality you will buy this game. Graphics:
  Graphics? You want to test the limits of your graphics card? Don't even THINK of running this without 
 over clocking your card first. Not that you can actually adjust the settings but still, they're 
 pretty damn taxing on your system. You may need to place your PC Box in a refrigeration unit BEFORE 
 you load up this game, it's that hot!
  
  Gameplay:
  3 words, stu-pen-dous! Believe it! Nothing drives me NUTS more than playing a racing game and losing. 
 Not here! Self-esteem heaven with this game because you win always. Not to mention, you're invincible 
 and you can fly! Who needs drugs or PCP when you can shoot this gem into your gaming vein and feel 
 like you're a deity! Multiplayer:
  No multiplayer support BUT if you were dating Pamela Anderson, would YOU want to share her with 
 your buddies? I didn't think so....
  
  Conclusion:
  I can't stress the love I feel for, no the LUST I have towards this game. It's a graphically orgasmic 
 experience. Play this game and you'll know what mean.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antogall
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in this game is very good. Turns can be sharply executed and acceleration is a snap. 
 Unlike the typical racing game in which you have to drive a large vehicle, Big Rigs strays from 
 the typical formula by allowing you rapid acceleration, as well as braking. It should be noted 
 however, that the developers have decided to utilize a controversial style of gameplay; the physics 
 engine allows you to accelerate while driving at any angle, meaning you can climb nearly a vertical 
 hill, which makes your time trial with the AI a bit easier, a welcome addition. You can also drive 
 through any obstacle in the game, but this is also a welcome addition to help you defeat the AI, 
 who are brilliant, as you are about to find out. The AI is pretty amazing. Some object to the fact 
 that the other player never even moves, but according to certain philosophies and religions, it 
 is encouraged to maintain one's neutrality. The AI excell at this. I have never seen this level 
 of philosophical ingenuity in an AI character before; it's like you are playing against Plato!
 
  
  Graphics:
  For me, Big Rigs loses most of its points over graphics. There are some nice looking textures here 
 and there, but overall, the engine is nothing short of bland. The lights on the trucks look pretty 
 nice, and there is a high degree of detail in some of the levels. Some report actually seeing people 
 inside the houses, an innovative new level of detail. If only the developers had carried this sort 
 of idea throughout the rest of the engine, Big Rigs would have been a beautiful game.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is very good for two main reasons. First of all, there is a beautiful, sweeping 
 techno score that loops over and over throughout the different tracks. I have looked to see if 
 I can find this soundtrack on the internet, and for some reason, it isn't in high demand, despite 
 the fact that it contains highly addictive melodies and uses advanced counterpoint in some of the 
 composition. The other great thing about the sound is the fact that there are no sound effects. 
 This is a controversial decision on behalf of the game developers, but I think it's a great idea, 
 mainly because our ears are abused by noise so much each day, it's nice to sit back and relax in 
 peace and quiet. My ears need a break, and Big Rig delivers. Besides, Big Rigs deserves more credit; 
 silence is considered by many to actually be a sound. 
  
  Value:
  What can I say, there is no multiplayer support, but you'll probably want to play through the "campaign" 
 mode a few times at least. You'll enjoy being immersed in the fairy-tale world of silence and astounding 
 new physics, though it is the type of game that will get old after a couple months of repeated 
 gameplay.
  
  Tilt:
  As a video game itself, Big Rigs is nothing revolutionary, but it does have good gameplay, sound, 
 and value. Any gamer would probably enjoy these things. Where Big Rigs really shines is its philosophical 
 content; it brings new ideas such as the idea of neutrality and the sound of silence. Big Rigs 
 makes you think in a way that no other video game has ever made you think before, and, because 
 of this, I feel this game deserves a high tilt.
  
  Overall Reccomendation:
  If you are one of those people solely into buying a solid racing game, you will get your money's 
 worth by bying this game. However, if you are a person that can appreciate amazing philosophical 
 insight, this game will transform you in ways you thought video games (let alone the racing genre) 
 could never let you imagine. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: switch17
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 20, 2005 2:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is horrible. When i saw Alex's video i laughed, cried and almost died. The game costs 
 5 dollars, but thats too much to charge for a piece of trash like Big Rigs. There are no cops in 
 the game and no competition. Yeah you heard me your competition can't move. You can go through 
 items like houses and poles. You can go up the mountains and drive in mid-air. This game is terrible 
 and you will break the cd in half. Please don't buy this game, because your just encouraging the 
 makers to make some trash again. Never i mean never buy this game. You will be cursed if you buy 
 this game. I didn't believe this game existed. Going throuhg bridges and smashing through items 
 like na ghost and no carrier mode. I had to look at it and i watched a video on gamespot and i 
 was speechless. Peace! Don't buy it! Thanks and xbox 360 Call of duty 2 wasn't that good at bestbuy. 
 Try it out but you won't love it.!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wedding_Dress
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2005 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Reality is like a big turd, and there are a few delicious golden kernals of corn among all the 
 crap.
  
  Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is one of those delicious kernals. Not only does this game take 
 big fat trucker racing the a whole new level, but it does so in such a way, that YOU'RE WINNER 
 every time! 
  
  AI
  The AI is perfect, it was made especially for the best of the best gamers, who could not be bothered 
 by pathetic competition in a race. The AI already knows you're going to kick its ass, so the driver 
 doesn't even try... or commits suciside in the cab, (im not sure, but both are alright) .
  
  Graphics
  No game has ever captured the beauty of the highways of America. The rolling hills, 
 the asphalt, the finish line.... Pure beauty, only to be topped by God himself. The truck glistens 
 in the sun, and the weels spin as it races along.
  
  Length
  When you buy big rigs, this game is so WINNER you will be unable to bring yourself to play any 
 other game.... ever. So the length is forever, even in the afterlife you will be addicted to the 
 WINNERNESS of Big Rigs
  
  Sound
  This game can only be experienced in 12.1 surround sound. Since nobody has this yet, you cannot 
 fully experience it. The sound kicks ass btw.
  
  Overall
  This game kicks so much ass, mothers kick their babies over fences. Dogs crap everywhere, and clowns 
 strangle children... And thats just what happens in the first 30 seconds of play.
  
  Buy this game... in fact, buy 2, you may just need that extra copy when you put your fist through 
 your computer because of the awesomeness of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirvee
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 10, 2005 3:43 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why I'm bothering to even review something as horrible as this "game". What were the 
 people who made this.... this..... THING thinking?! This can't even be CALLED a game because of its 
 horridness! People who think this game is "awesome" are blind and shouldn't call themselves gamers.
 
  
  How is this game horrible? Oh, how long it would take to go down the list of all of the things 
 that make it such a waste of time and a waste of good money.
  
  Let's start with the Gameplay, clunky controls make the truck hard to control. This game has cra**y 
 camera angles and bad simulations. Words can't describe the magnitude of horridness and disgust 
 this game brings to gamers.
  
  The Graphics? All I see are horrible 2D drawings that look like a 10 year old drew them. I mean, 
 really, the truck can't even run into anything! It just goes right through them! Even houses! Oh, 
 and don't forget the amazing ability to cross the ending of the world to the otherside of it!
 
  
  The sound..... WHAT sound?! There is no sound! Not a beat of music not even action sounds like engine 
 running! This thing is completely soundless! Apparently the 10 year old that made this thing didn't 
 know a thing of music. How disappointing-___-.
  
  This game has no value whatsoever. A particle of dust has more value than THIS!
  
  All in all, 
 this "game" should have never been created and I truly feel sorry for the people who wasted their 
 money thinking this game would be so cool only to be disappointed later on. And I'm just appauled 
 by the certain people who call this game "awesome". Shame on you..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hossmann
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 9, 2005 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Only such great game developers like Stellar Stone and GameMill know what we don't know about the 
 slick, freshly-paved asphalts of Trucker Heaven. How else could they have made such a masterpiece 
 of a game such as Big Rigs? It appears that Stellar Stone can communicate with the dead truckers 
 of America... and it shows in this game.
  
  For the collaboration of these two fine gaming companies, we, the people of this crowded Earth, 
 have learned the following:
  
  - In Trucker Heaven, there is no other traffic on the road, just the truck and the road.
  - In 
 Trucker Heaven, truck do not need carriers on the back of them, since the shipment of supplies 
 already arrived at the final destination a long time ago
  - In Trucker Heaven, a truck is the supreme god of the land, crossing through objects, houses, 
 and steep, 90-degree hills with ease.
  - In Trucker Heaven, the vision from the truck is blocky and distorted, therefore giving the trucker 
 "The Perfect View" from a truck.
  - In Trucker Heaven, The only songs on the truck radio are soft quasi-techno hits from some far 
 out galaxy... it has been proven by old men in lab coats from some prestigious Eastern university 
 that this music allows the trucker to perform at optimum levels when it is on (hence it is called 
 Truckno) .
  - In Trucker Heaven, A truck can reverse backwards at an unlimited speed (The gods must've watched 
 Spaceballs! Ludicrous Speed!) and stop on a dime.
  - In Trucker Heaven, there are five "divine roads to Truckdom" and one of them is currently under 
 construction by Russian slave labor!
  - In Trucker Heaven, when you leave the restricted boundaries of the course, the truck performs 
 the newest dance craze in Trucker Heaven called "GlitchTruckADDno" causing the truck to jump all 
 across the map with great speed and allow the truck to have fun in the afterlife.
  - In Trucker Heaven, there is another truck, but he cannot move at the starting line.. and the 
 truck can go through him as well.
  - In Trucker Heaven, a truck does not need bridges to go across land and sea, for the truck glides 
 down the hill like a ninja in a Buddhist church and the camera does not even notice... in your 
 face, Big Brother!
  
  and last but certainly not least...
  
  - In Trucker Heaven, the trucker is always winner.
  
  So as you can see, these game developers 
 are, through eyewitness accounts, depicting the mass utopia that is Trucker Heaven. So before you 
 head to the houses of these game developers with torches, pitchforks, and Michael Moore, think 
 about Trucker Heaven and how it could be... since we could all be winner, if we just believe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dainternet
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 3, 2005 4:06 am PT
Review:  i wouldnt say that Big Rigs is bad, id say that its so horrible that i'd have have a less painful 
 experience clawing my eyeballs out of my sockets then playing big rigs. Big rigs takes awful to 
 a new level, it doesnt function right and if it did it still would be more fun to watch grass grow. 
 its basically torture but its more awful it has 3 levels and they all suck and apparently there 
 is supposed to be a chase of some sort but no there is none. and the AI doesnt move when you race, 
 it just stays there you'll be hitting yourself over and over again wondering why you bought such 
 an awful game. I certainly did. But if you bought this horrible game which is a mix of horrible 
 game-play, graphics and 1 annoying looping track i suggest you burn it. But if your addicted to 
 pain then this is the game for you. It saves you the trouble of walking to your local prison and 
 asking the executioner to paddle you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoppyfrog
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:53 am PT
Review:  "The Good"
  ........ uhh.....
  
  "The Bad"
  The game play, Sound (if you can call it that) , And just about everything els you can comprehend.
 
  
  "the ugly"
  Yo momma,
  Me,
  Jacko.
  
  In short i have craped out better "games" if you can call this udder piece of donky poo a game.
 
  
  This game is so bad the man or men responsible should be drug out in the street and shot over and 
 over and over. 
  
  And their houses should be burnt down and all their money should be given to repay the poor gamers 
 who bought this coaster
  
  And when i say this game is over rated it's because 1.0 is "Way" to high.
  
  YOUR A WINNER 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luram
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 2, 2005 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Oh my gosh. This si so stupid.
  How can anyone make anything as stupid as this.
  Some one must have been half sleeping and told their 2 year old daughter 
  too take care of the 
 rest while they took a nap and then played Halo 2.
  No one should waste money, time, or even their own worrying on a piece of 
  wipe like this.
 
  I took one good look at this game and just lied down while the car 
  just kept running.
  Who wants to run at a building, start cracking up, get ready for the crash,
  aaaaannnnnnddddddd...
 
  You just go strait through the building.
  
  It is the stupidist game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -tridgen-
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 30, 2005 2:40 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS CRAP I DONT LIKE IT IM SURE YOU HATE IT TOO
  omg i hate this game just dont play it it will make you puke its just horrible horrible horrible 
 horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible...
  I CAN CONTINUE ALL DAY IF YOU WANT this game is one crap its bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad 
 bad  
 only advise dont play this game it will make you kill yourself :) 
  besides who likes it me.. no i hate this gam omg im going crazy argh
  whoa omg this is the worse 
 game of all time this game SUX cs is the uber 1337 game this is one crap game if sombody buys this 
 game must be drunk or something 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2005 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Ive been waiting for this game to come out for 5 years!. The games gameplay is fantastic, it feels 
 like your driving a real truck. The games graphics are fantastic the trees look like trees and 
 thats saying something. The sound is great there is no anoying song like there is in tetris there 
 isnt even any sound at all. The game only costs $9.99 anyway its a steel. So i talked about everything 
 but tilt, i dont know what that means, so it must be perfect! So what are you waiting for go right 
 now, pick it up, what are you waiting for! 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hero_of_pie
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2005 11:10 am PT
Review:  Big Rigs is the most realistic racing game I have ever played. It has realistic physics, amazing 
 graphics, and some of the coolest features I have ever seen. For starters, the houses aren't really 
 there. They are holligrams. Roads? Who needs roads when you can leave the game world on it's own? 
 Bill Cosby don't need no roads! Finnally, there is no limit to what you can do. Wanna drive 300 
 miles per hour? Done. So in conclusion, Big Rigs is the greatest video game to ever be created. 
 
  
  If you believed ANY of that, here is a picture of the letter W for you to play with: 
  
  W 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_homes
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 16, 2005 2:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is as bad as Alex Navarro said it was. Horrible, piece of crap, dont call this a game, 
 no game play what so ever. You can go through bridges, and buildings, as i said its not complete. 
 Please Please dont play this game, its a complete waste of your time. Some times when u start the 
 game you win and it sais ''YOU'RE WINNER''. I have seen horrible games but not as horrible as this. 
 This game is so bad i cant even describe it. This game is so bad it makes me laugh. Please smack 
 any one who you know has this crapy game :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiafraBeliever
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 13, 2005 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Terrible. Complete crap. The game is funny especily the first time. Stuff such as buildings and 
 bridges are there visuaily, but not physicaily. If you watch the video review you'll see, you can 
 go right through bridges and buildings. Also, notice how there is a police car being hit by one 
 of the trucks on the cover of the game? Interesting, I never once saw a police car in the game. 
 Not worth buying, but worth playing once, cuz its funny stuff. But it gets really boreing. I seriously 
 don't know what to say. It's very hard to describe how bad the game is, you seriously have to experence 
 it. but if you do, be careful....
  
  All in all, the game is so bad and sloppy, I could have craped out a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carbinesoldier5
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 29, 2005 9:49 pm PT
Review:  What is this "game"? Is this a joke or something? I hardly don't put really low scores on games, 
 as games require many effort and work, but with this supposedly game... not much words are required. 
 I'm sure this game took about less than a year to be developed, and the producers and publishers 
 just wanted to make some easy money. Sure around 100 people here on GameSpot have it, but count 
 outside GameSpot. I highly doubt they make it to the 100,000 Units. 
  
  The game supposedly say you are a Trailer driver that has to deliver some cargo to some place with 
 exciting police chases. You are very excited to read it, but when you install it... oh the world... 
 you wish you wouldn't have waisted your money and your time with this "game". Sure I didn't bought 
 it, Just for watching the demo movies and screen shots I knew what it was like, though I played 
 it in other place. It even has no point. Your truck goes much more faster in reverse, you can pass 
 trough buildings, you can even get outside of the map. The only sound it has is one soundtrack 
 that you hear over and over again. The AI does not even work, you always see the infamous "You're 
 winner!" message over and over again (If you install the patch the opponent can maybe move)
  
  For true gamers, this is an insult for Video Gaming, so don't waste your time with this, but 
 if you are curious... it's up to you. And it can be a cute gift, but, when you play it it gets 
 really different and wished you were given some clothes or something more productive.
  And for people that don't care about bugs (that this game has the most) , give it a try. You can 
 see that many people had enjoyed it, for reasons they have, they even explain why. For me, this 
 isn't close to a game, while for others is the best game ever, they have their reasons and interests 
 or are just joking. So, if you want to play this "game", see it for yourself, you can like it, 
 or you wouldn't like it. I don't know how you can take it, as all humans are different.
  
  End of Review. Have a nice day and happy playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ea_master
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 29, 2005 11:17 am PT
Review:  Big Rigs is a mess. The whole code was obviously done by a work-experience monkey or by Satan himself. 
 The problems with Big Rigs are very, very numerous, so we'll flesh it out, hey, just to make those 
 that own it squirm...
  
  Problem 1: Bridges are supposed to be solid. In this game, they are made of air. The truck you 
 control simply falls through them, and pops out of the earth when you've crossed. I'm starting 
 to be a bit concerned...
  
  Problem 2: AI Opponents in this game are supposed to give you a fun and exciting challenge while 
 racing. The opponent Trucks do not move. EVER. They just stand still when the race starts, and 
 there are no exceptions.
  
  Problem 3: Gameworlds are supposed to be huge. In Big Rigs, you can simply drive to the end of 
 the very small world and drive off into thin air. I thought game designers only took acid in the 
 60's.
  
  Problem 4: Houses and buildings are solid in all games that I know. In Big Rigs, they are not. 
 You can simply drive your truck straight through anything. Even through stationary opponent Trucks. 
 I'm very scared now.
  
  Problem 5: The point of games is that you control what goes on. In Big Rigs, after braking or reversing 
 (or driving off the edge of the Game World) , the truck has a spastic attack and does insane donuts, 
 while the camera just goes mental (and very blurry, shaky and weird) . I want control... but you 
 know, you just can't have it in Big Rigs...
  
  Problem 6: Graphics are horrendous. The environments are bland and washed out, with no textures 
 and a distinct lack of polygon models. When I was driving around the mountainside, I saw that my 
 truck looked like a brick with wheels. And the game was released in the same year as Metroid Prime... 
 geez...
  
  Problem 7: Sound is absent. All there is to it. No sound, no music, no FX. Nuthin'...
  
  Problem 
 8: Even if all these problems had been adressed, Big Rigs would still be very, very boring... and 
 completely dire and unoriginal.
  
  All in all, Big Rigs is a fantastic game and is well worth your money if you can overlook a few 
 flaws... i'm a sarcastic person... But really, it's really good for a laugh or for use as a frisbee... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lquidsnake133
Rating: 2.4
Date: Sep 14, 2005 6:24 am PT
Review:  First this game sucks don't buy it unless you did what I did, got 9 other people to help my buy 
 the game, review it, make fun of it, watch every bad review, and show it to all my vid game buddies, 
 and after all this destroy it, and tell x-play what I did. 
  
  Gameplay- truck games are all about being a bad ass distructive driver. All this stuff counts if 
 you call climing mountians, going through objects, and winning every time bad ass. Theres no AI 
 to race so you always win and you can also drive off the map. The trucks don't feel like trucks 
 when driving. This game is really glitchy. Its so glitchy that one of the 4 maps don't load. The 
 title should be under the road racing because when you drive on bridges you fall through them. 
 The best part of the game is when you win you get the message "You're Winner." If you think the 
 gameplay is fun (not funny) then go to rehab NOW! What your smoking now is stronger than what the 
 namco guys are smoking while making Karimashi Dismashi.
  
  Graphics- the graphics are bad. The textures are bad. I couldn't tell what was hanging behind the 
 car. The head lights were hanging. This is what would life would look like if it was made by satin. 
 8 bit looks better. At least in pole position the lights actually stay with the car and I can tell 
 what I'm actually driving. 
  
  Sound- All I can hear is:
  A. Bad looping music
  B. My screams of playing this game
  C. My laughter
  
  Comedy- This is one of the most funniest 
 games ever. It is right below GTA, Conker, and the Mario RPG's. The weird thing is it's not trying 
 to be funny. From the horibleness of the game to the "You're Winnner" this is pure comedy. All 
 the reviews are funny. I was laughing my head off while watching X-play & Gamespot This is like 
 "The Producers" where they try to make a movie so bad that it's good. This should be the only reason 
 you buy this game.
  
  Value-This brings nothing new and this game will die after 1 minute, though you'll be laughing 
 every time the words "you're winner." 
  
  Tilt while you play 4pts: This game is sooooooooooo boring but funny. If you stop laughing then 
 stop playing until the comedy value grows back.
  
  Tilt after you play 9pts: You can laugh at the game like it was a bad memory. You will still be 
 able to laugh at "You're Winner"
  
  Overview- This great item to laugh at, and it makes a great item to blow up, flush, and hit with 
 a hammer. If you don't like comedy in video games read this:
  A. If you get this as a gift that means the person that gave it to you hates you
  B. If you bought 
 this game you're an idiot
  C. If you give this game above a 5 out of 10 (not because of the comedy) "You're winner." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthonysiffredi
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 31, 2005 12:25 am PT
Review:  Let me start off my saying, i would have given this "game" a 0.0 if i could. Second, this game 
 sucks, don't play it. There is nothing good worth saying about this "game". Even calling it a "game" 
 might be a push. The graphics look like a NES game, you can crash your CPU by going backwards. 
 HELL! You can go INTO a mountain if you want. This "game" was created as a joke and no one is laughing. 
 On a plus side, this "game" can be found FREE in your local trash bins and behind Gamestop dumpsters. 
 Just stay away from this piece of trash!
  
  G-U NOT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redsoxrule666
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2005 1:36 am PT
Review:  Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is the greatest game I have, or will ever, play. The gameplay is 
 extremely fun. You can drive through anything in the game, including your opponent. This effectively 
 gets rid of the frustration of crashing into stuff like in other games. It's also the only game 
 on the market that lets you drive past the speed of light... in reverse! As for the competition, 
 there is none! How fun is it to win a race every single time?! And when you win a race, you receive 
 an immensely satisfying trophy with the phrase "YOU'RE WINNER!" under it. Big Rigs' graphics are 
 stunning, probably even more realistic than real life. The game has no sound effects, but why would 
 you want to hear the annoying noises of real trucks anyway? The game's only other sound effect 
 is a looping techno track that's so catchy, it'll have you humming for months! Big Rigs has a total 
 of 4 awesome looking trucks to choose from, but 2 of them don't have trailers, giving you total 
 control over what you race. There are 5 levels to choose from, but one doesn't work (it looked 
 boring anyway) . These levels are HUGE, letting you drive right off the world and into the grey 
 void for countless miles. Big Rigs' price is also incredible, you can get it for only about $5.00! 
 Of course finding a copy can be difficult since stores run out of it so quickly.
  
  Big Rigs is perfect for audiences of all ages. I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stafax
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 11, 2005 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I have no idea where to begin, there is so little content for it to be reviewed.
  
  The graphics are horrible, plain looking trucks with no detail to them. You get to chose between 
 four trucks and only one has a trailer. The ground constantly disappears and you can see the glow 
 effects of lights bleed through the mountains and other objects.
  
  The sound is almost non existent. There are only two sounds, a generic engine humming and a sound 
 for hitting the brakes. No music or anything else.
  
  The game play is horrible. TONS of clipping. You can literally go through any object. Grass, dirt, 
 mountains, and any other off road terrain does NOT slow you down. You can even go through your 
 opponent. Your opponent does not even move before the patch is installed. And when you do install 
 the patch, the opponent moves incredibly slow and never crosses the finish line, so there is NO 
 way to lose. You only have one lap to race and can not change it to more laps even though it says 
 "Lap 01/01" on the top corner. Infact, you can't chose many things at all in this game. You have 
 four trucks that look very similar and 5 tracks that are completely horrible.
  
  There is no replay value to this game at all. It might be good for laughs the first two times playing 
 it, but after that there's no point to it at all. There is no multiplayer mode (like if you wanted 
 one to begin with) and the single player mode provides next to nothing at all. With the countless 
 amounts of bugs, the horrible graphics, and lack of gameplay at all makes this game just utterly 
 useless.
  
  Overall, this game is complete crap. In fact, it didn't even come with a cd case inside the box, 
 it only had the cd in a cd envelope. The ONLY use for this game is to give to someone for a gift 
 as some type of twisted joke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reox_8888
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 5, 2005 7:09 am PT
Review:  Big Rigs Over The Road Racing is an amazing game. It is a defining game. This is truly the worst 
 game of all time! The graphics suck, the sound sucks, the game play sucks, the sound effects suck, 
 the sound effects suck, the trucks suck, the A. I. sucks, the value sucks, the environments suck, 
 THIS GAME SUCKS. It really is sad when a game's best feature is it's box art. Do not buy this game, 
 do not rent this game, do not think about this game. It really is that bad. Did I mention this 
 game sucks? Because it does! If you have not figured it out yet BIG RIGS OVER THE ROAD RACING SUCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rudyfan04
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 23, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is actually one of the worst games I have EVER played. There is no point to it, and so 
 many glitches and stuff. It looks like it was made by a 5th grader, if he could make one. Stellar 
 Stone, the developer, should be driven out of business. Even though the game only probably had 
 a $100 budget. If actually only biught this game because I really wanted to see how bad it is. 
 Now if you buy it you will get some good laughs, but if it's over $10 don't buy it. It is just 
 so bad, I mean you actually fall through the bridges when you ride on them, and you can go so much 
 faster than a truck could really go, and then stop to 0 in about 1 second. This game like I said 
 is the worst I have ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mp3_bk
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2005 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Big Rigs is surely the greatest game of all time!. I mean, how much creativity was used in this 
 game, loads!. I never thought that there would be a game where you could always win and I have 
 found one!. I was always terrible at racing games, but thanks to this game I can never lose thanks 
 to my opponent who doesn't move ever!. I never thought a truck could go millions of miles an hour. 
 This game allows you to break that record. You simply spin around in circles backwards and you 
 literally go millions of miles how fantastic is that!. The obstacles, what obstacles? There are 
 none, but the game cleverly makes you think they are there to avoid them when you can simply just 
 drive through them!. Simply brilliant!. You can drive off the level which is amazing since most 
 games won't allow you to do that. How could the controls have gotten easier? They couldn't. Just 
 use the arrow keys and your truck is off. The graphics, they have got to be the best I have ever 
 seen in a game. The trucks are really detailed and the levels have photographic realism in them!. 
 There are no sounds in Big Rigs, but the Techno track in the game is pretty cool. I think this 
 game should have won game of the year because so much effort was put into it to make it into a 
 unique and thriving experience on a racing game. Simply a must buy for any gamers out there!.
 
  
  Review by HeHe
  
  A game like this hasn't appeared on the market. The original, and the best truck racing game ever.
 
  If you find racing difficult, it's ok on Big Rigs, you'll win every time guarenteed.
  And what's better is the revolutionary stop engine for the game; your opponent never moves, and 
 you may wish to drive through him.
  
  The contols are very well layed out with the up, down, left and right arrows making it very easy 
 to guide your highly detailed truck around.
  
  The music for the game is also stunning. The brand new midi music format makes a welcome appearance, 
 with lovely techno to make you drive like stink.
  
  Also i have never seen a truck go so fast, i reversed at 1billion miles an hour. This really is 
 a space age game.
  
  At $5 it's stunning value as well, and we couldnt' find any fault with the driving of the map and 
 flying gameplay.
  
  Quite incredible.
  
  Review by MP3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Se_BBB_e
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 3, 2005 11:06 am PT
Review:  Many are saying you shouldn't buy Big Rigs, but I think you should support Stellar Stone so they 
 can make more laughable games. This game is extremely funny.
  
  Pros
  1. None
  2. Its funny
  
  Cons
  1. You can drive right through all objects
  2. You always win
  
 3. You can drive outside the map
  5. You can drive straight up 90 degree hills
  4. You can drive as fast as you want - backwards
  6. There are many graphical glitches
  7. 
 One of five levels doesn't work
  8. The trucks are very ugly
  9. The lights on the trucks are unaligned, they simply aren't in the right place
  11. The numbers 
 don't fit in their boxes
  Sometimes, you win just by starting the game, without a singe button press
  15. There is no AI, 
 the other truck never moves
  You can switch to the opponent truck win TAB, and then back again, but the third time, the game 
 crashes
  17. You're winner
  18. This review sucks
  19. It actually costs money
  20. You can download a patch which make the opponent actually move - but it stops again a couple 
 of metres before the goal
  532. The highest graphical mode available is "medium".
  5. There is NO sound effects
  70. Stellar Stone deosnt' know enlisch
  71. Tons more
  72. 
 GOTO 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsOmniaC777
Rating: 1
Date: May 7, 2005 1:49 am PT
Review:  Every once in a while, a great game comes out, and becomes a favorite 2 everyone, this game ISN'T 
 at all 1 of these games. HAHAHA, this game is hillarious. I keep watching videos 4 this game, and 
 enjoy 2 ridicule its awfulness. It is as if ur rig is magnetically attached 2 the ground, because 
 u never leave it, even going over bridges, u still r going 2 be attached 2 the ground. This game 
 should be burnt, destroyed, and inserted into the nearest toilet and flush. Never get this game, 
 it is easy. So easy, ur opponent doesn't even move, when the race begins. And the game lets u automatically 
 win, almost every time. Avoid at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thelistman
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2005 3:22 am PT
Review:  Stellar Stone is a very new company. They were formed just very recently and have made only one 
 game - Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing. For a small budget they made quite an incredible game which 
 was published by GameMill Publishing. Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing features good graphics, realistic 
 truck sounds, and some killer gameplay for all to enjoy. 
  
  Gameplay - The most important aspect of a game is the gameplay and this is where Big Rigs: Over 
 the Road Racing shines. There are five different races and four different trucks to choose from. 
 When you start a race you only race with one other truck. But the catch is that the other truck 
 does not move. You always win the race. How great is it to always win? And when you finish, you 
 are shown a screen with the words Youre Winner and a trophy. The races are straight forward 
 and linear. But you do not have to follow the path you are set. There is a huge free world to explore 
 in every level. All the levels are filled with lush trees, big houses, and large mountains that 
 you can scale up if you want to. Heck you can even go right through the houses if you want and 
 drive right through trees which tones down the frustration of trying to handle a Big Rig. 
  
  Story  Now there is no story line presented to you in the game. It is a racing game, so it 
 does not need a story. But on the back of the box there is a brief description of your mission. 
 You are a trucker and need to be paid. So you must race your rival to the next checkpoint to advance 
 your earnings. There are many obstacles to avoid including a police roadblock. 
  
  Graphics  The graphics are not so bad. The trucks look like trucks. The landscape is quite detailed 
 and the environments are very nice looking. Every tree is carefully placed and decorated. The houses 
 and other obstacles are also well done. The road and mountains also look quite real. The mountains 
 have small details like rocks, rough edges and snow to create a realistic feel. You feel like you 
 are actually in a real living world. The developers did a great job in this department.
  
  Sound  This is probably the weakest part of Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing. There are some good 
 sound effects. The trucks all have powerful engines which roar before the race begins. The acceleration 
 and brake sound effects are also well done. But there is no music. That is too bad. But on the 
 plus side, this does allow you to play your own CDs while playing Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing.
 
  
  Playtime/Replayability  Even with only five tracks and four trucks, that leave you with a potential 
 twenty different scenarios to play through. And with all the open environments, you could spend 
 hours in one sitting just to explore one level. Even more interesting is the World of Grey. You 
 can actually drive off the edge of a level and continue driving. This adds much more exploration 
 where you can drive far off and try to find your way back, or just continue driving into the grey.
 
  
  Final Recommendation  Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is quite an accomplishment. With such a small 
 budget, it is incredible that Stellar Stone was able to make such an awesome game. The graphics 
 will amaze you. The open levels will hook you for hours and the gameplay will keep you playing 
 for a long time. Buy this game as soon as you see it. Because you don't play Big Rigs, you live 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saxaphone50
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 2, 2005 12:13 am PT
Review:  All right, forget every racing game you've ever played. In fact, forget every GAME you've ever 
 played. Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is the one and only name you need to remember. Why? Because 
 I guarantee you that you'll be playing this game so much that you won't have TIME for any other 
 game. My time with Big Rigs was undoubtedly the best gaming experience I ever had in my 10 or so 
 years of gaming. I assure you, this game will meet your every desire... that is, if you come to 
 it with an open mind.
  
  Some mistake the gameplay for "boring, glitchy, and too easy." This is not the case. The gameplay 
 is superior to all other racing games released in the last year, I can tell you that. The controls 
 are simple, yet you will notice that they have a certain complexity when you start playing. The 
 Rigs handle just like real ones, meaning that you can accelerate to limitless speeds and stop/turn 
 on a dime. The only real gripe I have is that the difficulty is... nonexistant. You will win every 
 race, due to the face that your opponents don't race. They just sit there. But this barely distracts 
 from the awesome gameplay.
  
  Actually, the only thing that does distract from the gameplay are mind-blowing graphics, coupled 
 with the excellent sound. Forget Halo 2. Forget Half-Life 2. Forget... well, everything. These 
 are some of the best graphics in gaming, and the sound only enhances them. The toe-tapping tunes 
 will have you humming them in the most inappropriate places, like in the middle of a test or at 
 your sisters wedding. Proof of a genius musical score.
  
  In short, Big Rigs is much more than a game... it is a nonstop source of amusement and enjoyment. 
 And, if you take my advice, and buy this game, (costs about... maybe $5, if you can find a copy) 
 then you, my friend, you shall be a WINNER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20313933169115882431660409030136-masteruvdragons
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 9, 2005 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is just flat-out horrible, few of the community reviewers gave it a 9.0 or higher! That's 
 the travesty here. THE GAME SUCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! (and here's why....)
  
  1. Graphics-1.0- Driving in a box that just happens to look like a truck woo-hoo. No graphical 
 collision, very ugly, and voids galore.
  
  2. Game Play-1.0-Reversing at a very high speed is clunky and you can't change the default controls. 
 Very bad idea.
  
  3. Sound-1.0-Well that's simple because.... THERE ISN'T ANY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  4. Value-1.0-No 
 One will play it (hopefully) ever.
  
  5. Rev. Tilt-1.0-Stellar Stone needs to die for making this crap of a game. So does Game-Mill.
 
  
  Don't play this game. There is better... Way better.
  
  1.0 Final Score 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OzzKev55
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 3, 2005 1:27 am PT
Review:  Anyone who gives a bug filled, unplayable, horrible designed, PoS game like this a rating above 
 the minimum requirement, needs to be given a copy of Starcraft, and this game, put in a cell, and 
 given a year to waste their time, i think well see which game was played more. mean come on theres 
 no content, i think Mr. Navarro can verify for that. games test skill, this game tests your sense 
 of judement, shopping skills, gift buying, and tolerance for torture. im submitting this game to 
 communist china in hopes that they adopt a more painful torture device, than any bamboo shoots 
 could bring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceBlack
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 16, 2005 4:30 am PT
Review:  There is one place this game belongs, and that's six feet under- a nuclear plant. In a ziplock 
 bag. Being poked by demons of hell, or something like that. It's bad.... very bad.
  
  I'd rather not waste my time saying everything Alex said. He reviewed that game so I wouldn't have 
 to. So, Alex... I feel your pain, and I wish I didn't. This is one of those pains you don't want 
 to share. It's like being skewered on a stake alongside someone. Kind of hard to take comfort in 
 that you share it.
  
  Alex... I'm very sorry. If Greg won't give you a raise, just remind him you played this god-awful, 
 craptastic, gag-worthy game. If he still won't give it to you, dare him to play it until he does. 
 Once he's on the stake with us, I'm sure he'll understand.
  
  -Ace
  
  P. S- I can't pick multiple classifications? What a bummer.
  
  P. S. S- my real score is somewhere 
 in the negatives.... or at least, it must be, because there is not yet a number low enough for 
 this game. The lowest number that is just invented will always be this games score... let's just 
 call it variable C- for crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fodonico
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 7, 2005 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Stellar Stone is the name of the Developer that brought us this "masterpiece".
  
  Okay this is no true Stellar can be the name of the Developer but this (can I even call it like 
 this) game is more than a mile distant of this level why? Because of some basic stuff like:
  
  First: You can go 1000+ miles per hour by going reverse wow that's a revolution
  
  Second: 
 Tons I said TONS of graphical Glitches and other stuff that no decent game developer would permit 
 to be in a game by an example if you crash in anywhere you will just cross it yeah I'm being serious 
 here. Other thing the models in this game are just CRAP yean CRAP and I repeat it CRAP if you see 
 a Screenshot it makes you want to throw up
  
  Third: The Dumbest AI ever you can stop by 10 seconds that you will still win because the other 
 trucks don't actually MOVE.
  
  And last: YOU ARE A WINNER!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webswinger526
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 22, 2005 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Well, I don't quite know where i should start with this game. Ok, for starters, I didn't even know 
 what this exactly was. When I started playing this game, if anyone can call it that, I was with 
 a bunch of friends, and I thought they might have slipped something into my drink as a joke. Much 
 to my surprise, they hadn't. I do believe that something was slipped into the drink of whoever 
 was making this game. Anyways, people say that this game is bad. It is, I'm not gonna lie. It is 
 really bad. But, that doesn't mean that it deserves a 1. Other games deserve a 1. This game is 
 lucky that I am in a good mode while i write this, so, I'll give it a 1.5. Actually, I'm not in 
 a good mode. I'm in a very bad mood. Back to this thing. Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is a poor 
 attempt at a racing game. Wait, did I call this a game again? Oh well.
  
  Lets talk gameplay. There I go with that game again. When the you get the signal to go, and you 
 start driving, the other guy doesn't follow you. Hmm, thats odd. Lets continue driving. As I came 
 up to a bridge, I realized that i started to fall. Thinking this was the end, I was about to quit, 
 when, the truck just sat there. Whatever, stupid fake bridge, stupid sleeping opponent. I continue 
 on, and, getting extremely bored and aggravated, I just decided to start driving around. Seems 
 that the truck has the same wall-crawling capabilities as Spider-Man. Interesting. I started driving 
 up mountains, and went completely off the actual game world. DAMN!!! I said it again. Driving on 
 absolute nothingness, I thought now would be a great idea to get high, seeming as it might make 
 this experience slightly better. I will admit that I laughed quite a couple of times. Laughed at 
 the fact that I was still playing this, at me falling through bridges, at all the pretty colors. 
 Whoa, well, thats that. At the point I handed the game back to my friend, and thretened his life. 
 Last time I see that again.
  
  Now that I look back on these events, I see the purpose for this game. It was meant to be a game 
 played by people who were at the time stoned, and needed something to laugh at. Then they can get 
 arrested. Not for smoking an illegal substance, but for playing this game. There is not much that 
 I can say, except to not play this game, unless your high. Do not play Big Rigs. Simple as that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterRiley2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 19, 2005 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a really funny game. It is so bad in so many areas, that you cant just help but laugh. 
 A great gift for pranks. I gave it a 0 for sound probably cause there is no sound what so ever. 
 If you are a serious gamer though, this is not your game. You will blow your top trying to play 
 this game. Sometimes it will let u win, without even starting the race. In addition to that, the 
 othere players wont even race sometimes. Overall, this is a game just for laughs. There is no need 
 to take it seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rover301
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 12, 2005 2:22 pm PT
Review:  You can't call this a game. There isn't any game play. It's unfinished and the graphics are the 
 worst I've ever seen. This isn't racing, this is clipping. The trucks look more like black spots 
 on your screen. The sound or how you call it is terrible. This thing that calls himself a game 
 is just terrible. If it was released in 1979 it was revolutionary. But this is 2003. Maybe the 
 creators should take a look at the Burnout series or the NFS series. This game is scarier then 
 Doom 3 or Silent Hill. And that is not a compliment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timmhy
Rating: 4.2
Date: Feb 7, 2005 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Big Rigs: Over The Road Racing. It's a terrible game, but it does not deserve a 1. 
  
  Gameplay: 1
  Abysmal. Horrible. The game's inconsistent. Not so much to say about this.
  
 
  Graphics: 3
  They're quite inconsistent, but they aren't terrible. They look quite realistic. It's not anything 
 special, but it's also not very bad. If they weren't so inconsistent, I'd have given them a 7.
 
  
  Sound: 1
  AHHHHHHHHHH! I HATE THIS GAME'S SOUNDTRACK! IT'S HORRENDOUS!
  
  Value: 2
  It's fun for a few days, then not anymore.
  
  Tilt: 10
  I invited all my friends 
 over to come and look at this game and I have never seen them laughing so much. You'll make yourself 
 a popular guy with this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Britcey
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 31, 2005 4:44 pm PT
Review:  ive read the review on gamespot among other and they all dissed the game emensoly.... but i dint 
 think it could be that bad with no features to speak of...... but man i was wrong
  
  i picked this game a ta garge sale for bought 2 bucks (canadian)
  
  i unstalled the game and 
 was plain shocked...... this game looks like it was half done and plays the eact same im not even 
 metioning how unisnpired the levels are or how the cpu lets you win or how the other racer doesnt 
 move or no cop chases.... but thats not why i had the urge to write this review
  
  
  what id ont underatnd is what company would actually buy this game from them...
  
  was it a 
 bribe?
  Were they do some kind of illegal narcotic?
  
  
  The games readme file says the games been tested..... but we all no thats *words removed*
  
 
  buget titles come out all the time.. and rarely are there good ones (beside classic collections) 
 but this one is plain deplorable.... like alex said "yeah it might be funny as a gag gift but buying 
 this pieces off garbage is just urging them to make cruddy games like these
  
  any good qualities of this game? its amusing. only because off the fact of hoew horrible it is....
 
  
  what im more mad at is why did i spend that 2 bucks... i could got some gum, or a bar... or
  *just 
 sorta wonders off*
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: red4ce
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 31, 2005 7:38 am PT
Review:  Yeah yeah so this game is really bad. Its filled with bugs and it doesn't actually work. But big 
 rigs actually amused me for a little bit. Normally, I'd write about how bad this game is but since 
 its been criticized so badly by everyone else, my review will focus on the positives.
  
  Gameplay - 4
  Sure you could say it should get a 1 for calling itself a racer when you dont actually 
 race in the game, but this is actually a somewhat good thing. In most racing games, you go so fast 
 that you dont have time to look at the environment even if it looks good. In big rigs, you can 
 take your sweet little time exploring the world, and hey what other game allows you to go through 
 objects and drive off the map? I remember playing Mario 64 and I would be running around and then 
 WHAM! this invisible wall in every level would prevent me from exploring any further. This restriction 
 doesn't exist in big rigs. Also, though the controls aren't terribly realistic, the fact that you 
 can go full speed or turn in any direction in half a second means you won't be frustrated by not 
 being able to turn around fast enough like in more modern racing games.
  
  Graphics - 3
  Sure the graphics look really terrible, but they're consistent. With so many good looking, realistic 
 games nowadays we don't get to see the inside of a house in a driving game very often now do we? 
 Also, this is one of the few games where objects look better far away than they do close up. Besides, 
 you should be able to run this game on any graphics card. Plus, the game looks better than anything 
 on the N-Gage and its fully 3-D which is definitely better than those $20 educational games or 
 free flash games on the internet.
  
  Sound - 1
  Well, this probably was the most dissappointing part of the game since, well, it didn't really 
 have any.
  
  Value - 4
  Even if you just spent all your money on Halo 2, Half LIfe 2, GTA: San Andreas, a Nintendo DS, 
 and all the other good games that have come out recently, you should still be able to get this 
 game without having to mortgage your home. Even if you did pay the 6 bucks this game is supposed 
 to cost, it does give you at least a couple of chuckles which is more than you can say about some 
 movies.
  
  Tilt - 2
  Because of the horrid reviews this game has been getting, I was expecting to completely hate this 
 game. However, this game was better than I expected, something even Halo 2 can't claim. Sure it's 
 probably the worst game I have ever played, but it didn't cause me any headaches, which many games 
 do. Given the game's low cost (assuming you actually pay for it) there's certainly many other ways 
 you can waste your time and money. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Capitalist
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is purely the most amazing game I have ever seen. Although many have condemned it, I 
 find it extremely interesting and a blast to play.
  
  Firstly, let's talk of gameplay. Gameplay-wise, one can race a truck all through America, while 
 trying to avoid the police and delivering your illegal cargo to an intended point. The maps are 
 infinitely large, thus allowing many exploration opportunities for the player.
  
  Secondly, with graphics. Graphics-wise, the graphics are excellent. With great looking trucks, 
 vehicles, buildings, unique levels, and great lighting, this game comes out on top. Also, the physics 
 are done expertly.
  
  The music and sound in this game comprises of several excellent techno music tracks, and some great 
 sound effects that sound like real-world sounds. 
  
  With large levels, great gameplay, great graphics, great sound, and the awesome WINNERness of this 
 game, Big Rigs is a great classic for any to pick up and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrlGmr
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 12, 2005 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Everyone else has already gone over the horrid graphics, the total lack of physics or any form 
 of collision detection, nonexistant AI (and we're talking REAL nonexistant here, folks, there isn't 
 any at all) the sheer broken-ness of the entire game. I got it for free and felt ripped off. So 
 I'll keep it short and say that we should all pray that there will never be a Big Rigs 2. If there 
 is, count on the entire Universe reversing the Big Bang and going on a critical implosion due to 
 the sheer amount of suck. Hey, we're almost there already with Big Rigs 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valve_89
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 29, 2004 3:24 am PT
Review:  It's a game?, Come on people, Stellar stone must fix 100% this game, the graphics are so bad, because 
 you can go outside the map, the shadows are incorrect, and the floor changes every second. The 
 sound is horrible, and the gameplay too.
  But if you are a "trucks fan", you can buy this game, but I'm not recomended.
  So,
  Big Rigs, 
 has won a horrible gold cup. I put a 2 in Gameplay, because it is easy to drive.
  The the difficult I can't say anything, and the learning Curve too. I saw one of the movies and 
 it proves that this game is so bad.
  Anything more to say?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth-revan
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 25, 2004 4:08 am PT
Review:  i normally review high quality games but i decided i'll see if the peice of **** is real. i hated 
 this game so much i threw it outside and a couple of friends saw what happens if i throw magnets 
 on the disk. put it in the microwave, and sludge it. it was fun. if you want to see a piece of 
 **** game and see it for yourself then go ahead... otherwise this sucks. no colision detection. 
 no sound. there is no A. I. you can leave the game completly into a void. and at least the devolopers 
 did something right. and that was at least you have actual gameplay. even though it sucks congrats 
 devolopers for makin the ****in ****iest game i ever ****en played you ***es. if i could it would 
 get a zero. it doesnt even deserve the one. it doesnt deserve any rating. go punch whoever made 
 this game please and have the never ake a sequal. gta taught me something . how to kill devolopers 
 so c ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarknessTDA
Rating: 1.2
Date: Dec 13, 2004 9:12 pm PT
Review:  If you buy this game, ready your trash can shortly after. This game feutures about as much gameplay 
 experience as installation exitement. Absolutely nada! (nothing) This game isn't bad; becouse it's 
 literally no game at all!
  
  What games is supposed to have is a good gameplay. The gameplay is ultimately what makes the games 
 fun in length. Graphics can give a first impression, but it is the gameplay that really matters. 
 Well, this game has a gameplay... You can:
  Drive forward.
  Turn around.
  Drive back with unlimited speed.
  Explore a limitless world without any content! (The maps has 
 no boundaries)
  Choose from 4 diffirent trucks which all looks horrable.
  Select 5 diffirent tracks, whereas one of them doesn't work.
  Be happy by knowing that you're 
 winner!
  Climb mountains in a truck. (The game has no physics)
  Race against a truck that doesn't know how to start the truck. (No AI)
  Drive through every single 
 object in the world. (No collision)
  Watch some textures which looks like something created in 1995.
  Listen to some completely dumb 
 and short sound tracks.
  The above basically covers it!
  
  Okey... This is really feuturing, so you should defenately buy it! (lieindicator starts the alarm) 
 Seriusly... This game has no quality at all. You can't lose; so there is no gameplay... in fact. 
 So... all you can basically do is to drive around in an ugly car and have fun with that. You propably 
 won't get much fun at all.
  
  This game is currently being sold on the market for 5$. Pick up a copy, and you can consider yourself 
 stolen. That low is the quality of this game. It is currently in my trash can, and it's not going 
 to get up from there! Seriusly, if they spread out a virus, you would be pissed and ask for a removal 
 by your anti-virus company! It only takes up space.
  
  This just don't stand. If you ever consider buying this game after reading this review, your brain 
 score can't that high. Stellar Stone is also a completely dumb person. So... you get 5 hours of 
 gameplay and you are sick of it. It's a pure disaster... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RothTheHunter
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 12, 2004 8:42 pm PT
Review:  The game Big Rigs has been released recently by a company called "We Have No Idea As To What We're 
 Doing". Their attempt at a truck-driving game is superior compared to that of the truck driving 
 games you would play had you not killed yourself the moment you played this.
  
  Being a compact driver myself, I never have known how it feels to drive a truck. This form of truck-driving 
 has been modeled so well, so ingeniously, your brain will explode at the true-to-life abilitity 
 of driving a completely black truck while defying gravity in your  
 graphical abomidation as you glide on mountains with ease.
  
  This review is meant to show the true compacity of this intelligent game, so here it goes:
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  The End. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterHarryZ
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 26, 2004 12:08 am PT
Review:  Theres a new reason not to play Big Rigs: Over The Road Racing  by purchasing it, you could be 
 putting money into the Russian Mafias pockets!
  
  As I write this, I have just witnessed the official Worst Game Ever. And I say witnessed, not 
 played, because I have watched Alex Navarros video review of Big Rigs: Over The Road Racing. 
 At first, I was stunned. How could anyone possibly declare this game to be finished and worthy 
 of general release?
  
  But then I started to probe further. Inspired by the more rational Community Reviews, I checked 
 out the website of Stellar Stone, the company responsible for BROTRR. Half the links dont work, 
 and the other half lead to pages so badly written that theyre almost illegible. This company 
 site reinforced my belief that the whole charade is either a sick joke, or the work of a five-year-old. 
 Either way, this game should NEVER have been released on an unsuspecting public. Even if Stellar 
 Stone (whoever they are) wanted to release it, why did GameMill, the publishing company that put 
 the game out, decide that this product was commercially viable?
  
  Then I noticed something. Amid the typos and spelling mistakes on the Stellar Stone website, I 
 spotted a reference to their non expensive development teams in Russia. This is a strange boast 
 from a company that claims to cut development expenses 3-5 times comparing to cost of local European 
 or US [development teams] . This didnt make any sense, until I read a Community Review (the authors 
 name escapes me, sorry) where a fleeting reference to the Russian mafia was made.
  
  This puzzled me. Why would the Russian mafia want to break into videogames, particularly with such 
 a bad game? I showed the Video Review to my dad, explained everything I have just mentioned in 
 the above paragraphs, and mentioned the possible mafia connection. He said it was precisely the 
 sort of scam that the Mob would pull  put out a low-to-bottom-quality product, dress it up in 
 a fancy package (lets face it, the box art is the best aspect of Big Rigs) , and make money by 
 selling it to unsuspecting consumers.
  
  Picture the scene  A suburban mom is out shopping at Wal-Mart for birthday presents for her kid. 
 Shes not a gamer  she doesnt know her Halo from her elbow. She sees the Big Rigs box, thinks 
 Thisll make a great present; Stevie loves truck games! She buys it. Boom. $20 straight into 
 the pockets of Stellar Stone and GameMill  who are both wings of the Russian Mafia.
  
  Doesnt sound terribly far-fetched, does it now?
  
  If Ive been in any way unclear up to this 
 point, allow me to get to the point: Big Rigs is more than just a bad game. Its a cruel, money-sucking 
 scam perpetrated by the Russian Mafia, and if you need another reason not to buy it, just read 
 Alex Navarros reviews of the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWindWaker11
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2004 6:27 am PT
Review:  You guys are all blind to see what the real GOTY will be. This game makes Halo 2 and Half Life 
 2 and Ninja Gaiden look like babies to this beauty of a game. This game could very well be the 
 greatest game ever (yes ever) . ....... Big Rigs will blow you away. I have spent 100 + hours playing 
 this game as it is my favorite game ever, It will awe you with outstanding visuals incredible sound 
 and jaw dropping Gameplay. Check this game out, it is indeed the greatest game EVER. I am very 
 proud with my purchase as it was the best 20 dollars i have ever spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Connery
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 31, 2004 5:13 am PT
Review:  I just had to write a review, I finally got around to playing this game and all I can say is "WHY!!"
 
  
  I'm Just going to write down this: It is the worst game of all time. I've never seen a game that 
 is so awful. When Alex N. Reviewed it, I felt sorry for him because he had to go through the trauma 
 of playing it. I saw this game the other day at Wal-Mart for $4, which in my opinion is a total 
 rip-off, but yet I bought it anyway. 
  
  We know everything in this game is bad, the controls, graphics, gameplay, music, even the sound!
 
  
  It's worth next to nothing. It's a waste of Hard Drive space and a waste of time. Big Rigs: Over 
 The Road Racing, Please Avoid it at all costs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cosmo__Kramer
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2004 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Wow, what a great game. 
  
  The enemy AI is fantastic. That's right, enemy AI. The road, the mountains and even buildings act 
 as AI trying to hinder you in your journey to become the champion of Big Rigs!
  
  The sense of speed you feel is yet to be matched. I sometimes wondered whether I was actually drving 
 a truck! 
  
  AlexN is obviously made a mistake by forgetting to but an extra "0" after the 1. Don't worry Alex, 
 we know now. Big Rigs THPS3
  
  I give this game ***** 5 stars and 10 out of 10. Any lower is laughable.
  
  Buy it, love it, 
 and play it again.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zebesian
Rating: 2.7
Date: Sep 16, 2004 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Big Rigs Over the Road Racing is a masterpiece of comedic gaming. This game features limitless 
 amounts of unintentional humor. Let me count the ways. 1. virtually no physics are in this game. 
 The only physics I see is the ability to stay on the ground, only if you count drivinghill at a 
 90 degree angle as staying on the ground. 2. Also it is Impossible to cross a bridge because you 
 keep falling thrue it. Dont let that discourage you because you can drive right thrue the water 
 to get to the other side. 3. Oh yeah. I forgot. This game also poses no challenge at all. The one 
 other guy that you are racing just sits at the starting point and waits for you to finish. And 
 when you win a complementary message appears that says "Your Winner!". Obviously the people who 
 made this game did not graduate grammer school. Anyway, I had lots of fun with this game. I have 
 never laughed so hard at a game. I think this game is worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilo_rws
Rating: 1.4
Date: Aug 29, 2004 3:11 am PT
Review:  I have never seen a game like this one. I almost pissed my pants laughing with this... uhum... 
 "game". You just gotta see it to understand!
  
  Okay okay... let's get serious. This game should be called "Big Joke: Over And Also Under The Road... 
 Racing???". Not even that... It shouldn't even have a name. It shouldn't even exist!
  
  Big Rigs is broken in every way possible. There are no sound effects, the music is very repetitive 
 and the scenarios are just so horrible... you can drive your truck through everything: houses, 
 lamps, gas stations, bridges... also you can drive out of the scenario. It's just so funny to see 
 how the truck bounces around the screen.
  Not to mention that the AI is broken. And yes, you can drive through it too.
  If Isaac Newton 
 were still alive to see this game, he would have killed himself. There aren't any rules of gravity 
 whatsoever. The truck seems "stuck" to the ground.
  But the best part is when you drive backwards. You can reach lightspeed! If you don't believe check 
 out GameSpot's Videos!
  Surprise! Even the menu has bugs! (I only saw one: one track crashes the game back to the desktop) .
 
  Download the patch and laugh even more! Now the AI truck MOVES! Yeah... slow as hell. And even 
 if it finishes the race first, you win!
  
  I can't think of any other game this bad. Maybe the Battlecruiser series... wait, I said *maybe*.
 
  
  Stay away from this thing (it can't be considered a game) , unless you want to have a good laugh.
 
  
  Stellar Stone: You're Winner.
  
  UPDATE: Big Rigs has won GameSpot's 2004 worst award! Big Rigs... YOU'RE REALLY WINNER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonSlayer2063
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 28, 2004 7:52 pm PT
Review:  
  There are a lot of bad games in this world, and Big Rigs: Over the World Racing is the cream of 
 the crap. Big Rigs: Over the World Racing is so bad... it could kill you!
  
  This is a game, that you should avoid, at all costs. Reasons why? Let me explain.
  
  First 
 off, this is supposed to be a racing game. But... you don't really race anybody. Your opponent stays 
 parked at the finish line, so... you're never going to have to worry about losing, that's for sure. 
 Secondly, why drive over a bridge, when you can just fall under it? Or, drive up a cliff for that 
 matter. Or even leave the gaming world. At least you can come back... not that you would want to 
 anyway.
  
  What about running into objects? Well, you're not going to have to worry about that. You can just 
 drive right through them! Oh yes, I forgot to tell you. NOTHING SLOWS YOU DOWN. At all! So, you 
 could technically be going 100 miles an hour, and, if you drove up a cliff ( I am starting to see 
 why it is called "Over the World" ) , you would go even faster! How's that for realism? Oh yes, 
 when you win a race (And trust me, if you play this game, YOU WILL) it says "You're Winner!" Yes, 
 I are winner. It seems the person who made this game definitely needs to take some language classes, 
 that's for sure.
  
  I could go on... but... you get the picture. Stay away from this game, at all costs. If you play 
 it, it could literally endanger your very way of life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gambone
Rating: 1.2
Date: Aug 25, 2004 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I actually bought this game for $5 from the bargin bin. The GameSpot review does not lie. 
 This game is not a game. It is a case study for how to NOT make a game. I have seen horrible, horrible 
 mods with better production values.
  
  Before I bought this game, of course I read and watched the GameSpot reviews. I figured the music 
 in the video review was something GS made for use on the site for bad, or funny videos. The music 
 sounds like a cross between a circus theme and a really nutty game show, like... say.... Button 
 Mashing on GameSpot.
  
  So, I buy Big Rigs, choose my 'racer' from one of the four totally identical big rigs, choose from 
 one of the five or so tracks (some of which do not work) , and begin 'racing'. Much to my suprize, 
 the music from the video review starts playing, and suddenly, everything begins to make sense. 
 The game is meant to be a joke, and the circus themed/nutty soundtrack playing in the background 
 provides the prefect backdrop
  
  Also make note of the shape of my score bars. That little birde goes out to Stellar Stone, because 
 even $5 is a waste of money on this 'game'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Easy-Target
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 5, 2004 4:07 am PT
Review:  Hmmm... as to why i'm wasting my time reviewing this 'Game' i don't know.
  
  Big Rigs: OTRR is by far the worst game i've ever come near, its soo bad the term Game has been 
 wasted on it. The maps are short lived and foggy, it doesn't even contain any real physics. Since 
 when has it been possible to drive a 5ton truck over a vertical hill :|
  
  Oh don't forget: You're Winner, not that you can loose... this game is so damn easy is unbelievable, 
 after you start you zoom past your opponent. You can even win the race in reverse as 60mph. 
  
  DO NOT BUY THIS GAME.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnubisWolf
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2004 7:02 pm PT
Review:  If you're a fan of Halo, or if "you're winner" this game is for you! This game reminds me of the 
 great times I've had with Donkey Kong, Tony Hawk 2, Pokemon Snap, Grand Theft Auto Vice City, Mario 
 Sunshine, and Need for Speed Underground. I believe there were barrels in Donkey Kong, and I'm 
 sure there's a barrel somewhere in Big Rigs too. Tony Hawk 2 may let you skate in a house. In Big 
 Riggs you just drive THROUGH the house. The people inside do NOT even notice. In Pokemon Snap you 
 are in a cart and take pictures. In Big Riggs you just fly off the picture. So you don't have to 
 worry about some jerk taking your picture. In Grand Theft Auto Vice City the police never stop 
 chasing you. In Big Riggs the cops are invisible so you never know what to expect! In fact... nothing 
 chases you.. not even your one and only competitor in every map. All five.. well only four are playable. 
 That's where Mario Sunshine comes in. Not only is there a sun somewhere in the sky that is not 
 present, but you can actually drive TO THE SUN. I didn't think this was possible either so let 
 out a big breath now. Also five year olds are addicted to Mario Sunshine, and I believe they will 
 be addicted to this simple gameplay. Actually there is only four controls... (back, forward, left, 
 right, fly) . OK so maybe there's five, but its still not THAT much to remember! And do you have 
 the Need for Speed? I know I do, especially when I'm backing up at 60 mph or simply driving underground 
 while crossing a bridge. Wow, I'm shocked too. I thought Diglet or Dugtrio could pull that one 
 out... no wait I'm forgeting Onyx and the armadillo looking creature. That's another Pokemon Snap 
 connection by the way. Now I know what you're thinking... what about Halo? While Halo may have the 
 Warthog... does it have an 18 wheeler sporting 16 wheels? One that has the ability to go so fast 
 that its lights falls behind while moving? Last time I checked the Warthog couldn't break the sound 
 barrier... especially when going up Dante's Peak with Peirce Brosnon. I don't know how to spell 
 his name, but it's the 007 dude. All in all this is the most fun I've had since I watched N'SYNC, 
 Aerosmith, and Britney Spears "perform" at the Half Time show at the Super Bowl a few years back. 
 I would gladly sell my soul for this game. That's where Dungeons and Dragons come in... speaking 
 of D N D I gotta go warm up right now for the regional tournament. Now if you'll excuse me, I'm 
 off to play Big Riggs. I hope I win. Please root for me. I pray to God I're Winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drswank
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 12, 2004 3:43 pm PT
Review:  I'm out to write a review with as much effort and ambition as the developers and publisher took 
 to design and release the game itself. Where does one start with Big Rigs? In the short time it's 
 been out, it's gained some cult notoriety going as far as earning the lowest possible score on 
 Gamespot to churning out one of the catchiest quotes this side of All your base... I'd say it 
 falls in between the creative faux-pas of Ed Wood's Plan 9 From Outer Space and the Garbage Pail 
 Kids Movie. I'd even go further as to say that Big Rigs doesn't even qualify as a game as it's 
 more of a tech demo for a subpar 3D engine. After all, to qualify as a game, it must be interactive 
 and I've seen fly-through demos more interactive than this. Needless to say, I'm going to throw 
 out the usual review formalities and write on my gripes of this game and the companies that designed 
 and published it. 
  
  
  There isn't much of a story to Big Rigs. You're a trucker in a race to deliver cargo to its intended 
 destination while (as the box professes) avoiding the law. There are two catches to this statement. 
 First, there's no sign of any cops. Second, you barely have an opponent. You begin a race at a 
 starting line with another truck, but it doesn't really go anywhere. The result? You guessed it. 
 You win every time. 
  
  The trouble starts right off the bat. You get a generic looking main menu. I went into the options 
 to adjust the settings, since the game defaulted to resolution of 640x480. You can only toggle 
 texture quality between low and normal and the game tops the resolution off at 800x600. I don't 
 know if this happens on all systems, but it seems pretty poor on a GeForce 4ti. You can choose 
 between two game modes, custom and random race. After choosing your game type, you're taken to 
 a truck selection screen. Here you can choose one of four trucks including "Thunder", "Megaone", 
 "Thunderbull", and "Sunrise W12". It really doesn't matter what truck you select, they all drive 
 the same. One amusing characteristic on this is that only two of the trucks have cargo trailers. 
 You then proceed to choosing a level consisting of Devil Passage 1 and 2, Forgotten Road 1, Nightride, 
 and Small Town Road. Even though Nightride has a portrait of a expansive cityscape, it's the same 
 level as the two Devil Passage levels. Forgotten Road 1 looks similar to the first two levels and 
 only offers a drive through a small village for variety. Small Town Road takes you through a town 
 complete with street signs in the middle of the road and mountains that you can drive through. 
 One can honestly say that there are only three levels in this game since three of them are similar 
 in every way save for day/night effects. 
  
  
  After playing the game for a bit, I discovered there was in fact a patch available for the game. 
 Seems like too little too late, but I opted to give the game its just due for the review. After 
 restarting the game, all of the technical problems still existed, but there was hope, my opponent 
 started moving slowly. I proceeded to disregard the race at hand and took in some of the more comical 
 elements of the game, only to reach the finish line just to see the other truck parked there waiting 
 for me to win. 
  
  
  Game play is non existent. I'll go on record by saying this game is a beta test pure and simple. 
 You just don't see a finished product that acts this way. Let's start with collision detection, 
 or lack thereof. You can go through everything in your path including buildings, street signs, 
 your opponent, and even bridges. You heard me right, bridges are there on the road, but you'll 
 just clip right through them and back up the other side of the ditch they go over. Now, I don't 
 talk to myself when I'm alone that much, if at all. But I found myself laughing and exclaiming 
 things at the top of my lungs as I played this. It's beyond ridiculous. As if this isn't comical 
 enough, the game defies even more laws of physics. Your truck never loses speed when traveling 
 off road and can scale the steepest cliffs without a problem. This interesting form of free roaming 
 freedom goes further, as you can travel outside of the level into purgatory and back in as you 
 please. This is easy since your truck can speed up to 85mph in reverse and stop on a dime.
  
  
  The bad doesn't stop at the game play. Environments are boring, repetitive, and downright 
 ugly. Everything is painted with a coat of the blurriest most boring textures seen in a game in 
 years. All of the trucks look generic, and don't even have working brake lights, just floating 
 red orbs on the back end. Speaking of environments (put the level rant here?) The engine also does 
 a horrible job of drawing the road in front of you with a draw distance of about ten feet. You'll 
 also see such environmental anomalies as floating houses, or houses that are sunken into mountains, 
 or street signs in the middle of the road. Heck, your opponent's wheels don't even move when they 
 attempt to drive off. Don't worry about tech support either. The game doesn't have a website, and 
 you'll see a link for the 1.0 patch right above the form to fill out to email tech support. It 
 seems that Stellar Stone didn't deem this game worthy of a site. All gripes aside, I'll end with 
 this, released games  whether they retail for $49 or $9 - should not be like this. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fidothe
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2004 10:14 pm PT
Review:  I have received a copy of this game, and all I have to say is WOW. I was blow away from the very 
 beginning. See I am a cheater, and will do anything it takes to unlock the full game right from 
 the start. This game must have come PREHACKED. Not only was every area unlocked as soon as I launched 
 the game, but someone must have seriously hacked the code, screwed with it, and submitted it to 
 a producer who was willing to take a chance. 
  
  This game can be very intense at times. I even found myself doing such things as, moving forward, 
 backing up and spinning myself so fast that I actually warped into a parallel universe filled with 
 glitchy textures and white blank space. No other game can match the thrill you receive when playing 
 a game of this magnitude.
  
  This game is VERY realistic, don't listen to any other reviewer that says else wise. When I was 
 watching the video review I noticed he was driving THROUGH buildings, what you dont see is, that 
 he is driving through the front door of the buildings and simply exiting out of the back door, 
 you have to look really closely. You may have also seen the part where he goes up mountains without 
 reducing speed and then fling himself into a white death. Ohh look whats the on the top if the 
 mountains? LOOKS LIKE ICE!. The truck simply hits the hills at such a force the ice drives it up 
 the side of the hill without warning. The white part is just a cliff, a cliff that has no bottom, 
 I'm sure you have seen these before. 
  
  All and All this game is a must have, and at only $9.99 its a STEAL!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadcow92
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 25, 2004 10:47 am PT
Review:  Best game ever!
  
  Gameplay
  Man, the genius (yes, obviously it was made by one person) that put together this unique and wonderful 
 game must of had some kind of Learning Disablity! I mean, this is the first game I've seen where 
 every object in the game is non-colidable to the point where even the bridges cause you to fall 
 right through them! Wow, Awsome! The AI truck which is always just 1 opponent never moves from 
 the starting area! Wow, talk about a challenging AI System. When I start developing games I'm going 
 keep this game in mind when I have the urge to make a trucker game. Some areas walls are missing 
 from buildings. How realistic!
  
  Graphics
  Okay, so the graphics are way below sub-par, but Pong was a great game wasn't it?
  
  Sound
 
  No sound, but really, is that what makes a great game?
  
  Value
  Not worth any money. Hell, it isn't really worth downloading off a sharing program! I mean seriously 
 you would just waste precious time waiting to download it. 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt
  
  Please do not buy this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dezbrown
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 22, 2004 10:21 am PT
Review:  My nephew bought this trash and it is a classic! What a horror! I agree with the comments that 
 the selling of this rubbish is a criminal act, fraud at it's worst. It is beyond compare in its' 
 lack of ANY redeeming value whaatsoever. Use the box to store paperclips and you can recoup some 
 of the investment. Even the recyled paper from the box carries more intrinsic value than the coded 
 cr*p on the CD. The Stellar (developer) web site is as hilarious as advertised in some of the posts 
 on Gamespot. Obviously a Russian (mafia?) comapny with no signifiacnt command of the English language. 
 A quote from the web site touting their game making skills states: "We always try to keep fee as 
 low as possible, virtually garantee to our customers that they'll won't found term that will be 
 more suitable for them." AAAARRRRRGGGGGHH!!!! Such tortured prose! Only buy it if your game collection 
 MUST contain the worst came ever made and I have played hundreds dating back to Intellevison and 
 Odyssey. Oh for the days of Pong!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unnamed475
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jan 22, 2004 6:26 am PT
Review:  "You're Winner", any body else feel like this is going to be the next Cats "All Your Base Are Belong 
 to us!" all over. This could very well be the new generation's greatest laughing stalk! Now I know, 
 most of you are most likely wondering why I gave Value a 10, basically because we can constantly 
 make new jokes about this for the rest of our lives. Such as the great Cats "All your base are 
 belong to us" quote, we can make great things out of "You're Winner!" Another thing, this is the 
 only game to date that has gotten a rating worse then God and Generals. Now with this said, I am 
 going to go take a massive crap now, then I am going to come back and play Gods and Generals now, 
 and actually for the first time, thank god that there is a game worse then it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heelflipdarkslide
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2004 3:45 am PT
Review:  As a trucker, I've been disgusted at past efforts to make a game based on my profession. Sega's 
 18 Wheeler Pro Trucker - chronicling the life story of a young boy bent on revenge for his father's 
 death at the hands of a kung-fu master - certainly had a misleading title. I only saw ONE truck 
 in the game, and the driver was certainly not a pro. Infact, it was a toy.
  
  Next came Tony Hawk's Underground. While I did enjoy being able to drive around in a truck, it 
 was pretty small, and only had 4 wheels. Can't complain about a lack of fancy driving though.
 
  
  The only other truck game I'd played before Big Rigs was Monster Truck Madness, and I've never 
 played that.
  
  Now we come to Big Rigs - the best game I've ever played.
  
  I love how the races are always so close. Up until the finish line I'm always worried they're going 
 to catch up. I'm sure it'll happen one day, but I've been lucky so far.
  
  I also love how just like my boss every day, the game declares "You're Winner!". My boss is a nice 
 man.
  
  The truck in this game can do so much cooler stuff than I can do on the road. Driving right up 
 cliffs! It's like that Matrix, except it's a game, and it's not Enter the Matrix.
  
  If you don't buy this game, ou're doing yourself a great disservice. I didn't buy it, I stole it 
 from one of my cargoes, but you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ummagumma
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  I'm speechless at this travesty. Gamespot has made some iffy calls before, but the lambasting it 
 gives Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing is completley off the mark. It is clear from the beginning 
 that the reviewer simply did not fathom the complexities and allegory of this game.
  
  First off, he laments about the lack of goals in the game. He whinges on that there is no cargo 
 to haul, no police chases, not much of anything. What he fails to grasp is the message Big Rig 
 sends in the very futility of attempt. What point is there of hauling cargo that will ultimately 
 be consumed in robotic fashion by an uncaring populace? Criminals incarcerated during a police 
 chase, despite their victim's blood dripping from their hands and a confession pinned to their 
 jacket, are simply set free via the efforts of slick lawyers and the failings of judicial machinations. 
 What is the point of even trying? comes a plaintive cry from Big Rigs. The answer is apparent. 
 There is no point. Time to lay down and die. This comment on society is driven home (or in fact, 
 not driven at all) even further by the computer AI. It doesn't even leave the starting gate. Much 
 like the dreams and aspirations we harbour as youth, reving our engines on a starting line where 
 the crack of the pistol never comes. Meanwhile, those of privledge cruise to easy victory, unconcerned 
 over such mundane things as rent or grocery bills or collideable landscapes. The societal implications 
 here in the game are staggering.
  
  Perhaps the most stunning allegory is the limbo a driver finds themselves in if they venture off 
 the beaten track. Here the game seems to provide an escape hatch for those willing to take a risk 
 and explore the more remote possibilities of life. It also serves as a stark reminder of the ultimate 
 destination we all are headed for. All roads lead to purgatory; where you go from there is anyone's 
 guess.
  
  It's been awhile since a game of such staggering implications has come along, so I suppose it's 
 not surprising it might knock mainstream reviewers for a loop. But if you open your minds to the 
 possibilities, all roads lead to nirvana. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erebus
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 14, 2004 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Our parents' generation witnessed the memorable, heartfelt, and technologically astounding moon 
 landing of 1969. 
  
  Their parents likely recall the horrors and treacherous slaughter of World War II, and the lessons 
 learned thereafter.
  
  Our ancestors spent their days drawing triangles in the sand, seeking to fathom the complexities 
 of mathematics.
  
  We, the children, bare witness to the next evolution of mankind. Indeed, Big Rigs: Over the Road 
 Racing has become, much like disease and poverty, a modern plague. Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing 
 pays homage to truckers across the world, nay, throughout the universe. From the moment one is 
 able to undertake this magnum opus, suicidal tendencies and emotional asphyxiation grip tightly 
 to the player's soul. This powerful feeling subsides only once the infested PC is utterly destroyed, 
 and the victims brain lobotomized until it is devoid of all conscious rationalization. Big Rigs: 
 Over the Road Racing is not just the epitome of all the problems we face in today's society, but 
 it is the cause. Deplorable wars, horrific suffering, cancer, and bargain-bin victims are all the 
 result of Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing's existence. Talent, a word hurled about like an abused 
 hot potato, has been violated by Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing. If it were actually worthy of 
 being identified as a game, it would certainly be the worst ever.
  
  Road closed. Do not enter. Youre winner.
  
  -Erebus
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
