-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bionicle
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/bionicle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 16, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.7
Critic Score: 4.9, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 5.4, 125 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Argonaut Games
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date:     Oct 31, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
All the wonder of the Bionicle universe has been bled dry by a vapid design, an atrocious camera 
 system, and one noteworthy bug. 

  One of the contenders for the title of hottest toy franchise this holiday season is Lego's Bionicle. 
 The line of action figures is reminiscent of Micronauts and Transformers, so it's a certainty that 
 the colorful little robots will end up under a lot of Christmas trees. Lego and Disney have even 
 teamed up to offer  Bionicle: Mask of Light , a straight-to-video animated film that garnered good 
 reviews when it was released in September.  

          Bionicle is hell-bent on showing the action from the worst possible camera angles. How 
 are you supposed to jump to the next forward platform from this point of view, let alone dodge 
 shots from the Lego scorpion?     

  The same kind words can't be offered up for Bionicle the game. Argonaut, a British developer that 
 made its biggest splash in the industry with Starfox for the Super Nintendo way back in 1993, has 
 cranked out a derivative action adventure that's nothing more than an interactive advertisement. 
 All the wonder of the Bionicle universe has been bled dry by a vapid design, an atrocious camera 
 system, and one noteworthy bug. Though the game has obviously been designed for kids, it's hard 
 to imagine even tykes with the briefest attention spans -- and the biggest Bioncle figure collections -- staying 
 interested enough to finish it. This is really saying something when you consider that the game 
 is also incredibly short.  

  For a game and toy franchise aimed at children, the storyline is remarkably convoluted. Lego has 
 concocted a detailed mythology complete with prophecies, evil forces, heroes with the power of 
 demigods, and just about everything else that Joseph Campbell ever studied or wrote about. The 
 setting is the island of Mata Nui, a paradise where robots of the Matoran tribe live under the 
 protection of six colorful guardians -- Tahu, Kopaka, Pohatu, Onua, Lewa, and Gali Nuva -- collectively 
 named the Toa. All of their tropical tranquility is shattered by the arrival of the evil spirit 
 Makuta, who has summoned a swarm of wasplike robots called the Bohrok to devour everything on the 
 island. These creatures are aided by their smarter bug brethren Bohrok-Kal, in addition to corrupted 
 Rahi island creatures, like robotic fish and bulls.  

  Kids presumably understand this stuff better than grown-ups, who are apt to throw their hands up 
 in frustration over all of the Polynesian names. Basically, though, Bionicle is about six good 
 robots fighting bad ones in a slightly surreal take on Hawaii. Gameplay mirrors the simplicity 
 of the story and setting. You may not have ever played a third-person action adventure with robots 
 named after words in Don Ho songs, but this style of game is as familiar as dirt.  

  The only real difference between Bionicle and its thousands of predecessors is the encyclopedic 
 narrative and game mechanics based on the elements. All six of the Toa power their weapon blasts 
 (which, oddly enough, come from bladed weapons like swords and axes that cannot be used in melee 
 combat) by drawing light elemental energy from the island surroundings and dark elemental energy 
 from foes (stamina is restored by the more traditional way of collecting power-ups) . Each Toa is 
 also linked to the elements of fire, ice, water, stone, earth, and air. Tahu, for instance, is 
 the Toa of Fire, and he wields a fiery sword, of course. Gali is the Toa of Water and is good at 
 holding her breath and swimming like Mark Spitz. Kopaka is the Toa of Ice, and he is skilled at 
 snowboarding his way down mountains. And so on, and so forth. You guide each character -- in sequence -- in 
 appropriate areas. So Tahu is your man in the volcanic region of Ta-Wahi, Gali in the pools of 
 Ga-Wahi, and so forth.  

  While these traits do set the game apart from everything else on the shelf, they don't move play 
 beyond action adventure norms. From a behind-the-shoulders perspective, you run around blasting 
 enemies, jumping across chasms, and collecting power-ups. Even something this simple isn't well 
 handled. The camera is obsessed with showing your robotic mug from the front, thus leaving you 
 to fight a lot of offscreen enemies and having you jump to platforms that you can't see. You can 
 rotate the camera with the keyboard or right analog stick on a gamepad, though battles are so fast-paced 
 that the function isn't very useful. The same goes for jumping, as a lot of platforms in the game 
 appear and disappear. Just when you've moved the camera into the right position to attempt a jump, 
 the platform vanishes, disappears beneath lava, etc. On those occasions when you're doing something 
 special, like snowboarding or swimming, the camera wheels about in a way that's almost calculated 
 to induce motion sickness, especially during certain boss battles when enemies whirl around you 
 in a circle.  

  This not only makes you feel like you're not in control of the game, but it almost eliminates the 
 somewhat nifty ability to collect dark elemental energy. Since these blasts come from unseen foes, 
 it can be very difficult to move your shield into a position to repel and then gather the energy 
 for your own uses. Not that this is much of a problem. You don't really need to harvest energy 
 like this, since you can suck it out of the air by pressing a button while standing still. This 
 isn't much help in combat, of course, although areas where the fiercest fighting takes place often 
 have at least one convenient alcove you can duck into for restoring your juice.  

  Even if there were more restrictions on energy collection, Bionicle wouldn't likely be very challenging. 
 The oft-invisible baddies don't put up much of a fight. Auto-aiming ensures that almost every shot 
 finds its way to an enemy, so you can take out opponents by simply tearing around and circle-strafing. 
 If you alternate hitting the shield button and the fire button, you can make it through even the 
 boss battles without breaking a sweat, regardless as to whether or not you can see your adversaries. 
 A few puzzles that involve opening doors and activating machinery help to spice things up, and 
 you can even build some Lego-like creatures at certain points. However, all such conundrums can 
 be easily solved by freeing captive Matorans. Regions are so small that it's difficult to miss 
 these peeping robotic hostages. Platform-jumping is the only serious challenge and that's only 
 because of the horrific camera work.  

  All this makes it a breeze to tear through everything in a single sitting. Some levels -- most notably 
 the second one where you just snowboard down a mountain -- can be zipped through in under five minutes. 
 It's actually possible to save Mata Nui in less time than it takes to watch the Bionicle movie. 
 And when you're done, you're done, as there is no multiplayer mode.  

  Getting that far can be something of a struggle, though. Every time we came to the end of the first 
 level while playing on a Pentium 4 equipped with a Radeon 9800 Pro video card, the game crashed 
 hard, thus resetting the machine. This happened whether the game was saved at this point or not. 
 Tinkering with the video drivers (we tried ATI Catalyst versions 3.7 though 3.9) and adjusting 
 various settings had no effect. Only shifting to an AMD Athlon XP system with a GeForce III Ti 
 500 and the latest Nvidia drivers allowed us to get past this bug. We were able to continue playing 
 on the Radeon machine after moving a save file. Since recent ATI drivers for the Radeon family 
 have been a little shy of stable, it's hard to blame Argonaut for this. But still, Radeon owners 
 beware.  

  Befitting its status as a quickie console port, Bionicle isn't much of a looker, either. Screen 
 resolution maxes out at a grainy 1024x768, and the overall sharpness is equivalent to what you 
 see on PlayStation 2 games, which isn't surprising when you consider that the game was likely designed 
 for that platform. Regions do have a fair bit of character, though mostly because they encompass 
 extremes suited to the different elements. Colors are bright, particularly in the vivid red volcanic 
 and the bright white and blue ice levels. Robot animations are also excellent. All of the Toa scamper 
 about with a mechanical lurch that seems authentic to anyone who's watched enough sci-fi movies 
 to know that's how robots move.  

          At least the agony is diluted with some levels that provide some changes of pace. The ice 
 mission, for instance, is pretty much nothing but a succession of timed snowboarding runs.     
 

  Audio consists of flat special effects and an old-school musical score that evokes memories of 
 console systems like the NES. These bleepy-bloopy tunes are past their best-before date, though 
 they still hold a certain nostalgic charm. There isn't a lot in the way of voice acting, aside 
 from the occasional "Oof!" when a Toa gets hit by an enemy. What is there seems to have been provided 
 by enthusiastic youngsters and beret-wearing adults with a taste for histrionics, so much of the 
 dialogue is read in a style similar to afternoon cartoons like  Pokemon . It's amusing and annoying 
 in turn.  

  When it comes right down to it, Bionicle is more marketing ploy than a game. It's as blatant as 
 a billboard. Argonaut has done a great job for Lego in getting the franchise name front and center, 
 but that's about it. Beyond promoting brand recognition in advance of the busy holiday shopping 
 season, there really aren't any good reasons for this title to exist. And when you consider the 
 many design flaws and the Radeon bug, there are even fewer reasons for you to buy it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: demonspawned
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 25, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  The Bionicle video game was the logical next step for one of Lego's most popular lines of building 
 toys. The Bionicle series of toys has spawned movies, comic books, accessories and apparel, and, 
 of course, numerous Lego toys. Sadly, the cross into the video game industry was a complete disaster. 
 
  
  Not enough can be said about how good the game could have been. For those who are unaware of the 
 storyline, the Bionicle series follows a group of six elemental "Toa," heroes who defend six villages 
 on a large island, and their continuing quest to defeat their enemy, the evil Makuta. The story 
 was well told and illustrated in comic books released throughout 2001-2003. Unfortunately, the 
 game butchers any intelligent story and makes it all one big, ugly, confusing mess. 
  
  For example, the Bionicle comic books told a very compelling storyline about the invasion of a 
 massive swarm of creatures called "Bohrok" on the island. This invasion is the basis of the beginning 
 of the game. The comics and other media make for an intense story as the Bohrok make the entire 
 island a battleground, and the Toa must defend their besieged villages before helping the Matoran 
 construct a mechanical army to fight back, eventually invading the Bohrok's own hives and destroying 
 the queen Bohrok creatures. The storyline would have made a decent RTS game as each Bohrok swarm 
 had different abilities and some were far more intelligent than others. 
  
  The Bionicle game not only fails to follow this well-build story in any way, but it doesn't even 
 explain to you what the hell it's doing, the first half of the game has the player running around 
 fighting giant Lego scorpions and mosquitoes before occasionally coming on a lone Bohrok. One encounter 
 has the player fighting four Bohrok, but the sequence is nowhere near how well it could have been 
 rendered. Not that the player ever gets an idea of what exactly is going on, or what the Bohrok 
 even are. 
  
  Afterwards, the Toa "transform" into upgraded forms and take on the Bohrok-Kal, smarter and more 
 powerful Bohrok. The comics tell another compelling story as the Toa are outsmarted and defeated 
 by the Kal. The Toa are forced to band together to defeat them, using the Kal's own powers and 
 selfish natures against them. This part of the story is also butchered as the player fights and 
 defeats the six all in one sitting in an arbitrary little arena. The Kal are simply repaints of 
 the regular Bohrok, and fighting all of them is exactly the same. It requires no strategy. Very 
 little of the game requires strategy, actually.
  
  For the rest of the game, the player is forced to endure poorly done "levels," half of which involve 
 "surfing" down a large slope made of lava or ice, while others consist of running around and jumping 
 or flying through uninspiring levels with the occasional Lego bug to defeat or simple puzzle to 
 solve. Top it all of with a simple boss to defeat now and then. The game play is repetitive and 
 ridiculously easy. Couple this with the shortness of the levels, and you can literally beat the 
 game in an hour or two. There is no multiplayer feature, so this hour or two of simple game play 
 is all that the game is worth.
  
  Nothing about the game's mechanics is remarkable. Graphics are far behind the times for a 2003 
 game, and sound is a mixture of annoying simple music and poorly done voice acting. The most difficult 
 enemy in the game is the camera, which insists on staying at the most inconvenient angle that gets 
 in the way of game play. A PC controller is a must, since it would take three hands on the keyboard 
 to move, attack, and keep the camera in check. 
  
  The one good thing that can be said about the game is its poorly rendered graphics are animated 
 realistically and tend to do well on high-end machines, but this one nice perk can not make up 
 for the almost complete failure of the game in every other way. Bionicle is a popular line of toys, 
 but this game is the embodiment of wasted potential. Almost nothing good can be said about it. 
 Do not buy this game; it would not even be worth your time if it were free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Wiifan
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  There I was at Target. I needed a new game! Problem was in my pocket at the moment was the small 
 amount of $15. This pretty much imilated the possibilite of me buying a console game. But hey I've 
 played some pretty good $10 P. C. games before! I'm sure I'll find something worth playing at a 
 reasonable price to boot! Walked down the aisle of computer games. Hmmmm not much. Honestly, I 
 didn't feel like playing in Disney Learning Adventure Games. Then I SAW IT! It just seemed to unbelievable 
 to be true! Hands trembling I picked it up. Slapped myself once to make sure I wasn't dreaming 
 I WASN'T! This was Bionicle the game! The toys that I had played so much with, the movies that 
 I had watched over and over and over again! Here it was in video game form Bioncle! Tsk Tsk Tsk 
 What a idiot I am. Bioncle is with out the slighest doubt in my mind one of the worst games I've 
 ever played!
  
  Gameplay: 2
  
  You know how Gameplay is supposed to be the funnest aspect of the game? Well it's not. It's so 
 far from fun that if any called it fun I'd probably go freakin insane. It's basically a platformer. 
 Jump over lava, jump over pits, glide over pits, and yeah that's about all there is to it. Boring 
 . . . . Graphics: 1
  
  This is the worst part of the game. I swear if there is was a 0 option that's what I would give 
 it. Honestly I've seen better graphics in Roller Coaster Tycoon. Which is pretty embarrisng considering 
 that this game came out nearly ten years after it.
  
  Sound: 4
  
  Embarrisngly enough this is the highlight of the game. Although it's not exactly great either. 
 The soundtrack just repeats itself over and over and yep you guessed it over again! Value: 3
  
  If it were up to me I'd give the value a 1. Only I've got to be honest in least the game holds 
 up when your playing it. I don't think I've ever had it crash on me. Although sometimes when I'm 
 jumping the game does tend to pause for some strange reason. Which rewards value a 3!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 1
  
  Well I hate Bioncle now. I have to ask myself why I ever wasted so much 
 money on them. Their pointless now. They just sit in a big box in my room. Like the game they just 
 sit there not delievering even the tiniest resemblence of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shuem
Rating: 2.1
Date: Dec 13, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  Okay I'll be brief. Here are the main problems I see in the game:
  
  -Super simple control. Except for the movement in 4 directions, you have a jump, an attack, and 
 a shield.
  -No variety in attack move. You just keep blowing the same thing from your tool.
  -Functions 
 are not made to be useful. Shield last for such a short time it isn't practical even if you keep 
 smashing the button. Besides, if the enemy fire in streams, the shield is basically useless. I 
 still don't get what triggers the powerful attack move. Well, who cares, it's still pretty lame.
 
  -Your movements are hard to control. You stand a good distance from the lava, and yet can't take 
 a step closer, because if you do, you fall in. The hero obviously don't know about taking smaller 
 steps.
  -Super dumb enemies!! Their attacks are all super close ranged, and they won't advance towards 
 you. You die because you run into them, and they keep on throwing attacks on you.
  -You only have 4 energy bars!! Takes one hit from the enemy to drain one bar!! How weak was that? 
 I bet your hero will just keep on disintegrating.
  -The jump! That jump! You call that a jump?
  -Lots of instant deaths. If you fall into lava, 
 too bad, start over. Don't forget you only have 4 energy bars as well.
  -Your attack blows home in on enemies! And they rarely misses! How cool is that? You just have 
 to keep firing stuff in the approximate direction of the enemy, and you get to tear them apart.
 
  -Oh, the camera control. Totally random and frustrating. I felt the intense urge to puke from 
 dizziness from 10 minutes of gameplay.
  -Lame power-ups! Lightstones are useless unless you want to collect about 100 of them to unlock 
 something. No, don't do it, finding them almost made me puke, though they are usually just sitting 
 out in the middle of your path.
  -What's the point of rescuing Matorans when they're just standing there, freely, in some very safe-looking 
 place? And they're weeping??
  -Stage designs are dull and you can usually see through a section of a stage in a glance.
  
 
  Err... there're a lot more. But I think these are enough to prove that this game is definitely 
 not worth your time, if you don't want intense frustration and boredom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joethehero2
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 30, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm a die-hard-with-a-vengeance fan so I may not be quite the best judge, but this game was TOO 
 **** SHORT! I mean, I spent only an hour playing this game and beat the boss. The replay value 
 is supposed to be in the bounus features in the lightstone unlockables, but they aren't worth the 
 amount of time spent on trying to collect all the lightstones. DULL! DULL! DULL! DULL! DULL! DULL! 
 DULL! DULL! DULL! DULL! DULL! DULL! DULL! DULL! DULL! DULL! DULL! DULL! DULL! DULL! DULL! DULL! 
 DULL! *breaths* FUCK YOU ARGONAUT GAMES! I MEAN IT THIS TIME! DIE HARD FAN OR NOT, THIS GAME SHOULD 
 BE CALLED BIONICLE: THE LAME ! IT COULD BE SENT TO GUINESS FOR SHORTEST GAME IN THE WORLD! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccccgg
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 1, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  As it stands this game is terrible due to the overall lack of effort put in to the production of 
 this game I love the toys but this is total crap and I was so dissapointed in this game becuase 
 the movies are so cool and I expected it to be very similar to them but I was very very very very 
 very very wrong the graphics suck to high hell and all I can say is stupid stupid stupid, STUPID! 
 I am giving this game the lowest possible score it because it sucks so much and it realy is just 
 plain lame I only hope they don't make another one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjj014
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 6, 2005 8:20 am PT
Review:  Bionicle is one of the worst games I have ever played; it's a pure rip-off. The game is totally 
 immature and lame.
  Ok, now that I got all that out I going to write a real review about this game.
  I am not an 
 EA fan, and Bionicle makes me even less of one. The whole plot of the game seams like it is made 
 for a little kid, but set at an adult gaming level. Bionicle reminds me of something like the old 
 power angers movies that I used to watch when I was a little kid, the only thing it is missing 
 to be a total power anger reminder is the big trance forming vehicles :P 
  The characters are lame, the enemies are lame, the weapons are lame, the sound bites, the graphics 
 suck, and the plot of the game are built on a kids comic book. Hope nobody sues me for totally 
 dissn the game :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthywill
Rating: 3.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Bionicle: The Game is like I said could be better the Graphics a pretty good the sound is not the 
 bad but it repeats so much that it gets anoying, the game play I have to say is terrible this game 
 is too short for instance the second level you just snowboard now why couldn't they have made it 
 so you can run around the village also the ads LEGO put out for the PC version are lies you can't 
 play the old toa you just get to play old Tahu and old Kopaka so thats a real bummer. The controls 
 are fairly simple but you use just the right side of the keyboard to play and the camera control 
 is simply horrible like if you need to jump over something the camera rotates so that you can't 
 see what uour jumping over and if you try to rotate the camera just goes back to the same position. 
 If you loose the first part of a level it always repeats the dialogue which can get anoying after 
 awhile all and all Bionicle feels like the developers tried to get it done as fast as possible. 
 Obviously this is just another one of LEGo's ways of selling their toys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZlayerX
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 11, 2005 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This is an outrage! How can they ruin such a wonderful franchise with such a terrible game. The 
 game would be pretty easy accept for the fact that it is almost implayable (is that a word?) because 
 of awful controls! You press a key and it responds a second or two late. Now I'm stuck on Pohatu's 
 level and game is so bad I dont even want to finish it. Diehard Bionicle fans please dont buy this 
 game it will leave sour taste in your mouth. Now Im stuck with a awful game, wasted 20 bucks, and 
 lost about three hours of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizard11
Rating: 2.8
Date: Nov 20, 2004 4:27 am PT
Review:  The game had such promise. My 7 yr old, who finished Shrek2 without much help got stuck right away, 
 not in a tricky puzzle or anything, it's just the UI is so bad you can't control the character 
 for simple things like walking over a bridge. My gosh, in this day and age, come on. I can forgive 
 the weak graphics and sound, it is a kids game after all, I didn't expect the quake engine or anything 
 but this was pathetic. I tried to play for a while just to let him see the game more and I gave 
 up. Don't waste your money. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
