-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bionicle Heroes
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/bionicleheroes/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Occasionally humorous cutscenes.
 some attractive visual elements.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Boring, repetitive gameplay.
 ports nearly all of Lego Star Wars 2's mechanics.
 not much beyond the single-player mode.
 the same music track looped for the vast majority of the game.
 when did invincibility stop being a cheat code?.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 30, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 6.0, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 127 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Traveller's Tales
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 14, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Not even the allure of shiny robots with guns for arms can liven up this mind-numbingly simplistic 
 and repetitive over-the-shoulder shooter. 

  In a perfect world, everyone everywhere will pay due homage to the supremacy of maniacal, gun-toting 
 robots. Unfortunately, this world is not perfect. Bionicle Heroes, Traveller's Tales' latest game 
 featuring the Lego license, does not do justice to its premise. In fact, Traveller's Tales seems 
 to have given Bionicle Heroes no thought at all. The game's core mechanics closely mimic, if not 
 straight up replicate, those found in the company's recent Lego Star Wars hits. Less-than-innovative 
 mechanics not withstanding, the mind-numbingly simplistic and repetitive gameplay, as well as a 
 dearth of worthwhile added content, means you'll have experienced everything this game has to offer 
 by the end of the first stage.  

          Bionicle Heroes skips right past button masher, straight to button holder.     

  Playing 
 out over the course of several books, comics, and movies, the Bionicle Lego story enjoys an ever-growing 
 library of source material. And if you're familiar with the lore, you'll know that Bionicle Heroes 
 mostly follows the Bionicle Legends story arc. However, if the Bionicle name is new to you, you'll 
 have the stage set by a brief narration at the beginning of the game. And that's about it. Because 
 the only other "voice talent" you'll hear throughout the rest of the game is a few grunts from 
 the menacing yet simple-minded enemy Piraka in cutscenes, you'll be left to infer what exactly 
 is going on. So here's the gist. You arrive on the island of Voya Nui in an elongated tube, where 
 some weird little robot kid hooks you up with these masks that give you elemental powers. From 
 there, you'll need to enter six element-themed zones -- forest, ice, fire, and so on -- defeat the 
 six evil Piraka, and recover the Mask of Light. There's also some kind of parasitic golden banana 
 peel thrown into the mix, most likely for good measure.  

  How you interact with Bionicle Heroes is nearly identical to Traveller's Tales' other Lego series, 
 Lego Star Wars. You'll run around a linear environment, exploding Lego pieces and enemies into 
 a burst of smaller Lego pieces of varying point totals. These totals range from 10 to 250, which 
 you'll then be able to spend on upgrades and unlockables in the cantina, err, Matoran Enclave. 
 You'll find even more of these Lego pieces with the help of each character's individual elemental 
 power, which looks exactly like the Force and behaves similarly to constructing in LSW. Along the 
 way, you'll also collect gold and silver Toa canisters, with some being inaccessible until you 
 go back through the level after you've upgraded your robot. By finding enough of these canisters, 
 as well as passing zones and bashing bosses, you'll be able to visit a trophy room, where you can 
 read up on gaps in the story. But by the time you've aggregated enough tidbits of information for 
 the story to become semicoherent, you'll probably be past caring and will wish that you'd just 
 read the books.  

  Aside from the plot holes, the major problem with Bionicle Heroes is its dull, repetitive gameplay. 
 Heroes is so dull precisely because of the game's core feature. Hero mode activates once you've 
 picked up a certain number of Lego pieces. When in hero mode, you are completely invincible to 
 all damage, and this invulnerability lasts until you activate a giant golden statue to access the 
 next area of any given level. By being even remotely selective with how you pick up Lego pieces, 
 you'll be invincible a good two-thirds to three-fourths of the game, which means that nearly every 
 situation before a boss battle is utterly trivialized. And on the off chance that you do die, you'll 
 simply lose your currently equipped mask and receive a full bar of health. Replacement masks can 
 be found around every corner, but because they're rarely needed and picking one up switches you 
 to that character, they're more of an escalating annoyance than a life-saving necessity. Also, 
 boss fights are unbearably predictable. You'll face a boss after the first, third, and fourth stages 
 of each zone. In these fights, you'll invariably kill a bunch of minions to max out your hero meter; 
 activate a conveniently located golden statue to do damage to the invincible boss; rinse-wash-repeat 
 until the boss is down to a few hearts of health; then, while the boss is only mostly invincible, 
 circle-strafe and shoot until it keels over. The one exception to this is in a stage where you 
 face off against a boss and hordes of enemies... while you're in hero mode. Imagine, if you will, 
 the consequences of an invincible being and a mostly invincible being coming to blows. It's not 
 as exciting as you might think. If you add in combat that entails simply holding down the strafe 
 and shooting buttons, as well as a shoot-it-until-it's-dead ethos and a brain-dead autotargeting 
 system, you've got a truly mind-numbing, unsatisfying experience.  

  Much like Lego Star Wars, Bionicle Heroes has a quirky sense of humor that occasionally shines 
 through the drudgery. You'll get a glimpse of this in the cutscenes, but most of it will come by 
 way of the unlockable content found in the Piraka Playground. Here you'll find all of the Piraka 
 that have been defeated in the stages, and now that they're no longer harassing the fine folk off 
 Voya Nui island, they're free to build sand castles and engage in other tomfoolery. These scenes 
 are pretty funny the first time or so, but they're rather short and don't hold any lasting appeal. 
 You'll also find three bonus stages, which are two-minute missions to see how many of a certain 
 underling robot you can kill. These aren't particularly enjoyable, but they are a nice way to round 
 out a few of the "kill this many" achievements in the Xbox 360 version. Speaking of achievements, 
 getting the full 1,000 achievement points out of Bionicle Heroes will require two full play-throughs, 
 though you can get about 900 in one go. Aside from that, there is no multiplayer co-op or battle 
 mode. A battle mode would have gone a long way in extending the value here, especially because 
 slugging it out against another player with the six different elemental powers could potentially 
 be pretty neat. What's also missing that might have been worthwhile is a build-your-own-Bionicle 
 mode, playing off the Lego theme.  

          Ask any immortal -- invincibility ain't all it's cracked up to be.     

  The vast majority 
 of the game's budget was clearly funneled into the visual department; thus, the game does look 
 fairly good. The various environments are well detailed, albeit stereotypical in their elemental 
 themes, and fire and other explosion effects look particularly good. The Bionicles themselves animate 
 well and have a shiny robotic luster, but you won't see any kind of damage modeling or other advanced 
 effects. Effort was made to capitalize on the Xbox 360's technical capabilities, by way of high 
 dynamic range bloom lighting, as well as depth of field and motion blur options. Unfortunately, 
 the bloom lighting is often overdone to the point of being an eyesore. The depth and blurring effects 
 also just muddy up the presentation. Luckily, the latter two can be turned off, which you'll probably 
 want to do. You'll also find these effects in the PC version, but they look much cleaner, so the 
 PC version looks the best. For the most part, the game performs well on all systems, even with 
 numerous enemies and explosions onscreen. The frame rate will occasionally drag during some of 
 the latter boss-fight sequences, though. Unfortunately, the musical score here will have you searching 
 for your own self-destruct button. Because you'll be in hero mode for the vast majority of the 
 game, and hero mode has a track that trumps the music of any stage, you'll be listening to the 
 same Indiana Jones-inspired tune looped ad nauseam. However, many of the other arrangements that 
 you'll occasionally hear aren't exactly a pleasant alternative, such as the cacophony produced 
 by a French horn and electric guitar mash-up. Thankfully, you'll be able to turn these, as well 
 as the sound effects, down or off.  

  Bionicle Heroes is without a doubt aimed at kids and is as E10+ as a shooter can get, but even 
 a child will quickly grow bored by the lack of challenge, innovation, and story development in 
 this game. The blatant similarities to the Lego Star Wars series are also troubling because they 
 often leave you with the feeling that you're playing a retextured version of those games. Although 
 the game does have bursts of inspiration in the charm of the cutscenes, these are spread entirely 
 too thin and don't come close to carrying the package or making up for the disappointing gameplay. 
 Those who enjoy the Bionicle storyline will most likely have an easier time looking past this game's 
 flaws, but if you're looking for a fun and engaging game, definitely pass on this one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SuperGamer911
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 5, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed Bionicle Heroes alot when I was 8. Guess what? I'm 11 now. Since I am more aware of good 
 games and bad ones I know how stupid this game really is. The gameplay is so repetitive; all you 
 do is destroy spider things odd robots and ridiculous bosses. The gameplay is so easy that if you 
 tell a 5 year old "Hey kid. Play this." he or she will pwn all of the enemies. The sound is horrible. 
 You keep on hearing the same music over and over again and there is no voice acting (besides grunts) 
 However, the areas are pretty realistic and the character models look good. In short if Traveller's 
 Tales polished this game more, it would have been alot better. (Then again they should have stuck 
 with the Lego Star Wars series.) If you were thinking about buying this, think again. Bionicle 
 Zeroes is only for Bionicle obsessed 8 year olds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingz_killah
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 14, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  this  aaaaa aaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa  
 aaaaa aaaaa aaa aaaa aa aaaa aaa aaa aaaa aaa aaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaa  
 aaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaa  aaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaa aaa aaaa aaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaa aaa 
 aaa aa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa a aaaaa aaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaame sucks!@$#^ha sdjhaksl fhqwe fhaskdjfh wileufh askldjfh wquefh 
 lfhklawehi ljasdhla weuihg lasdjbvlajeh fuilashd awehlgu awkldjh akldhgklh aklsjdfh klqwjhefkl 
 asjdhfkl qjwegf klajsdhf jdh jdj j j j j j j j djhaksdjfhawjkleh fasjkld jas djhafhkasdj jsd ksjd 
 jksd kajshd kjasdhfj asd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrdrx
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 19, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Eidos Interactive, known for its popular and great quality games. But this isn't quiet what i expected. 
 My expectations were something like the commercials ive seen on tv, lots of action, shiny robots 
 and great world details. At the beginning the game starts confusing. third person view a total 
 wreck because the robot you'r playing with is on the left side of the screen zoomed-in. You have 
 no crosshair it automaticly points with his laser eyes at the enemy, what can be confusing many 
 times when your trying to shoot at something, like collecting coins.
  
  The graphics, well the only thing that the graphics are is that the shader is making it so shiny 
 shiny like advanced lighting. Texture isnt really high although you can set it low and high but 
 the difference is not that much.
  
  Gameplay is very good, very smooth nothing wrong about that, but you can't jump so-far ive noticed.
 
  
  Overall, the game nice, but not what you would expect if you would see it on tv for an example.. but 
 if you'r bored and feel like running like a crazy chicken shooting at toys, this game is for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: todorank
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 10, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  Bionicle Heroes is definitely a pretty good game, especially for fans of the series, and is at 
 least an efficient references game, i. e. one can catch up on a heck of a lot of info on the Bionicle 
 Universe. The story is like this: you play as the Toa Inika, one of the newest hero teams in the 
 Bionicle Universe's chronology against the Piraka, a bunch of bandits out to terrorize the island 
 of Voya Nui, and your objective is to save the island by finding the legendary Mask of Light.
 
  
  Gameplay is truly reminiscent of the company' s other franchise - Lego Star Wars in that while 
 you pass levels you have to collect Lego pieces, create things from other pieces in order to progress, 
 and a similar health system. Once you collect enough pieces, you automatically trigger Hero Mode 
 , when you will become gold, invincible, and gain a damage boost to your weapons, and you'll be 
 able to manipulate special gold constructions in order to progress. You'll have 24 levels spread 
 through 6 worlds with 3 purchasable levels to test your skill at defeating numerous enemies in 
 2 minutes, plus after defeating all of the final bosses from the six worlds, you unlock the final 
 level with the final boss. World progression isn't hard to remember: first level: boss; second 
 level: no boss; third level: boss; fourth level: two bosses (not at the same time) . In levels you'll 
 also have to collect silver and gold containers to unlock common enemies for between level viewing 
 and items respectively. For passing levels and defeating enemies for example, you'll also receive 
 awards. In the starting level with the shop, you'll be able to purchase extras for viewing in the 
 so called Piraka Playground (where you'll see all the worlds' final bosses) , hints, and upgrades 
 for your characters.
  
  Music is very nice, sets the mode very well indeed, and is worth listening. Graphics is fairly 
 good, though it could still use some tweaks. Overall a good job has been done with the world effects, 
 after all this is a Lego game, it's not supposed to be Half Life, right?
  
  Overall, Bionicle Heroes is a nice peace of gaming experience, so if you have time for this games' 
 simple pleasures, you should really try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earlsavenger
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 8, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  This game i thought was farley simple, it has about a 10 minut learning curve, so its easy to pick 
 up and just get into it. the achievments will be very simple to unlockfor expert gamers, for every 
 level in the game u beat, its an achevement that adds 20 points to your score. the only anoying 
 part is that like its lego starwars predascesor, it also has one or two achievments that require 
 u to have like 1,000,000 lego peices, but the levels u play during the corse of the main game will 
 give u close to that ( provided you dont spend any at the shop) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToaAndy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  Bionicle Heroes is a shoot'em'up by TT games the deveopers of Lego Star Wars 1 and 2. you start 
 of with the Toa Inika (the heroes) as you run around blowing up diffrent Bohrok, Visorak, and Vahki. 
 you also take on other characters like Axonn and Brutaka and the Piraka (the Villans) . the Gamplay 
 is easy to learn and get use to. You use lego pieces you collected to buy upgrades and other things. 
 You also get masks and other things to look at by finding canisters in the levels. The grahics 
 are like the Xbox360's and the level desings are great. Overall the game rewards are like the first 
 Lego Star Wars but not much playerbal charaicters to have. I would of given this a lower rating 
 but as a fan of Bionicle senes I was 10 or so. So I recurmend this to any fan out there on any 
 concle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koltasXxX
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 22, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  what the hell were u thinking LEGO , by leting such a crapy game in the market. the graphics - 
 the models ar nice but the enviroments lacks details. Repeated enemy models and enviroments makes 
 it a dull waist of time. Sound is crapy u can only here some minor music and dumb, lame noises. 
 The story-line is nice, but it was beter in the lego magazines than in crapy game-engine-based 
 cut scenes. The gmaeplay is the worst. u need 6 buttons to control the whole game, for lil lil 
 kids its ok but from a normal perspective there is nothing what to do in it. U have 5 robots, but 
 1 with the spray gun is enaugh to run through levels with the fire button pressed down. In conclusion 
 a very bad game, eventhough it's for younger players , the makers of the game made a crapy game, 
 most Flash based games have more depth than this CRAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooooolgy13
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Bionicle Heroes has you play Bionic lego characters which is similar to the Lego Star Wars games 
 in that you collect massive amount of small lego parts as you blast and explore your way through 
 the game. It you've ever played with Bionic lego then this game is most likely for you.
  
  One thing to note first is that this is a game that targets younger gamers (10 and up) but older 
 people can still enjoy it. The music most of the time is soft and seems like it has a happy melody 
 during gameplay. Also there's no blood or swearing so the E10+ rating assumes this game is intended 
 for younger people. I still have not fully completed the game but it keeps you busy with tons of 
 levels, upgrades, unlocks and bonus material that will having you playing for 15+ hours. In the 
 sound department, in game music is average, usually changing depending on what is going on. If 
 you're fighting a boss the music is more intense and faster and where you're just exploring it's 
 softer. Weapons actually sound quite well and most of them have a unique sound.
  
  Bionicle Heros has you move through a variety of levels with different environments and levels 
 are for the most part varied with lots of ground to explore. As you progress through the game you 
 will find suit upgrades for your Bionic Hero and each suit has a distince color and weapon. Each 
 suit serves a different purpose in which you will need to switch suits in levels to get to a certain 
 place. The green Bionic suit gives you the ability to jump to high places that you can't get to 
 with any other suit.
  
  Graphics are well done, expecially your Bionicle and enemy Bionicles are nicely detailed and animate 
 like a lego robot shoud. Level design is average and could have been more detiaied.
  
  Overall Bionicle Heros is a worthwhile game, or if you like that kind of third person shooter or 
 if you've played Lego Star Wars and you enjoy collecting hundreds of thousands of lego pieces everywhere 
 you go and anything you shoot. The game has its downfalls but its worth checking out. If you own 
 a console its definatly worth a rental for pretty much anyone who enjoys third person shooters, 
 realistic or not. - Jack Sadza 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
