-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: BioShock
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/bioshock/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Absolutely amazing atmosphere and visual design.
 Lots of character customization options to play around with.
 Great voice cast really sells the storyline.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Suffers from some fairly nasty technical issues on some PCs, up to and including a total lack of in-game audio.
 Lack of death penalty keeps things fun, but also keeps things a little too easy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 22, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.5, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 11,971 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: 2K Boston
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Aug 21, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
In spite of some technical issues, BioShock creates an amazing world that you'll want to explore 
 and a compelling mystery that slowly comes together as you play. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"  
       BioShock Review for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 
 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =              The Good            Absolutely amazing 
 atmosphere and visual design  &nbsp;      Lots of character customization options to play around 
 with  &nbsp;      Great voice cast really sells the storyline.                The Bad          
   Suffers from some fairly nasty technical issues on some PCs, up to and including a total lack 
 of in-game audio  &nbsp;      Lack of death penalty keeps things fun, but also keeps things a little 
 too easy.                      After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?          
      Update:  Widescreen, Bonus Content    Posted: Nov 4, 2008 12:33 pm PT      In December 2007 
  a free update  added true widescreen support to BioShock, along with a new plasmid power, new 
 gene tonics and, on the Xbox 360, an additional 100-point achievement for beating the game on hard 
 difficulty without dying. &nbsp;               

  While on the surface it might look like little more than a very pretty first-person shooter, BioShock 
 is much, much more than that. Sure, the action is fine, but its primary focus is its story, a sci-fi 
 mystery that manages to feel retro and futuristic at the same time, and its characters, who convey 
 most of the story via radio transmissions and audio logs that you're constantly stumbling upon 
 as you wander around. All of it blends together to form a rich, interesting world that sucks you 
 in right away and won't let go until you've figured out what, exactly, is going on in the undersea 
 city of Rapture.  

           Rapture is an amazing city that sits at the bottom of the ocean, but something's gone 
 horribly wrong down there.      

  BioShock opens with a bang, but the overall plot focuses more on making an emotional impact than 
 an explosive one. The year is 1960, and you're flying over the Atlantic Ocean. One mysterious plane 
 crash later, you're floating in the water, apparently the lone survivor, surrounded by the flaming 
 wreckage of the aircraft. But there's a lighthouse on a tiny island just at the edge of your view. 
 Who in their right mind would put a lighthouse this far out? You swim closer and discover a small 
 submersible called a bathysphere waiting to take you underwater. After catching a breathtaking 
 view of what's below, you're sent into the secret underwater city of Rapture. Masterminded by a 
 somewhat megalomaniacal businessman named Andrew Ryan, this city is driven by its own idea of total 
 freedom, with capitalism completely unhindered by governmental meddling and science unhinged from 
 the pesky morals of organized religion. Sounds like the perfect society, right? Well, even before 
 you step out of your bathysphere and into the city, it becomes obvious that everything has gone 
 horribly wrong down here. The city is trashed, and genetic freaks called splicers roam around, 
 attacking anything that gets in front of them. At the heart of the matter is a powerful, corrupting 
 substance called ADAM, which makes all this genetic tinkering possible and allows you to get your 
 first plasmid power, the ability to shoot lightning out of your fingertips.  

  Character customization is a key trait in BioShock. You have a limited but increasable number of 
 spaces in various customization categories, and you can totally reconfigure all of your different 
 plasmids and tonics at will, at no charge, at specific locations in-game. Plasmids are the active, 
 weaponlike genetic enhancement. Many of these are very straightforward. Incinerate lets you burn 
 things and melt ice. Telekinesis lets you use your left hand as if it were Half-Life 2's gravity 
 gun. But others are a little more subversive. Security bullseye is a little ball you can toss at 
 enemies, causing any nearby security cameras, turrets, or sentry bots to point in his direction. 
 Enrage can cause enemies to fight one another. Insect swarm causes your arm to shoot bees at your 
 enemies, which unfortunately is far less cool-looking than it sounds. You can also place decoys, 
 plant swirling wind traps for enemies, and so on. While it's fun to mess around with a lot of the 
 indirect attacks, facing your enemies head-on with the more direct plasmids feels a bit more effective. 

  Tonics are skills that are slotted just like plasmids, but they have passive effects, like sportboost, 
 which increases your movement and melee attack speed, or natural camouflage, which makes you turn 
 invisible if you stand still for a few seconds. So if you want to make your swinging wrench attacks 
 more powerful, you can slot up things like wrench jockey and wrench lurker, which increase your 
 wrench damage on all attacks and when catching opponents off-guard, respectively. Add bloodlust, 
 which gives you some health back every time you club someone with your wrench, and you're a melee 
 master with health and plasmid energy (called EVE) to spare. You can also slot some defensive stuff, 
 like static field, which zaps anyone who touches you with a electric radius effect, and armored 
 shell, which reduces the damage you take from physical attacks. There are more than 50 tonics to 
 collect, giving you plenty of options to play around with.  

           ADAM and EVE combine to let you shoot fire, lightning, ice, wind, bees, and more out of 
 your fingertips.      

  Most of those plasmids and tonics will have to be purchased using the raw ADAM that you collect 
 from harvesting vessels called little sisters. They're little girls with a big needle that they 
 use to collect the sought-after stuff from dead bodies, and they're protected by the baddest enemies 
 in the entire game, hulking armored monsters called big daddies. This is where the game makes you 
 decide to be selfless or selfish. If you harvest the girls, they die, but you get 160 ADAM from 
 them. If you free them and return them to normal, you get only 80 ADAM. There are a limited number 
 of girls to deal with in the entire game, making it very possible that you won't be able to collect 
 every single purchasable plasmid and tonic, so choose wisely. Either route has benefits and consequences, 
 and there are story considerations as well.  

  Before you start thinking this is some kind of role-playing game or something, let's stop right 
 here and say that in addition to all the toys that plasmids and tonics for you to play around with, 
 you're also going to be carrying around some more conventional firepower. Your melee weapon is 
 a wrench, and you quickly collect a pistol and machine gun. Being that this is 1960 filtered through 
 the isolation of an undersea world that has the art deco style of the first half of the century, 
 the weapons aren't nearly as high-tech as the genetic code in your body. The machine gun is your 
 basic tommy gun, and the grenade launcher appears to have been cobbled together from coffee cans 
 and other spare parts. You'll also get a shotgun, a crossbow, and so on. You can also collect different 
 types of ammunition, such as exploding buckshot for your shotgun or missiles for your grenade launcher, 
 and upgrades that increase damage, speed up reloads, and so on. The weapons are functional and 
 the upgrades are pretty good, but the firing action isn't nearly as exciting as a combat-focused 
 first-person shooter would be. The weapons are loud but don't feel especially right, and seeing 
 shotgun blasts not even do 50 percent damage to an unarmored human target (on the default difficulty 
 setting) just feels wrong. But that might also say something about the general lack of enemy variety. 
     "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        BioShock Review for 
 PC - Page 2 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Fred 
 Goldman Responds to Hulks Comments    //               GAMES:     GameSpot     GameFAQs   
   MUSIC:     Last. fm     MP3. com     MOVIES:     Metacritic     Movietome     TV:     TV. com   
                  GameSpot. com                Search                               Mafia II Impressions: 
  The sequel to the cult-classic 2002...               The Sims 3 Hands-On Preview:  We take an 
 exclusive look at the...               UFC 2009 Undisputed Made Me Tap Out:  THQs addictive... 
               Rock Band Unplugged Hands-On Preview:  Harmonix is taking Rock...                
     home        PC      Xbox 360      Wii      PS3      PS2      PSP      DS        community  
     forums      videos      cheats      features      downloads      sports      tech      news 
            Reviews     Previews     Cheats     Answers     New Releases     Top Games     All PC 
 Games     Tech Center          Theme:   Light    Dark            Sign In    Create your account 
    Help    Forgot Password?                                       Add Game       Tag       Print 
       Email       Facebook       Digg                              BioShock Review          

 In spite of some technical issues, BioShock creates an amazing world that you'll want to explore 
 and a compelling mystery that slowly comes together as you play.               The Good        
     Absolutely amazing atmosphere and visual design  &nbsp;      Lots of character customization 
 options to play around with  &nbsp;      Great voice cast really sells the storyline.          
       The Bad            Suffers from some fairly nasty technical issues on some PCs, up to and 
 including a total lack of in-game audio  &nbsp;      Lack of death penalty keeps things fun, but 
 also keeps things a little too easy.                      After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited   
      What's this?               Update:  Widescreen, Bonus Content    Posted: Nov 4, 2008 12:33 
 pm PT      In December 2007  a free update  added true widescreen support to BioShock, along with 
 a new plasmid power, new gene tonics and, on the Xbox 360, an additional 100-point achievement 
 for beating the game on hard difficulty without dying. &nbsp;               

  There are five types of splicers to deal with, and these are your primary enemies. The splicers 
 are humans who have messed around with ADAM too much and have essentially lost their minds. Now 
 they wander around the city like junkies in need of a fix. The only real difference among them 
 is what they're carrying. Leadheads have guns, thugs have blunt objects, nitros toss explosives, 
 Houdini splicers can teleport and shoot fireballs, and spider splicers can crawl on ceilings and 
 toss hooks at you. As you go through the game, they get tougher to kill, but there's no real visual 
 indicator as to why that's so, leading to some of the weapons feeling a bit weak. Headshots simply 
 shift from killing enemies immediately to not killing enemies immediately. This makes smart use 
 of a combination of plasmids and conventional weapons the best tactic, though even those tactics 
 don't involve much. The same one-two punch of shocking enemies to stun them and following up with 
 a whack with the wrench is a perfectly viable tactic throughout the entire game, depending on how 
 you've placed your tonics.  

           Though the story is full of heavy-handed homage to Ayn Rand, you don't need a head full 
 of freshman philosophy to enjoy BioShock.      

  You'll find more important human characters at certain points in the story, and though these are 
 set up like boss fights, these guys are just more powerful and resilient versions of existing splicers. 
 You'll also have to deal with security robots, turrets, and cameras, though these can all be hacked 
 via a neat little hacking minigame to bring them over to your side, allowing for more indirect 
 combat options.  

  Then there's the big daddy, which comes in two configurations. The bouncer has a huge drill arm 
 that is used to, you know, drill into people. The rosie likes to launch explosives in your general 
 direction. Both of them are fairly nasty, because they move quickly and dish out a lot of damage 
 while not taking very much from most of your attacks. They protect the little sisters, who are 
 invulnerable to your attacks and can only be dealt with once their protecting big daddy is dead. 
 The big daddy is hardly unbeatable, though you may die a few times while facing your first few. 
 Death in BioShock is barely even a setback. When you die, you're reconstituted at the nearest vita-chamber 
 and sent on your way with your inventory intact and most of your health.  

  This isn't a reload, so everything is as you left it, even the damage that you've already done 
 to any surviving enemies. So you can wear down a big daddy by just running at it again and again 
 with little or no care for your health. That can get tedious, of course, but having that possibility 
 is a blessing -- and a curse. On one hand, you're free to try out new things, like plasmid and tonic 
 combinations, with no penalty if you equip some bum techniques. On the other, there aren't any 
 real gameplay consequences, so playing with skill isn't rewarded. You could fumble your way through 
 the 15 or 20 hours it'll probably take to properly explore Rapture and still see everything there 
 is to see. This, along with three selectable difficulty settings, leaves you with the impression 
 that the game was made to cater to a wide audience, but the hard difficulty setting doesn't actually 
 impact things like artificial intelligence or force you to play any more skillfully to succeed. 
 The enemies still mostly run at you mindlessly while attacking, occasionally getting into scraps 
 with one another or breaking off to find a healing machine, but they take longer to kill and hurt 
 you more when they hit.  

  While the world of Rapture is rich and filled with interesting little tidbits, the game does a 
 tight job of keeping you on track. Aside from two cases where you must collect a certain amount 
 of specific items in order to proceed, you always know exactly what to do and where to go to do 
 it, thanks to a handy map screen and an onscreen arrow that points you directly at the next objective. 
 These helping hands feel almost a little too helpful, but in the event that you get really stuck, 
 you'll appreciate the additional hint system that very plainly explains what you need to do and 
 where you need to go to move forward.  

  You won't miss a ton of locations by sticking to exactly where the arrow points you, but the story 
 fills out a lot more when you find and listen to as many audio diaries as possible. Hearing various 
 characters talk about the problems leading up to Rapture's current disheveled state really fills 
 in the blanks nicely and should be considered mandatory if you intend to play the game. Hearing 
 the voices of these wide-eyed idealists as their world falls apart makes the whole game feel more 
 human. Playing through without listening to any of these optional audio clips would make the game 
 quiet and, actually, fairly confusing, as you'd be proceeding with no sense of backstory about 
 Andrew Ryan, fish magnate Frank Fontaine, and the bit characters who comment on their increasingly 
 hostile struggle.  

  It certainly helps that the environments you find throughout the game look amazing and practically 
 beg to be explored. For something as potentially dingy as an underwater city, you sure do get a 
 lot of different looks as you move along, from the boiler rooms and workshops of the city's core 
 to the forest that helps keep the entire thing oxygenated. You'll also get a lot of great views 
 of the sea through windows. In addition to a terrific artistic design that ties the visuals together, 
 the game has a very strong technical side, provided you have a machine that's built enough to handle 
 it. Unreal Engine 3 is under the hood, and all the requisite bells and whistles are along for the 
 ride. If there's one thing you need to know about BioShock's graphics, it's that the water looks 
 perfect. As an underwater city that's slowly falling apart, it's no surprise that you'll find plenty 
 of leaks. Whether it's standing water on the floor or sea water rushing in after an explosion, 
 it'll blow you away every time you see it.  

  But BioShock isn't without flaw. The game has been released with a host of technical issues, ranging 
 from a total lack of audio on some machines to issues with the SecuROM online activation, which 
 under normal circumstances is designed to prevent you from activating a retail copy on more than 
 two machines. The game is also available through Steam, though all of the same audio stuttering 
 and other issues that some players are experiencing in the disc-based version carry over to the 
 digital version as well. While it's a sad truth that no game is ever released in a completely bug-free 
 state for 100 percent of its users, these issues appear to be pretty widespread, and if you're 
 at all skittish about waiting for a patch after you've purchased something, you might want to wait 
 until at least one patch is released before buying BioShock. In our experience, we got the game 
 running with some minor audio stuttering on a Windows XP PC, and can't get any audio at all on 
 our Vista test machine. All of this makes the Xbox 360 version's stuttering issues (which seem 
 to only happen on some consoles) pale in comparison.  

  Aside from having different technical problems, the differences between the Xbox 360 and PC versions 
 of BioShock are fairly minor. The mouse and keyboard support works exactly as you'd expect, and 
 using a mouse makes the combat a touch easier, since aiming for the head is usually easier with 
 a mouse than with a gamepad. But if you're after that console-style gamepad experience, BioShock 
 has full support for the wired Xbox 360 controller. If you're at a loss for which version to purchase, 
 it comes down to the quality of your PC. If you're running a high-end DirectX 10 machine, the game 
 looks better on the PC. It also has DirectX 9 support, and even running this way, it's possible 
 for some facets of BioShock, like texture quality, to look sharper than the 360 version if your 
 machine can handle it. But when you factor in the current bug list for each version, or if your 
 PC isn't especially recent, the Xbox 360 version is a safer bet.  

           Electric buck in your shotgun makes the big daddies shimmy and shake.      

  In addition 
 to some nice period music that plays from jukeboxes or record players, you'll get some terrific 
 music that helps set the creepy, uncertain mood. The weapons sound good and loud, and everything 
 else just sounds right. The voice acting, which you'll hear plenty of throughout the game from 
 both living characters and their posthumous audio recordings, really brings the story together 
 and helps give it all an emotional impact that most games lack. You'll also hear splicers mumbling, 
 humming, and singing to themselves as they scavenge the environment, which helps give the game 
 a creepy vibe. The quality and depth of things like this are what set BioShock apart from other 
 games and make it something really special overall.  

  If you're the kind of player who just wants yet another action-packed shooter, BioShock probably 
 isn't for you. Its weak link is its unsatisfying no-skill-required combat, which might aim this 
 one just over the head of the average Halo fan. But if you want to get a little fancy, there's 
 a lot of fun to be had with some of the game's more indirect fighting methods. It builds an amazing 
 atmosphere by using terrific graphics and sound to set a creepy mood. But BioShock's real strengths 
 are as a compelling work of interactive fiction, and as a unique ride through a warped world with 
 some great payoff built into its mysterious plot. If that description has you even the least bit 
 interested, you'll definitely find BioShock worth playing -- but you still might want to hold off 
 for a patch or two, just in case.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (736 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SerbWarrior
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 4:23 am PT
Review:  Ah yes, madness, my dear friend, it has been such a long time, it is a pleasure to see you again!
 
  
  ,, They told me i was special, that i would do great things, you know what?
  They were right!''
  -Jack, main character of Bioshock
  
  The easiest way to go insane, is to 
 go underneath the ocean...
  Because what lurks underneath the ocean, is a city, Rapture city...
  And to go to Rapture city...
 
  Is to become insane...
  
  Bioshock, is such, a poetic game...
  If horror and fear, blood and violence, can be presented in style, and in an artistic expression, Bioshock 
 did it!
  The way the story reveals its self, through the monolouges of the NPC's, or the flashbacks of Jack 
 (protagonist) is, amazing...
  One of the best done FPS's ever...
  
  Whats the best thing about Bioshock?
  The gameplay, or maybe the music, or maybe the graphics?
 
  Or the incredibly dark and ****ed up atmosphere and great plot?
  Yep, you guessed it, its the last one...
  Its truly, a rare thing to see a GREAT plot in a game...
 
  And a great plot in an FPS?
  I thought i would die before i saw that day a fps has a great storyline
  The game starts with 
 a plane crash during the 60's over the mid Atlantic...
  The faceless protagonist, Jack, is the only survivor.
  You descend down to the dark depths of Rapture, only 
 to find, that you were better of dead.
  Rapture city, once heaven-turned hell.
  The place was created by a genius/megalomaniac Andrew Ryan, who also discovered genetic modification, 
 and advanced it to such levels that you can comand frost, fire and lightning from your fingertips.
 
  Little did anyone know of the long term effects of ,, splicing'', the term used for people using 
 genetic modification...
  People went insane, and their mind and facial features were destroyed.
  Which led to something 
 of mass murder.
  As you entered Rapture you gain the help of Atlas, a Scot, who wants to help his wife, Moira, and son 
 Patrick, get out of Rapture.
  You will meet many trully nice developed characters, such as Andrew Ryan, Fontaine, Sander Cohen, Peach 
 Wilkins, etc.
  
  
  This is an FPS with, perhaps, a little element of RPG games...
  You have, of course, weapons...
  
  Weapons:
  
  1) Wrench 
  2) Pistol (revolver)
  3) Machine 
 gun (Thompson/Tommy gun)
  4) Shotgun (Customised remmington by the looks of it)
  5) Rocket Launcher
  6) Chemical thrower (Flamethrower)
  7) Crossbow (personal favorite of mine)
 
  (Its so beautiful, seeing an arrow, through the skull of your enemy)
  
  Other usable equipment
  
  Camera 
  (You will use it to do reaserch on your enemyes, by doing 
 so you will gain bonuses when fighting the enemies you researched)
  
  Plasmids:
  They are basicly powers created by genetic engeniring...
  You will collect them, buy them and 
 create them throught the game!
  In other words, you will be playing as a demi-God..
  
  
  I could write a few pages on the graphics, but i wont...
  Il just say...
  THE GRAPHICS ARE ****ING 
 AMAZING
  
  
  The music is just...****Ing incredible...
  The sound is great...
  But the voice acting?
  It is divine....
  Overall, the game is amazing.
  And, it is, for this 
 reason, that i propose, that we take into use the word Bioshock
  to describe something so beautiful, that you cant really describe it!
  So, this game has been Bioshock!
 
  
  Overall ratings:
  Some people dont seem to like my new favorite FPS game, and one of my favorite games ever,**** those 
 people!
  
  Sound/Music/Voice Acting:20/10 (Its Bioshock)
  Graphics:30/10 (its Bioshock)
  Plot/Concept:1000/10 (its Bioshock na kvadrat)
  Weapons:15/10 
 (Its great, could use more though)
  Gameplay:20/10 (its Bioshock)
  
  Overall rating off:**** ME I LOVE THIS GAME/10
  
  
  In the end, we are all insane, some more, others 
 less...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpivo
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 14, 2009 7:42 pm PT
Review:  First I want to say that this game is graphically great, and the designers did a great job creating 
 an atmosphere that is almost perfect. The game's story is very immersive and well thought out although 
 one can beat the game in 1 day of hardcore playing. But if you take your time to explore you'll 
 get an appreciation for the environment, then you will get more out of this game. I have mixed 
 feelings about this game as I believe it could have been way better. there is almost no location 
 damage other than shooting in the head, bad guys don't react to shots from guns as much but the 
 designers did a great job having characters react to plasmids. The only difference between the 
 difficulties is how many times you have to shoot someone and how much damage they do to you. lame 
 in my opinion as this just makes you run from guys more often rather than reward you for playing 
 at a harder level. And the number one thing that disappoints the most is the ending. WOW how terrible. 
 you end up playing the game for like 15 hours for a 25 second ending that just does not satisfy. 
 How could the designers do so much for the atmosphere but nothing for substance at the end? very 
 disappointed. Also a note about the ending.. If the last guy is so powerful why does he need to 
 send you to kill guys for him. I mean he could have done it himself, and also y do u have to kill 
 the last guy? There is no reason that the two of you are quarreling, the main character should 
 be thankful for being created. y would he want to kill the master, the master wasn't gonna kill 
 him. Just that's what bugs me, the ending. other than that great game. but don't be expecting to 
 be satisfied at all when u finish the game, I wasn't. I felt cheated for wasting my time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 7:40 am PT
Review:  Well for those who follow my reviews know that I really suck at FPS games. But after watching the 
 ingame movies I decided to give it a go and I have to say I am truly amazed with the game.
  
  So the story is about a man whose plane crashes on the ocean and finds himself in the grand 
 underwater city Rapture. You try to find your way through as you find the truth about yourself, 
 the Rapture and the history behind it. 
  
  The visuals are great, the game looks amazing, if you have a mid level pc can run it smoothly. 
 The lighting, the shadows, everything looks solid. 
  
  The sound is awesome, it really makes you nervous and completes the tense atmosphere.
  
  Oh 
 yes the atmosphere. It is truly amazing, the old retro looks of 60's (very much like Fallout I 
 and II) the amazing sound effects, the sound of enemies, all is amazing and you will be scared, 
 feel the tension and will jump with frustration on every corner...
  
  The skill system is also good, you use certain adam and eve injections to have certain abilities 
 to cast lightning or fireballs from your hands, even telekinesis to pull or push certain objects, 
 pull grenades from enemies and hurl it back to them :)
  
  You can take a look at this game if you like games like system shock, Deus ex. It is a good game 
 after all, worth a look I say... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jahjeremy
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 11:33 am PT
Review:  This game has a great atmosphere, which many FPS lack. The city of Rapture is creepy and claustrophobic 
 with an overlay of 1950's era science fiction goofiness. The soundtrack and the audio effects are 
 fantastic, some of the best in an FPS of the last couple years with realistic echo, etc. Ditto 
 for the voice acting, which is very good.
  
  Two of my other favorite FPS games were Deus Ex and System Shock, and both of them also had great 
 atmosphere. Bioshock has this deep feel as well as artful graphics. I think Bioshock may have borrowed 
 from these two a bit, e. g. security cameras, hacking, RPG/FPS hybrid, etc. 
  
  Then there is the combat. Between the guns and their different ammunition types plus the plasmids, 
 there are a huge number of options for taking out the baddies. 
  
  For instance, place a dummy, tag the splicers that show up with anger or security bullseye. Watch 
 them dismember each other and fight the security bots. No weapons required. 
  
  Or someone is throwing grenades at you? Toss them back with telekinesis. 
  
  Setup traps using 
 electro bolts, proximity mines, cyclone trap, etc.
  
  Or just smack them down with your wrench.
  
  There are so many options in combat. It rarely 
 gets boring as you're working through the game (though you'd think it would) and feels very dynamic.
 
  
  One minor complaint is that the variety of enemies isn't very large. All are humanoid, and all 
 the touger ones (e. g. the Big Daddies) look mostly the same. There is enough variety in their tactics 
 and abilities that this isn't a big deal, but it does become noticeable by the end. I suppose it 
 fits with the storyline, but I would have liked to have seen a bit more variety in the bad guys.
 
  
  Overall, this game is a classic. You're missing out if you don't play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickey_mickey48
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I bought a new video card to be able to play the new big games 
  and i bought some games bioshock and crysis was from them i started playing thw two games and i 
 found that bioshock is very very intersting and grows on you very fast
  as i found in it the awesome graphics and the good and new story and the freedom to choose the 
 way you can fight 
  I loved that city under the water and how they created it it was soooooo awesome and the design 
 of the characters and the sounds was great as it makes you sometimes laugh and be afraid in the 
 same time
  i also loved the weapons in this game as there were many good weapons you can carry in the same 
 time 
  and the best thing is the abilities you have (or the plasmids) which 
  you can make by powers you find in the games 
  also the puzzles in this game are so funny and 
 interesting 
  So i found BioShock the best First person shooter game I've ever played or you can say one from 
 the best games i've ever played and in my opinion it's ways better than crysis 
  So never hesitate in buying cuz game like this should be with your collection!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vladex00
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2009 1:54 am PT
Review:  August 17, 2007 - BioShock is Irrational's finest offering to date, as well as the swan song for 
 the Irrational brand in a way, since they recently relinquished their longstanding and well-established 
 studio name for the more corporate, faceless tag of 2K Boston and 2K Australia. BioShock is a first-person 
 shooter set in the fantastically unsettling city of Rapture, a metropolis built under the sea by 
 the megalomaniacal Andrew Ryan. Throughout your lengthy stay, you'll find options for combat as 
 intricate and enjoyable as the story and characters are to interpretation, something that only 
 a handful of games can ever claim to offer.
  
  But to call this game simply a first-person shooter, a game that successfully fuses gameplay and 
 narrative, is really doing it a disservice. This game is a beacon. It's one of those monumental 
 experiences you'll never forget, and the benchmark against which games for years to come will, 
 and indeed must, be measured. This isn't merely an evolution of System Shock 2, but a wake-up call 
 to the industry at large. Play this, and you'll see why you should demand something more from publishers 
 and developers, more than all those derivative sequels forced down our throats year after year 
 with only minor tweaks in their formulas. It's a shining example of how it's possible to bring 
 together all elements of game design and succeed to the wildest degree.
  Things kick off with your plane smacking into the ocean and your character having to take refuge 
 in Rapture to survive. Irrational plays on the conventions of the first-person perspective by thrusting 
 you through experiences that toy with and vastly strengthen that fragile, intangible bond between 
 in-game protagonist and yourself. At times, it forces upon you moments of reflection, which is 
 so important and rare in games, where you contemplate the nature of blindly accepted game conventions, 
 which we can't get into for fear of spoiling things. It lays a relatively straight narrative path 
 for you, but it never feels linear, a result of the gameplay as much as the narrative.
  
  The target in BioShock, Andrew Ryan, is anything but a prototypical villain. He's a man of bottomless 
 ambition who built a city under the sea, obsessed with the idea of what makes a man, what differentiates 
 a man from a slave. He's the Randian hero, a man who holds his own creative vision above all else, 
 and he's Rodion Raskolnikov's exceptional person, someone who can be excused for committing crimes 
 to achieve a goal -- and he knows it. His vision, Rapture, is clearly a colossal failure. The driving 
 force behind the game is your quest to discover why this man's alluring vision of an artistic utopia 
 failed so completely and why you've stumbled upon it. Even though Ryan spits out what seems to 
 resemble totalitarian propaganda, you can't help but sympathize with him. He has alluring ideas, 
 speaks them with conviction, and comes off as a sympathetic visionary despite his severe eccentricities.
 
  
  As you continue through Rapture, you'll discover it speaks to the nature of what a single-player 
 game is -- why do we choose to play a game that isn't online, where you can't interact with others? 
 Like reading a novel, it's to form your own impressions, to see the same events, hear the same 
 words, and come away with a unique viewpoint. The thematic blending and twining of BioShock's personalities 
 is so powerful, it acts like any good book or movie, assaulting you with its ideas, popping into 
 your thoughts when you least expect it, and broadening your understanding of what a game can achieve. 
 Instead of painting Good and Evil across the foreheads of Rapture's denizens with a neon brush, 
 Irrational gave everyone murky motives, much like the shadowed, soaking environments you're constantly 
 plodding through, or the blurred vision you get after walking under one of Rapture's ubiquitous 
 waterfalls.
  It's the little ideas that pop up from time to time that make this world so believable: the piano 
 plinks that resonate as you browse menu options; the guitars you can actually play randomly scattered 
 around Rapture; the way every room is realistically constructed reflects both the heights to which 
 Rapture managed to climb as well as the decadence and sense of voracious, selfish entitlement that 
 brought it smashing down. You'll hear some of the voice-overs muse, "Why do they wear the masks? 
 Maybe there's a part of them that remembers how they used to be, how they used to look, and they're 
 ashamed." Little bits like that get tossed at you, and you don't necessarily have to absorb them -- they're 
 not essential to plot or anything, but they're instrumental in making BioShock as immersive as 
 it is.
  
  The game is broken up into large sections, each separated by load times. Don't worry; these aren't 
 load times like in Half-Life 2 where the game pauses unexpectedly. Instead, the load times are 
 logically placed and never jarringly interrupt the experience or mar the immersion. Each section 
 comes with its own cast of NPCs who aren't mere stage bosses -- oftentimes you don't even engage 
 them in combat. Instead, you are battling their ideals and their insecurities, grappling with their 
 motivations as much as the splicer minions who so frequently assail you.
  Just because the various versions of the splicers, genetically altered humans, are the standard 
 enemies in the game, they still manage to exhibit as much personality as the rest. They're not 
 zombies; they're totally aware. They're regretful of their condition, yet realize that there's 
 no outlet for them, no opportunity to express themselves or be creative, like an intelligence crippled 
 by hopeless drug addiction. That's true in a metaphorical sense as much as it is in the literal; 
 they're trapped in an underwater city, after all, much like you. It's almost as if BioShock's enemies 
 want you to kill them, to put them out of their misery. Sometimes they seem overly xenophobic and 
 at others whimsical, gallivanting about with an ironic sense of humor.
  
  They're such eerily spirited foes you may even come to pity them. The Big Daddies, for instance, 
 Rapture's lumbering guardians, will wander around stages banging on outlets from where their wards, 
 the Little Sisters, would normally emerge. If you've killed or freed the little girls, as you frequently 
 must, the Big Daddy will invariably knock again and seem genuinely confused over why nobody's coming 
 out as they stomp and groan their way to the next outlet. It's another example of the wonderful 
 details that make Rapture seem so alive.
  Hacking comes into play quite a bit, since through the associated mini-game you're able to control 
 flying bots, turrets, reduce prices at vending machines, and open otherwise inaccessible doors 
 and safes. The mini-game itself requires you to match up sequences of tubes to allow a liquid to 
 flow uninterrupted from one specific point on the screen to another. Various tonics in the game 
 can modify the challenge, and you'll find the system possesses quite a bit of depth. Should you 
 eventually get tired of hacking everything, you can always make auto-hacks through the item invention 
 system or, if you're facing security bots, load up some shotgun shells and blast them to bits. 
 With the PC version, hacking is a more streamlined process since you don't have to move a cursor 
 around with thumbsticks - you just hover over with your cursor.
  Besides hacking and modifying plasmids, there are a few other interesting ways to divert your attention. 
 Embedded later on in the game, you'll find a camera that opens up a whole new system of character 
 ability modifications. Scattered around Rapture are one-time use weapon stations that let you further 
 augment various aspects of each armament. These aren't always out in the open, and often you'll 
 need to consult your map to see which rooms in a stage you've missed to find them all. A nice feature 
 of BioShock is you can revisit previous stages at certain points. Enemies will have respawned, 
 so you can pull more money, Eve and health hypos, and various other items from their bodies while 
 backtracking to uncover whatever rooms you may have passed by.
  
  If you're debating which version to get, the PC version handles better. In part it's because of 
 the greater precision with the mouse and keyboard, but also with how the plasmids and weapons are 
 selected. With the default settings RMB switches between the two, LMB fires, and we preferred the 
 mouse wheel to an the Xbox 360 version's bumper clicks for quickly cycling through. By hitting 
 Shift you can bring up a plasmid and weapon selection screen if you so desire, but the mouse wheel 
 scrolled through fast enough to stay useful. Note that you can't set LMB to fire a weapon and RMB 
 to fire a plasmid; there's only one fire function. We also noticed the option to bind the functions 
 "switch and fire weapon" and "switch and fire plasmid," but when we tested it out these only switched 
 from weapon to plasmid and back again, much like the RMB default function. All weapons and plasmids 
 are also bound to the number and function keys, making it even easier to ensure you always have 
 the ideal attack at the ready.
  
  One thing we were delighted to see is how effective the wrench, the game's only melee weapon, remains 
 throughout the whole experience. Through various tonic power-ups it can even become more powerful 
 than a majority of your firearms. Since you swap plasmid powers and tonics in at out at any of 
 the specific vending machines, it allows you to alter your play style on the fly and utilize the 
 full range of what's available.
  Really the best aspect of BioShock is how well all the disparate elements blend together. Story 
 plays out mostly through voice-overs, allowing you to stay immersed in the action as plot and character 
 is fleshed out. The sound design is simply amazing here, from the laments of splicers and the groans 
 and thumps of Big Daddies to the sickening smacks and cries of combat to the startlingly realistic 
 ambient noises and humorous calls of the vending machines. Even the near-death alert, which pipes 
 up when your character is low on health, is expertly woven into the game's overall soundscape, 
 unlike other games that test your levels of aural tolerance with sharp and distracting beeps. Every 
 character's voice is well acted. Andrew Ryan in particular is a joy to listen to, with enough vocal 
 gravitas to give Stephen Colbert a run for his money.
  
  To really appreciate the sound in this game, and not necessarily the frenzy of combat, but merely 
 the ambience of Rapture, just stop moving your character when he's alone. Now crank the speakers, 
 or headphones. You start to hear the metallic clanks, the otherworldly whispers, piping up at various 
 distances away, impressing upon you the notion that this world doesn't stop at the walls around 
 you. No matter where you are, there's always the water, a trickling undercurrent of audio, reminding 
 you of your precarious position within this crumbling city being crushed on all sides by an indifferent 
 ocean.
  
  The visuals too will constantly amaze, from finely detailed industrial structures to the weapon 
 models, the choices of which areas to light and which to leave in the dark, and plasmid effects. 
 And then there's the water. It's so gorgeous, rippling and gurgling through every one of Rapture's 
 hallways, tumbling from ceilings and, of course, encasing the city itself. You get lots of little 
 details to enjoy as well, like the welts on your hand when you boot up the insect swarm plasmid, 
 the steam jets that hiss from Big Daddies after they've taken damage, fish in tanks and in the 
 ocean that dart away as you approach, and the flickering billboards and tattered posters that remain 
 from Rapture's glory days. The PC version definitely outclasses the Xbox 360, mostly because of 
 the ability to crank the resolution to 1920 x 1200. If you've got a Vista rig with a DX10 card, 
 you can expect some heightened particle effects, crisper real-time shadows, and more dynamic water, 
 but the game looks gorgeous regardless. On our gaming PC running a Core 2 Quad processor with a 
 GeForce 8800 GTX, and 4 GB of RAM, it ran very well, with only a few occasions of seemingly random 
 framerate hitches. We also couldn't find an option to switch between DX10 and DX9 modes; the game 
 just seems to default to what's in your system, unlike Lost Planet.
  
  If there's anything disappointing about BioShock, it's the ending. We found the resolution to be 
 somewhat abrupt for a game in which so many things are colliding and bubbling beneath the surface. 
 Nevertheless, it's no reason to be dissuaded.
  
  Closing Comments
  There is art here, despite what many would say isn't possible with games, from Roger Ebert to game 
 designers like Hideo Kojima. But it's in BioShock -- it's in the gorgeously realized, watery halls 
 of Rapture. It's in a Little Sister's expression of thanks when you choose to save her, or the 
 utter silence if you harvest instead. It's in the way the characters develop, in the testimonials 
 of the recording boxes you pick up along the way. It's in the way the narrative is structured, 
 and the way it blends so seamlessly with the action. Irrational had a clear vision with this game, 
 something pulled off with remarkable precision in every department. They didn't just deliver something 
 that's fun to play, a criterion so often cited as the benchmark of what makes a game worthwhile. 
 BioShock stands as a monolithic example of the convergence of entertaining gameplay and an irresistibly 
 sinister, engrossing storyline that encompasses a host of multifaceted characters. This is an essential 
 gaming experience.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_other1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2009 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Aside from multiplayer capabilities, Bioshock is the best FPS ever created. Hands down. The story 
 line keeps you interested and focused on whats going on and does not confuse you. The modifications 
 you can make to yourself and your weapons change every aspect of combat throughout the entire game. 
 Most FPS s nowadays focus on multiplayer, but the story line always suffers. Sure, multiplayer 
 may add replayability to a game, but I want a multiplayer game, I'll go play a MMORPG. The only 
 downside to this game at all is replayability. Play through this game about 3 times and you pretty 
 much have covered just about everything to do differently from the last. All in all, a revolutionary 
 FPS that takes you directly into the heart of a world gone mad, and thats exactly where I am going 
 to stay. I truely hope that this series will last as long as I hope it does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_luz_10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  
  Graphics/Graphic Design/Art Design - 10+++++++++++++/10
  
  Simply amazing! The world of Rapture is so beautiful but you know when you look around and explore 
 that something so utterly demented and sadistic has severely crippled and perverted what should 
 have been an underwater paradise from everything that is evil. You can tell Rapture imploded on 
 itself and became a breeding ground for horrible and evil things.
  
  Plot - 9/10
  
  The plot really complements the story in every way. Since so much of the game is taking something 
 that is suppose to be pure and corrupting it in every possible way, the story builds off that same 
 concept. 
  
  The story starts off with you crash landing in the middle of the ocean, and as you start to drown 
 you notice a lighthouse within swimming distance so you swim there and take an elevator down into 
 the underwater city of Rapture. Once you get there you start to realize that what was meant to 
 be a paradise has been destroyed and corrupted by a civil war between its residents over genetic 
 materials that give powers called Adam & Eve. You start investigating and to settle the dispute, 
 and slowly you start to realize what is really going on.
  
  Weapons - 9/10
  
  The game has a very large variety of weapons ranging from a Thompson SMG, shotgun, crossbow, grenade 
 launcher, flame thrower, and a few others. 
  
  And now the Plasmids...
  
  You inject yourself with Plasmid powers. There are different plasmids like there are different 
 guns. These Plasmids allow you to shoot lightning out of your hand, set people on fire, freeze 
 them to death, blow them back with sonic force, set booby traps for when they step on them they 
 get sucked into a cyclone, and many more. These plasmids are powered by "Eve". 
  
  Eve is sort of your energy bar or ammo for that matter. "Adam" allows you to buy more upgrades 
 for your body such as defense, combat, and engineering. The Adam and Eve system allows you to purchase 
 genetic upgrades with cash, or find them, or use Eve points. 
  
  This adds an RPG like element to the game. Although you are limited to so many genetic slots (which 
 can be increased by buying more slots) you can always "rewrite your DNA" by finding stations located 
 throughout Rapture. So say you want your body to be able to fry people with electricity simply 
 inject yourself at the station with the Lightning Plasmid and any electricity upgrade for combat 
 or defense and start throwing lightning bolts left and right or simply have an array of Plasmid 
 powers or whatever you choose.
  
  Cons
  
  Death System (or lack of... actually no death penalty to be exact)
  
  You can die in Bioshock 
 but its not like: you died, go to main menu, reload previous save, or in Gears of War have a friend 
 heal you or something that found in almost every other game. When you die in Bioshock you are then 
 reanimated immediately in a chamber located in that area. Now you may think so what its just reloading 
 for you. Well thats the thing you keep the same progress, experience, items gained etc. etc.. You 
 dont lose anything. There is practically no penalty for dying. You lose nothing and are spawned 
 in instantly. So it makes the game pretty easy and using health packs or using cover when attacking 
 enemies, practically useless. Since you dont have a penalty for dying i would actually, when i 
 had a sliver of health would just run up to a splicer (bad guy) and let him kill me just so i could 
 respawn with more health. There are some really creepy parts in Bioshock but since dying is a total 
 joke it really takes away the tension and suspense.
  
  Overall
  
  Bioshock's atmosphere, story, graphic design, and plasmid powers are freaking amazing. I think 
 GOTY was a bit of an overstatement because the guns and firefights feel a bit lackluster but arent 
 bad, but when you cant compare them to the atmosphere, graphic design, etc.. But the lack of death 
 penalty just makes the game way too easy. I mean you are not whatsoever self conscious of staying 
 alive because why should you? you lose nothing. That really takes away most of the tension. And 
 that hurts the ability to fully utilize the games amazing, demented, and creepy atmosphere. But 
 most assuring Bioshock is still a fantastic game, and you should revel in its graphic design and 
 demented beauty.
  
  9/10
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 11:37 am PT
Review:  I briefly mentioned this before somewhere, this is definitely deserving of the game of the year 
 nominations from several websites. Bioshock is not just a first person shooter. It has RPG elements 
 like HP, MP, a 'leveling-up' system, and managing your inventory and currency etc. The story plays 
 out convincingly without resorting to long cut-scenes. The art shines through in recreating an 
 underwater city. The tension, ambience and excellent use of lighting exaggerates the presence of 
 enemies - but it's the soundtrack which really underpins the sense of a high quality gaming experience. 
 If you're blessed with a surround sound setup, this game could give you shivers and goosebumps 
 as you hear hysterical laughter, cries and shouts from all sorts of sweeping locations. The game 
 even gives you a choice which ultimately decides which of the two type of endings you'll get. I 
 don't want to spoil the story but the game gives you the choice to 'harvest' or save the 'little 
 sisters'. This is when the game becomes interesting; you can get abilities such as fire, ice, electricity 
 etc. Harvesting would yield you more 'Adam' which can be used to upgrade yourself. Saving these 
 small children would give you less 'Adam' but you do reap a moral reward. There are some negatives 
 to be said: there isn't that much freedom for an RPG, yet its linearity helps the pacing. One can 
 say the freedom is not within exploration itself but of what you can do in terms of abilities and 
 weapons - a little like Crysis actually. The enemy AI is pretty simplistic and is easy to exploit 
 some of their attack patterns. There are 'fetch mini-quests' which takes you back to previous areas 
 if that is something you don't like. Despite these slight flaws, the game is polished in both presentation 
 and in the player's experience. I found it ultimately fun although some parts do drag on. The ending 
 was pretty easy and the ending cut-scene was very brief for the amount of effort it took to get 
 there. Still, the rewards and enjoyments are to be had from the journey itself, not the destination. 
 I highly recommend this game for anyone who wants to stray from those straight-forward shooting 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidy333
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 4:54 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is one of those games which showed that games can also be a form of art. The 60's style 
 of game is superbly designed. The choice between morality and immorality in the game will leave 
 the player pondering about their decisions. 
  
  Story - The game has got great story with a great plot twist in between. The way the story is narrated 
 itself is amazing within the environment instead of using cut scenes. Although said the game has 
 3 endings, two of them are pretty similar. May be if our gene research progresses enough, we might 
 also descend into a chaos like Rapture did.
  
  Game play - Simple amazing. There are a different type of weapons to use like a normal fps shooter 
 and there are plasmids to add the extra benefit. The plasmids truly changes the way the game is 
 played. Enemy AI is also pretty good and they way they react to different plasmids is very fun 
 to watch. 
  
  Graphics - Superb. One can truly believe the city is built around in 40's. It has got the old art 
 deco style. Character animations are smooth. Environment is gorgeous with all different types - 
 lush green, industrial and tunnel like. Plasmid effects are great fun to watch.
  
  Big Daddies - Big Daddies make Bioshock. As loyal guardians for little sisters these guys make 
 the game what it is. There are two types of them - Rosie and Bouncer and each with their own style 
 of attacking. Making plans to kill these guys can be huge fun.
  
  Overall Bioshock is a great game to play if you are a fan of shooters. Great story can attract 
 people that don't like fps. Perfect pacing with little creeps thrown at times, Bioshock is a must 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codename_halo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 12:10 pm PT
Review:  one of the best first person shooters in a long time comes to life in 1960 in a rather unusual 
 place called "Rapture", an underwater city founded by then business magnate Andrew Ryan for the 
 sake of living in a better world away from religious, economical and political agony of his time, technological 
 breakthroughs thanks to the many scientists brought to Rapture by Ryan led the inhabitants of this 
 secret underwater society to be able to use all sort of bio-technological enhancements for any 
 required needs and purposes, but nothing good lasts forever and soon Rapture will prove to be the 
 utopia that never meant to be...
  ok, as i said above this game is one of the best new-generation FPS's i've seen, the mood and the 
 atmosphere of this place, the Rapture is enough to win your heart, but that's not everything, the 
 story actually is one of the strongest elements of this game, its both complex and twisting and 
 believe it or not it's you that will be played by this game from the very beginning, i won't go 
 any further, you should really be there to understand it!
  aside from the story the gameplay that might be a little hard to handle at first will just make 
 perfect sense and feel to you in no time and by that time believe me the only thing that should 
 worries you is the roar of a Big Daddy, you heard me right!
  so if you need a deep, classic yet perfectly genuine FPS, you have it right here down Rapture! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Booze_messiah
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2009 8:44 am PT
Review:  Okay so first things first you can pick this game up cheap now, and it is definitely worth the 
 reduced price. That being said I would have been pretty ticked if I had paid $60 for this game.
 
  
  The story is actually a big win here and the game play feels like you are almost in the game. Play 
 this game on an HDTV with good sound system to get the best effect, but I thought right from the 
 beginning it was pretty freaky and that keeps it entertaining.
  
  The weapon selection is pretty good and the idea of upgrading them works. You can use plasmids 
 also, which act basically like magic and is even limited to how much "eve" (or MP) you have. I 
 like how you find components throughout the game that let you make ammo and a few other (mostly 
 useless) things. 
  
  Now to the few bad parts. There is a big time lack of enemy variety here. I am counting big daddies 
 and can only think of about 7 different enemies in the whole game and that starts to make things 
 repetitive. Have no fear though because you don't have too much time to get really repetitive, 
 because before you know it the game is over. This is probably the worst thing about the game, it 
 is way too short. 
  
  Overall, if you are looking for an original kind of shooter with some nice story to it, that you 
 can beat in a weekend then give Bioshock a try. (or better yet a rental) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvatarBlue
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Wow..... just completed this game. The first in a long time. The story alone just hooked me and 
 kept me playing. Something other shooters just haven't come close to. 
  
  Encompassing several plot types into one: One against many, mystery and quest - the heart of this 
 game is it's fabulous story. Revealed morsel by tasty morsel, the actual script design encourages 
 you to just play, to the next bit - in true epic tradition. With a plot twist that I didn't see 
 coming. Something that elevates the story to another level. I absolutely lapped up the Art-deco 
 setting. A really well done slant. The whole packs just oozes uniqueness and feels in keeping with 
 the spooking and outlandish settings of the System Shock games. While the 60's type b/w American 
 gangster serials finishes off its comfortable, familiar feel. Together with some amazing dialogue, 
 this comes close to being a modern-day masterpiece in gaming. 
  
  Story aside, the game stands up as a great shooter. Not hardcore, as 
  you may expect from more 
 of the combat oriented titles about. It is still a terrific blast though, containing a well-balanced 
 mixed of enemies that scale with difficulty. (I played on using the hard level and only found the 
 game challenging in certain section of the later levels. Part of the reason why I just kept playing. 
 And playing I did. More than 6 weeks of enthralling entertainment in 1-2 hr chunks every other 
 night.
  
  Designwise, the dynamics of the game are balanced almost to a tee. The combination of weapons and 
 defensive/offensive pasmids (abilities) will allow you to mix your play up how you feel. Shoot and 
 destroy, or hack and take advantage of the defense systems to help you. Do so to any degree you 
 want. Not so much System Shock (II) 's successor, but a worthy take. If only they'd added the true 
 RPG elements of those games. I salivate at what the game could have been.
  
  As for replayability,.... well I don't want to spoil your experience, but there are two ways to 
 play the game - concerning how you interact with the little sisters. I played the good way. I'm 
 going to leave it a few months and then come back to it and play it the other way. I'm left wondering 
 if there was any difference?!
  
  Those would be my only critiques.... not enough RPG elements and not an entirely commited shooter. 
 But these are really insignificant comments. If you are after an amazing (adult) experience (its 
 rated 18) . Get this. It will blow you away.
  
  (Im so glad I waited to finish the game before reviewing. Otherwise, I dont think I could have 
 given it the deserved credit, it deserves.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kro_429
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 9:59 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest, I didn't like Bioshock's gameplay that much. The guns felt clunky, the animations 
 weren't that fantastic in many cases, and the plasmids were extremely limited. However, 2k Games 
 has created a masterpiece. The artistic design of this game is one that few can rival. Graphically, 
 musically, even with the story, the artistic quality is top notch. Even though I disliked the gameplay 
 for the most part, the art was enough to pull me through the game with ease and end up loving it, 
 and that is something I don't think I can say for any other game.
  
  Many points in the game, such as a certain point with pictures, left me thrilled by the audacity 
 of the creators to make such a fantastically creepy and enthralling environment. Again, few other 
 games do it, and because of this bioshock deserves a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funky_Llama
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2009 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is set in the underwater dystopia of Rapture, a city founded on the ideals of objectivism, 
 the philosophy of 20th-century writer Ayn Rand.
  
  Central to the game is the addictive mutagen ADAM, which alters DNA and gives superhuman abilities. 
 Before long, demand outstrips supply, and the consequences of 20,000 drug addicts deprived of their 
 drug of choice are just as cataclysmic as you'd expect - the city is brought to its knees to the 
 extent that by the time the player enters Rapture, the only remaining citizens are the 'splicers', 
 insane addicts roaming the city.
  
  ADAM is an important element of the gameplay: the player can use it to give themself, for example, 
 telekinesis, or the ability to lob fireballs at enemies. This, combined with the game's physics 
 engine, creates some brilliantly kinetic and creative combat whose sheer inventiveness raises it 
 above the level of the average run-and-gun shooter.
  
  The means through which ADAM is gathered forms a moral dilemma; children are mentally conditioned 
 to harvest the chemical from corpses - and they're the only source of ADAM. The player may harvest 
 them for the chemical, but at the cost of their life (or so we're told; thanks to the wonders of 
 censorship, it isn't shown) . It's relatively effective in that killing them is mildly guilt-inducing, 
 but I would have preferred it to be a little less black-and-white; as it is, it's a dichotomy between 
 being an infanticidal maniac and a saint. In addition to their shallowness, these moral choices 
 are also essentially irrelevant; you end up with pretty much the same results, except that if you 
 choose the 'infanticidal maniac' option an irate German neuropsychologist whines at you after you've 
 finished the game, which is hardly the harshest of penalties. Since the gameplay isn't affected 
 in any meaningful sense, the dilemma is essentially superfluous.
  
  To even get to this choice, though, you must confront the aforementioned kids' personal bodyguards, 
 humans in huge atmospheric diving suits armed with either an arm-mounted drill or a rivet gun. 
 While they only attack the player when they are themselves attacked, their initial benignity doesn't 
 mean they go down without a fight - they're the most fearsome adversaries in the game. Their plodding 
 gait when not in combat is misleading - they can easily catch up with the player, and are as powerful 
 as they are intimidating.
  
  The plot, though relatively simple, is excellent, and contains one of the finest twists ever seen 
 in a video game (which I'll avoid spoiling here) . Exposition is handled masterfully: as the player 
 progresses through the lawless remnants of the city, audio recordings can be found of past events. 
 While not vital to the plot, they add to the detail of the back story, creating a more credible 
 environment. Especially well-portrayed is Rapture's founder and leader, Andrew Ryan. As his objectivist 
 utopia crashes down around him, he stubbornly refuses to abandon his ideals by regulating ADAM. 
 The game uses this plot device as a criticism of objectivism, particularly the lassez-faire market 
 it entails.
  
  Visually, the game is highly impressive, with a detailed graphical style that somehow manages to 
 be both vibrant and dark. Angular architecture with stylistic influences of Arc Deco contrast with 
 the murky expanse of the ocean, creating an original style that vididly illustrates Rapture.
  
  The game's music is equally brilliant, with a powerful orchestral score and well-chosen music 
 from the era. The brooding, ominous theme that plays when the player enters Rapture, the Romantic-era 
 piano solo composed by an insane artistic genius, the playing of 'Somewhere Beyond the Sea' from 
 gramophones and jukeboxes - every audio cue is perfectly judged and serves its purpose brilliantly. 
 Together with the top-notch voice acting, they create engaging, atmospheric audio.
  
  Overall, then, and despite some faults, the game is excellent. Engaging, impressive and downright 
 fun, Bioshock is one of the best games made in a long time. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jepsen1977
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 5:40 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is the spiritual descendant of System Shock 2. SS2 was a totally awesome game that really 
 showed how to make a truly scary game. It didn't rely on cheap scares but instead used sound and 
 tension to frighten you. Just like Deus Ex it gave the player the option to use light role-playing 
 elements in creating your character. System Shock 2 did have a few faults like the fact that the 
 game was insanely difficult with weapons breaking just by looking at them and ammo being scarcer 
 than abstinence from a prostitute. So expectations for Bioshock was quite high but could the game 
 live up to those expectations? Let's find out.
  
  The game starts with a plane crash and you swim to a lighthouse and take the elevator down to Rapture. 
 It's an underwater city build by the "crazy" genius Andrew Ryan as a last refuge against the stupidity 
 of our conventional society. The ideology of Rapture is that of objectivism that states that humans 
 must seek their own happiness as the highest goal of life even at the expense of others if it's 
 done as objective self-interest. So Rapture is supposed to be this wonderland for creative successful 
 people but something has gone horribly wrong. You enter the city in the aftermath of this event 
 and must discover what happened. You are quickly contacted by Atlas who then proceeds to give you 
 objectives to drive the narrative forward. I will not spoil the story here but say that those who 
 have played System Shock 2 know pretty much what will happen. Another problem with Bioshock's story 
 is that not much is happening while you are there. You find audio-logs from the people that used 
 to live in Rapture that give a compelling story to what went down but most of the game for you 
 is just moving from A to B to C etc. Even worse is the fact that often you will get a simple objective 
 like walk to the next room and then something will happen that prevents that like the ceiling will 
 collapse, ice have frozen the door, you need to save the trees, and many other contrived game elements 
 to prolong the game and it often feels artificial. But overall the story is decent and will keep 
 you interested enough to finish the game that should take about 15 hours and hence it's a game 
 of good length.
  
  Atmosphere is where the game really shines. The underwater city of Rapture is brilliantly crafted 
 and very moody as a kind of a tribute to the early part of the 20th century. The city is created 
 to be a haven for the rich and beautiful and you will find all manor of amusement like bars and 
 restaurants etc. There are lots of neon signs, art and pretty furniture in Rapture and everywhere 
 you go there are windows to gaze at the wonder of the sea with fish swimming around outside. The 
 graphics help to accentuate the grandeur of Ryan's dream of a better place. Run the game in DX10 
 mode and you will have the best water effects ever created in a game. The graphics might not be 
 as realistic as those seen in Crysis but they help to create the mood better. The dream is crumbling 
 and water pours into Rapture through cracks and other openings and the sea is slowly reclaiming 
 the area. To further create a mood of doom you will see Big Daddies walk around like golems and 
 protecting Little Girls. You will be attacked by Splicers that are Bioshock's version of the zombies 
 from System Shock 2 although they are nowhere near as scary. I simply cannot stress enough how 
 great the atmosphere of Bioshock is. Everything works together to create an immersive feeling that 
 not many games can match. Sound only helps to demonstrate this. The voice acting is for the most 
 part superb. Andrew Ryan sounds like a madman with great dreams that couldn't bare reality. The 
 audio-logs convey the downfall of Rapture and hence work to build up tension as they tell a tragic 
 tale.
  
  Gameplay is a mixed bag in Bioshock. Gone are the RPG elements from SS2. You no longer have stats 
 and your inventory is now invisible so you can't sort it out and decide what to keep and use. You 
 can carry any gun you pick up but the amount of ammo you can carry is limited and the same with 
 the amount of money you can carry. You can get various upgrades called Plasmids and Gene Tonics. 
 These plasmids and tonics can give you various abilities like shoot ice and fire from your hands, 
 bypass cameras, become invisible, make you stronger etc. It's all pretty much standard fare and 
 some that doesn't make much sense like the fact that you can shoot bees at your enemies. The problem 
 is that you pretty much get enough plasmids and tonics to max out everything you want in the game. 
 It's the same with the guns where you get enough ammo and first-aid kits/eve hypos to go medieval 
 on all the enemies of the game. This is made even worse by Vita-chambers that let you revive at 
 no penalty and because there are so many of them they ruin the challenge of the game. The 1.1 patch 
 did give you the option to remove them however. Also I have to mention that if we strip all the 
 fancy graphics away and treat Bioshock as a straight shooter the game isn't that good. You pretty 
 much fight the same enemy over and over again during the entire game. There are a few different 
 types of Splicers but they all look pretty much the same. Then there are the Big Daddies and Elite 
 Big Daddies but due to the Vita-chambers and abundance of healing items they aren't scary in the 
 slightest. In fact Bioshock isn't scary at all. Also the shooting mechanics just seem off to me. 
 It's not lag but your aim always feels a bit off compared to other shooters. Often the graphics 
 get in the way with "blurry effects" and distortion of vision etc. It's done to enhance immersion 
 but it ends up being annoying because the effects prevent you from aiming properly. 
  
  Let me say that Bioshock isn't by any means a bad game. The biggest problem is that the game feels 
 like a "dumbed down" version of System Shock 2. The game is very pretty to look at and the atmosphere 
 is terrific but the gameplay is just subpar compared to the truly great games in the FPS genre. 
 I don't like games that are difficult just for the sake of being difficult but I do like consequences 
 in my games i. e. that my actions matter to the story and game world and that isn't the case with 
 Bioshock. The moral choice you make in the game is purely black or white and the game lacks a soul 
 because of it (if videogames can have a soul that is) . So to finish this review let me say that 
 Bioshock is the kind of game you owe it to yourself to play just to get the great atmosphere and 
 pretty graphics but don't expect a deep storyline or revolutionary gameplay because you won't find 
 it here. It manages to stay afloat rather than sink under its own hype but on the other hand it 
 doesn't surf the high waves of better games like System Shock 2, Deus Ex or Thief.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 5:52 pm PT
Review:  What a day. You are on a flight, crash into the middle of the ocean, and then end up underwater 
 surrounded by a bunch of freaks trying to kill you and people trying to help you by directing you 
 to these vending like machines that give you powers by rewriting your genetic code. You have a 
 typical array of guns, but you also have these massive powers that you can acquire and upgrade 
 as the game goes on. You start out as an awestruck individual just trying to stay alive while helping 
 this mysterious benefactor who promises to help you get out of the place if you will only help 
 him save his family. Through the course of the game you will find that the creator of this underwater 
 utopia gone horribly wrong is at odds with your mysterious helper, and you are stuck in the middle 
 of a war with the two. Follow his the guidance of those trying to help you, but be careful not 
 to lose your humanity in the process. Gear up, splice up, and upgrade your weapons and your body 
 in order to make it through this submerged freakshow. The drawback is that to beat the beast, you 
 must change your own body to become the beast. However, it's a do or die option so grab your gusto 
 and blaze through until you make it out alive...... if you can make it out alive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FernandoDANTE
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is a first-person shooter that would never exist if it weren't for the 1999 classic of 
 the same genre, System Shock 2. For better or for worse, it is now impossible to mention the recent 
 game without mentioning the one that preceded it. One of the main reasons for this is the fact 
 that the people behind Bioshock were also behind SS2. If you've played one game, the similarities 
 between both are blatantly obvious.
  
  Therefore, seeing Bioshock as a "spiritual sequel" to SS2, and taking this game's legacy into consideration, 
 it would be hard to describe one game without comparing it to the other. Hard, not impossible - 
 if it weren't for the fact that Bioshock pulls pretty much the exact same tricks that its spiritual 
 predecessor did many years ago.
  
  Leaving comparisons aside for a little bit, Bioshock tells the story of a man named Jack, whose 
 plane crashes in the middle of the ocean. There, Jack an odd entrance to a gigantic undersea city 
 - Rapture. Throughout the game, you explore many different areas of Rapture, and discover that 
 it was supposed to be something of a dream city, away from the oppressing powers that lived above 
 the surface, controlling people's lives. Unfortunately, this dream of a free city fell to pieces 
 before you got there.
  
  One of the main gameplay aspects comes in the form of the "Little Sisters" and their guardians, 
 the "Big Daddies". Little Sisters are female children who are used to collect and store ADAM, a 
 very powerful substance that, thanks to the greed of certain men, was the cause for the downfall 
 of Rapture. Throughout the game, the player comes across many Little Sisters and their giant bodyguards, 
 the Big Daddies, and the main objective is to kill him, so you can get to the poor child. What 
 you do with said child is up to you: you can either harvest her for ADAM or set her free. Within 
 the storyline, there is one character encouraging you to harvest the Little Sisters, and another 
 one trying to convince you to spare their lives. This "moral choice" is entirely up to the player, 
 and it does affect gameplay and storyline to a certain extent.
  
  The gameplay may seem like standard FPS fare at first, but there many touches that set it apart 
 from most games. One of these touches is the use of "plasmids", which are essentially magic powers 
 the player has access to. The player can switch back and forth between guns and plasmids by clicking 
 the right mouse button, which makes it quite manageable. Therefore, it is rather easy to take advantage 
 of the game's many weapons and powers - for an example, freezing an enemy, then beating his body 
 with a wrench until he shatters; or setting fire to an enemy with a finger-snap, then firing many 
 machine-gun bullets onto him while he runs desperately across the room, trying to extinguish the 
 fire. The many ways to kill your foes in Bioshock makes it extremely fun to move things along. 
 The addition of upgrades to your weapons also makes it feel like there's some actual progress to 
 the character's firepower.
  
  Unfortunately, when the story progress comes into the light, it is impossible not to mention System 
 Shock 2 again. Boshock's narrative isn't just "similar" to that of SS2 - it's basically a ripoff, 
 from the way in which you uncover the backstory through audiologs left by dead people, down to 
 the very plot twist that happens at a certain point. It is not reminiscent of SS2, it is not an 
 homage to SS2: it is a copy-paste method of writing a storyline. Of course, this will only affect 
 people who have played the 1999 classic before, but certain other similarities will affect more 
 people.
  
  One of those similarities is the upgradeable weapons/plasmids system. While in 1999 it was a very 
 nice novelty to the FPS genre, it doesn't feel so relevant in 2007. While it does feel very good 
 to see Jack becoming more and more powerful, your enemies begin to pose less and less of a threat. 
 In the end, common enemies are only slight annoyances in your path to reach the conclusion of the 
 story, and you will just want to quickly deal with them so you can move along in peace.
  
  This problem with the combat brings up one of System Shock 2's greatest aspects: the tension. SS2 
 achieved tension not only through scary sounds: it did so by limiting the player's power. Constantly 
 spawning enemies and limited ammo meant the player had to hang on dearly to whatever weapons and 
 medkits he had. Not only that, but the inventory was limited, which forced some very tough choices 
 regarding what items to carry and which ones to leave behind. Bioshock choses to do the opposite 
 of this. Halfway through the game, it lets you carry all the weapons at once, more plasmids than 
 you actually need, and puts medkits and ammo all over the place. Not only that, but the game has 
 a system where Jack never actually dies - he gets healed at a Vita-Chamber every time his health 
 runs to low, which basically means there is no game-over in Bioshock.
  
  So, on one hand, System Shock 2 made the player feel like he was always on his toes, feeling desperate, 
 clinging on to that last bit of hope. On the other hand, Bioshock makes the player feel like a 
 super-hero before he even reaches the second half of the game, with enough spare power to make 
 him scream, at the top of his lungs "nothing can stop me now!" This, of course, is the absolutely 
 wrong way to create tension within a game. Since it seems that Bioshock was definitely trying to 
 build up tension (which is proved by some definitely scary moments here and there) , it is a shame 
 that it fails on this department. Unfortunately, a tension fail means that the ever-so-important 
 atmosphere is often sacrificed.
  
  Another problem is the so-called moral-choices within the game. Bioshock and SS2 share the same 
 method of backstory-telling (which is, listening to audiologs) , but SS2 actually had a progressing 
 storyline, with a nice beginning/middle/end process, even though so much happened to the place 
 before your character even got there. However, on Bioshock, the beginning and middle of the story 
 seem to have already happened once Jack gets there, and the player only witnesses an ending that 
 was bound to happen anyway - which makes the moral choice of killing or saving Little Sisters seem 
 a bit forced and unnatural. Sure, there are different endings, but they don't feel especially satisfying, 
 or even that much related to Jack's actions within the game, especially because such choices are 
 too black/white, leaving no "gray area", so to speak.
  
  So, while it is easy to criticize Bioshock for its relative lack of creativity and success in certain 
 areas where its spiritual predecessor was triumphant, it is impossible to ignore the fantastic 
 production quality of the game. Bioshock's world is a living and breathing one - and also manages 
 to be a dark and dead world where it's supposed to be. The game looks, sounds, and plays wonderfully. 
 It may not be all that it could have been, but it is still very fun to play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusmartin23
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2009 8:23 pm PT
Review:  The game was quick a painless 19 hours tops from start to finish. The ending felt short and dissapointing 
 but if you listen to every tape the game plame is immersive and you'll be all over the story in 
 no time. Is set on possible scenario for a world. A mad scientist per say took it upong himself 
 to create a free world. Away from all the rules that keep our daily lives safe but joy free. Very 
 worth playing I couldnt play it earlier because i wanted to computer nice enough to enjoy the game 
 graphics to its fullest. NOT A SINGLE CRASH. This game is not a beta like fallout or stalker that 
 needs tons of fixing and restarts and crashes. SMOOTH GAMEPLAY. Nothing but shooting and collecting 
 items. Everything about it is unique. I recommend it. This game is worth purchasing I might even 
 play it for a second time in the future. The ending was short and felt lonely. How hard is it to 
 have multiple endings? A video of at least 10 minutes ad the end so you can enjoy that feeling 
 of completion. Instead I just wanted to reload right away :P. PLAY IT PLAY IT PLAY IT. Cyberpunk 
 all the way. Enjoy. Take care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truemattyz
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2009 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Hi btw if you reading this, i have felt like writing reviews for many years and i am now playing 
 catch up with myself, i think it is safe to say that i play near on every game that comes my way 
 and am indead a bit of an adict when it comes to playing games especialy those of the pc varity.
 
  
  I felt like it was time to review this game as i have felt that this game has set the standards 
 as well as overs that where relised in that year to what fps games are going to be like in the 
 future.
  
  first of all it has a great story and gives me a path to folow (all be it this being in a narative 
 direction) and i have found this to be the most enjoyable method (i. e games that i have enjoyed 
 the most tend to have a great story and a driven motive to complete) i felt inclined to hunt for 
 the tapes, to hear the voices of them lost there, the game really dragged you under the ocean with 
 it and you really felt like you was there. 
  
  this game makes you want to know every corner and secret it holds and that there is what makes 
 a great game and surely will make a great folow up i still read my pc gamer special bioshock edition 
 from time to time just because i find that universe so infrauling.
  
  This game is amazing from any point of view, but from a pc gamers point of view it ticks all the 
 boxes for me. as an fps fanatic i like to shoot things and like to have a steady fps. this games 
 mechanics and adaptivity to the pc engine realy shines threw. and it certanly allows you to shoot 
 things in bucket loads. 
  
  it even allows you to tamper with the differnt ways in which you could shoot or kill the splited 
 ppls of the deep.
  
  i would spend hours chucking different things at them all ,and setting up booby traps to get them 
 all when ive set up my pointless exercise.
  
  but these are the moments we remember and this im sure is why the next instalment will be great 
 and i personally cannot wait.
  
  to end on a good note there are many very good fps to be had out there and this one is definatly 
 worth a go if you have not tried it.
  
  it also won some awards which it deserved and tbh if it wernt competing with cod4 it would have 
 won a few more. also it sounded amzaing.
  
  p. s theres them other games i were on about being ace on the left :P
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornycorn09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 9:00 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is amazing. When i got it a year ago, i couldnt wait to get to my computer at the end 
 of the day and play for a couple hours. The graphics of this game are beautiful, and the story 
 is the best i have seen in a while. Bioshock did not glitch for me at all. The tight corridors 
 in this game give it a closterphobic feeling, and the challenge level was perfect. A year later 
 from when i got it, im still playing it, and i cant wait for the second Bioshock to get here. 
 
  The only thing that stopped me from giving this a perfect 10, is that the beginning was hard. 
 The first Big Daddy fight was a pain in sthe a**, with only a few weapons. Then later on in the 
 game, it got way easier. The graphics, gameplay, and story make bioshock an amazing game to play, 
 and i cant recommend it highly enough to FPS players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirt871
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2009 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is Irrational's finest offering to date, as well as the swan song for the Irrational brand 
 in a way, since they recently relinquished their longstanding and well-established studio name 
 for the more corporate, faceless tag of 2K Boston and 2K Australia. BioShock is a first-person 
 shooter set in the fantastically unsettling city of Rapture, a metropolis built under the sea by 
 the megalomaniacal Andrew Ryan. Throughout your lengthy stay, you'll find options for combat as 
 intricate and enjoyable as the story and characters are to interpretation, something that only 
 a handful of games can ever claim to offer. The target in BioShock, Andrew Ryan, is anything but 
 a prototypical villain. He's a man of bottomless ambition who built a city under the sea, obsessed 
 with the idea of what makes a man, what differentiates a man from a slave. He's the Randian hero, 
 a man who holds his own creative vision above all else, and he's Rodion Raskolnikov's exceptional 
 person, someone who can be excused for committing crimes to achieve a goal -- and he knows it. His 
 vision, Rapture, is clearly a colossal failure. The driving force behind the game is your quest 
 to discover why this man's alluring vision of an artistic utopia failed so completely and why you've 
 stumbled upon it. Even though Ryan spits out what seems to resemble totalitarian propaganda, you 
 can't help but sympathize with him. He has alluring ideas, speaks them with conviction, and comes 
 off as a sympathetic visionary despite his severe eccentricities. All in All I gave Bioshock a 9 
 out of 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VENOM192
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 6:22 pm PT
Review:  The guy's at 2K have some pretty twisted minds like they want you rip open an innocent little girl's 
 head, but the graphic's are a big letdown. Horrors are supposed to be blood, guts and surprising! 
 Scare bit's off you that you didn't even know you had but instead you see a black slug in your 
 hand, hardly scary at all. Although the gameplay is simple but effective, play this at the dead 
 of night and you will think your eyes are deceiving you but your dismissal of the shadow could 
 creep up behind you and prove that your eyes are better than you thought! The story begins as you 
 crash in to the Atlantic ocean and swim to a deserted building in the middle of the sea and travel 
 down to the bottom of the sea and find the revolutionary city of Rapture, you think you are dreaming 
 only to find that your dream has become a nightmare with citizen's that have been overdosed with 
 A. D. A. M. Crafting your own weapons and genetically altering your DNA to assist on your quest to 
 find your father. Bioshock is a must have for gamers who like games like F. E. A. R and Gears of War 
 2. The sequel to this epic game will hopefully deliver the same impact!
  
  Have Fun Gaming
  By Venom & JrStatic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerryatricrejec
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2009 8:18 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is one of those titles that will stay with you for years to come. It's a truly great game. 
 The game involves you as a player more than most titles and because of this you really feel the 
 world of rapture was once a great city.
  
  I loved this game because of the brilliant visual appeal. Very few things look the same. Different 
 areas of the city are usually easily identifiable because the level design is very well constructed.
 
  
  As you progress the journals make things even more involving and intriguing. The developers cleverly 
 noted gamers don't generally like to read while playing (at least FPS gamers that is) so they make 
 all journal entries radio messages. The messages are very well voice acted, and the sounds in the 
 game are stunning.
  
  The weapons and other assorted weaponry gives another dimension to the combat system. You never 
 feel that the combat is old.
  
  Graphics: Very impressive. I played this game a year after the release and the imagery was still 
 brilliant
  
  Sound: Great, really great!
  
  Story: One of the best story driven games out there!
  
  Pros: Millions, too many to mention. 
 One very notable thing is the length of the game. With something that looks this good and plays 
 this well you'd expect it to be relatively short, but the game is very good in terms of play time.
 
  
  Improvements: 
  I would really have preferred rapture to seem a little more alive. People perhaps still living 
 in the city hiding away from the splicers. Rebel groups, that sort of thing.
  
  Cons: While the combat is fantastic and never stale I felt the enemies should have developed a 
 little more. Some different enemies would have been great
  
  One of the greatest titles I've ever played - A must! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:17 am PT
Review:  Year 2009. Finished playing Fallout 3, Dead Space etc. which were great games of 2008.
  
  But there was one game in 2007 & 2008 (PS3 version) which i regret not playing earlier. And that 
 game was Bioshock.
  
  So what is Bioshock? For people like me INITIALLY it was Fallout 3 and Dead Space in first person.
 
  
  Ugh....... was my reaction as soon as i started the game. Already its a fact that Fallout 3 and 
 Dead Space are great but not so replayable games and i get this which is nothing but Dead Space 
 and Fallout 3 in first person.
  
  But little did i know that Bioshock would go on equalize with Half Life 2 as my Favorite First 
 Person Shooter of all time.
  
  So what happened? First i feel its a Boring game then i feel its the Greatest Game. What transition 
 happened?
  
  The Answer is Extremely Simple - BIOSHOCK is unlike any other shooter. Its not overrated like Crysis 
 or tedious like Far Cry 2 or like any other Counter Strike or Half Life game.
  
  Its totally different. For people who have not yet played Bioshock but played Dead Space and Fallout 
 3, i would simply say that Bioshock is their First Person 
 
  
  Yes. What does this mean? Fallout 3 & Dead Space already one of the Best Games of 2008. And Bioshock 
 being better? Yes. Why? Read On.
  
  Story is You are basically Jack.......... well you are a Jackass if you are like me having played 
 this Masterpiece so late and that too after Fallout 3 & Dead Space.
  
  So you are Jack, who travels in a Plane which crashes down in atlantic ocean. After the crash you 
 find a light house which leads to an Underwater CITY...... Whoa? Ever heard this kind of story in 
 a Half Life game or COD? No.... So its different isn't it?
  
  A BIG NO.
  
  There is a phrase that i can coin for Bioshock which i feel most of the Bioshock fans and fanboys (I 
 am now OFFICIALLY a Bioshock Fanboy. So Crysis fanboys beware!!) .
  
  The Phrase "There is more to than meets the eye" perfectly describes Bioshock.
  
  The story 
 of this game is so Damn Amazing. The twists and turns really made me feel so bad........ so bad 
 because i had regarded Dead Space as having the best story.
  
  Anyways now, on to the GAMEPLAY.
  
  Yeah, this is what makes Bioshock VERY DIFFERENT from other 
 "Regular" Shooters.
  
  You have guns which look uber stylish. Hmmm!! You have Chemical Throwers, RPGs etc...... Meh! Every 
 game has that!
  
  You have PLASMIDS?? Pla...... what? was exactly what my Friend who was.... WAS a crysis fanboy (now 
 a Bioshock fanboy) asked.
  
  Plasmids are simply like different powers. But they are not spells and Silly. Each and every thing 
 in this game has a Reason which the Story tells you. You can collect glues, rubber etc and the 
 presentations like the Black & White TV Screens simply make poor Fallout 3 look like a Rip Off.
 
  
  So now you know whats similar to Fallout 3? Bioshock is no RPG. Each and everything you collect 
 has a meaning.
  
  Dead Space? Yes..... same like Dead Space you can MAKE or Invent things for you. You have Power 
 Ups and yes this game is Scary to some extent (less than DS) .
  
  The guns as i said above are uber stylish and the moment you notice the guns you get this gut feeling 
 that this game is SPECIAL. The plasmids are really Fun. You have fire, Ice, Electric shock and 
 many more plasmids.
  
  You have a Multidimensional Inventory. Oh dear! There are too many things in this game. If i go 
 to describe each and everything GS will ban me literally lolz.
  
  But a short summary. You can equip maximum of 6 Plasmids. You have these Combat Tonics, Engg Tonics 
 etc. which give you a Unique Advantage or Power against a Foe or anything.
  
  Mind you, there are not much BOSSES in this game. But the enemies are all Slicers. Mutated Beings 
 which are of various types. Using different plasmids and seeing their effect itself makes this 
 a very Enjoyable and Exciting game.
  
  There is MONEY which you can use to purchase Weapons and Ammo. But There is also this concept of 
 ADAM and EVE which are used to purchase these powers. You get ADAM from Little Sisters which are 
 protected by Big Daddies........ LOL.... If I explain you all these things you won't understand.
 
  
  Okay overall, i have already declared what i feel about Bioshock. But there is something more important 
 i want to say.
  
  For those people who have NOT played this game and played Dead Space or Fallout 3.............. you 
 will be BORED at the starting of the game. I was bored at the starting and was about to delete 
 this game. But i persevered and thank god i completed this game to really experience what was actually 
 an amazing experience.
  
  For such people, i would only say, please have Patience. After Half an Hour, this game becomes 
 really exciting and the story is damn engrossing. If you still don't believe me and dispose this 
 game, i can only say that you have lost one of the Greatest Masterpieces & not realized its true 
 virtues.
  
  BIOSHOCK, is truly the Greatest First Person Shooter after Half Life. It can also easily be classified 
 as One Of The Greatest Games Ever To Be Made.
  
  Bioshock 2.......... I have high hopes from you. Better not be a letdown.
  
  Meanwhile i am 
 back playing Bioshock a Second Time. There are 2 endings (3 actually but 2 Main endings) . One Good 
 and Bad. I had the Bad One. Now i want to have the good one. Yeah forgot to add. Bioshock has a 
 Pretty Good Replay Value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinGnosis
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 11:27 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game with high expectations but was severely let down. Allow me to summarize the 
 problem with BioShock for you:
  
  You arrive at this place that is completely F. U. B. A. R. from scientists and people trying to play 
 god by injecting themselves with various nasty stuff.
  
  And... the first thing that you as a player *must do* to continue the game when you arrive at this 
 F. U. B. A. R. place is to inject yourself with before mentioned stuff....
  
  Well - you know what? Maybe I didn't want to do that? Maybe I'd like to stay human and survive 
 this hell hole as best I can and not become like them? How about that eh?
  
  And so the RPG elements of BioShock are completely broken 5 minutes into the game.... great work...
 
  
  Ahhh - but then you say: "Yeah - but they marketed it as a shooter!"
  
  Well - this is true, but they also marketed it as the "spiritual successor to System Shock". And 
 my friends - System Shock was an "Action-RPG", or and "FPS-RPG" or whatever you want to call it.
 
  
  So let me put it like this:
  
  You want an Action-RPG? No, nein, nicht - this is NOT that.
  
  You want a good FPS? Great - 
 then go play HL2, Crysis or FEAR.
  
  You want something deep and thought provoking? Well - go and read Atlas Shrugged then, there's 
 more stuff on two pages of that book than in the entire BioShock game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to first say that I was able to play this game with a surround sound system on a computer 
 that played the game on maximum settings (well, maximum for Windows XP) without a hitch ever. So 
 I was playing it with the full experience and with the game patch. With that, let the review begin.
 
  
  Let me get the easy things out of the way first. The game looks absolutely amazing. Since most 
 of the characters are 'deformed' humans or Big Daddies, the models end up looking great and have 
 a very unique style that will oftentimes make you cringe. The problem with this is that the few 
 times you actually do meet a normal person, you will find something a little off about them. I'm 
 not sure if it was just the choice of lighting, or maybe the animation style, but something about 
 them sometimes seemed strange. Granted you only get this problem a couple times (the biggest encounter... or 
 I should say the most important encounter... you get with a normal person is actually done nearly 
 flawlessly) . The weapons look great, the effects look great, the lighting choices really set the 
 mood and are appropriate and the envrionments look fantastic. My one true complaint here (which 
 seems to be a complaint very often coming from me from FPS games, with a few exceptions) is the 
 variety in envrions. I understand this is supposed to be an underwater city and therefore you won't 
 necessarily get to enjoy extreme envrionmental differences, but each time you traverse to a new 
 area you will find subtle differences. Overall it looks great, and the difference in signage and 
 decor is generally how the variety is played out, I just hoped for more. Don't worry though, the 
 game definitely is a beauty to behold.
  
  As for the sound, it is also top-notch. The sound effects are very satisfying, the voice acting 
 is absolutely wonderful, and the music ranges from downright eerie to completely calming. This 
 game does a good job of having music that will directly contrast the situation you are in and therefore 
 set a very unique mood. That is not an easy task to accomplish and that is to be commended. A problem 
 I did find though is sound balancing. Even with tweaking with the voice, effect and music controls 
 I found that I could never acquire the proper balance. Either the music would always be far too 
 subtle or the voices would be FAR too quiet, which can be annoying when you are trying to listen 
 to a diary entry mid-combat. This means almost always, that when you are listening to a diary entry, 
 you are standing still in a corner hoping you don't interact with other people so that you can 
 listen to the entry. It could be something about my computer, but I've only had this problem in 
 maybe one other game, and I tried all sorts of tweaking to solve the problem... with no success.
 
  
  The controls, like any PC FPS, are fully customizable, though I'm sure you will find little reason 
 to change the default settings. They are very effective and simple to use. You even have the choice 
 of using a controller if you feel the need (for those of you 360 players that decided to get the 
 PC version because of the lower price) . So controls are not an issue here.
  
  Now let us get into the gameplay itself. It is an FPS. So you run around and shoot things. Granted, 
 every game handles this situation in its own way, but of course this is the basic premise behind 
 this game, as with any FPS. So what sets this game apart from the others? Plasmids. You get these 
 powers that basically allow you to have unique abilities to use in combat. You have your standard 
 guns of course: the shotgun, the pistol, the machinegun, the grenadelauncher... etc. But with the 
 Plasmids, you have the choice of perhaps... luring your enemy into a pool of water then electrocuting 
 them to death... or perhaps spilling some oil and making your enemy walk on top of the oil and then 
 lighting them on fire to burn them alive... or perhaps you want to use a cyclone to force your enemy 
 to fly up into the air and hopefully off a high up ledge to certain death... or maybe you want to 
 catch an enemy's grenade and throw it right back in his face. The possibilities are very numerous, 
 and you will find all sorts of fun ways to destroy the opposition. In fact, after you acquire a 
 decent variety of plasmids (about 25% through the game) , you will find that you probably won't 
 even be using your weapons much, except perhaps to wrap up an extravagant kill. That is the joy 
 of this game. The freedom you have to kill your enemy.
  
  So the combat is absolutely great, but what about the enemies? Honestly, I was a little dissapointed 
 there. You have the standard splicer (grunt) that gets a few upgrades throughout the game, but 
 remains essentially the same. These will slash at you or shoot at you with one of the standard 
 guns. Then you have the spider splicers that climb on walls and ceilings and can surprise you quite 
 a bit. You have teleporting splicers (which are most definitely the most interesting) and then 
 you have the Big Daddies, which are also gradually upgraded throughout the game. I will admit the 
 Big Daddy battles are always fun, but that is mostly it for your variety (you also have security 
 turrets, security rocket launchers, security flamethrowers and flying security bots... all of which 
 are so easy to take down that they aren't worth mentioning) . There are no real bosses (another 
 thing I find lacking in most FPS games) , except for the first Big Daddy battle and the last boss 
 battle (which are both glorious) . The bosses you do fight really don't feel too different from 
 the normal enemies, except they pack a little more punch and have higher health. Still, with the 
 choices you have in wreaking havoc, at least you won't get too bored as a result.
  
  Speaking of combat, throughout the game you will acquire money, parts and Adam. You can spend these 
 on buying medicine/ammo, creating unique ammo types (each gun has 3 ammo types which allow for 
 different ways of taking out enemies) and for buying and upgrading different Plasmids, respectively. 
 You also get these stations throughout the game that allow you to upgrade your weapons. This allows 
 for customization that will keep things fresh. Another last gameplay thing I wanted to mention 
 is hacking. When you get to vending machines, security machines or safes, you can hack into them 
 to save money or get extra things. These hacking sequences are like little timed puzzles which 
 are pretty neat and a nice change from killing things. The only problem is that by the time you 
 get about halfway through the game, you will have so much money and such easy access to hacking 
 tools, that you will almost always do auto-hacks rather than manually doing it.
  
  Everything I mentioned is fine and dandy, but it isn't the best part of the game. The best part 
 is the atmosphere and story. From the moment you start the game, after the plane crash, as you 
 go through the city of Rapture from an underwater capsule for the first time, you will be in awe. 
 The music, the setting, it all just adds up so well together. You will find yourself noticing little 
 details that will just make you appreciate how much work went into making the player immersed into 
 the game.
  
  The story also has it's share of twists and turns. Starting off simply enough, and ending in a 
 way you would never expect (even with figuring out most of the plot twists ahead of time, I'm sure 
 you will still find something or the other shocking by the end) . The story advances pretty slowly 
 though. You start off not knowing a single thing about waht is going on. You will find diary entries 
 lying around that will give you a little insight as to what has been going on, then once you hit 
 the halfway point things will start picking up very quickly. To me it felt like the first half 
 of the game was more about combat experimentation, while the second half was about pulling your 
 through a rollercoaster of a story. The actual advancement through the game is fairly linear, even 
 with full freedom to explore any region you have already visited, but the story has to be one of 
 the best stories I've seen in a game that doesn't require all sorts of epicness (like aliens and 
 large-scale struggles, etc.) in order to be good.
  
  This is just one of those games that most every FPS player will find something to enjoy from. You 
 don't care for story? Ok. Skip the diaries, and just kill things. You into taking it slow and easy? 
 Ok. Take the game one enemy at a time. You have the choice. There are somethings I know I failed 
 to mention about the game here, but it is better that the player find these things out for him/herself.
 
  
  What about replay though? Will you be playing this again? With no multiplayer, you will find that 
 you probably won't play this more than twice, since all 3 endings can be seen from 2 playthroughs. 
 Granted, the game is fairly long (it took me about 30 hours to beat... but I am an explorer) , and 
 is meant to be a single-player experience. In that regards, you will get your money's worth. The 
 good thing is that if you do decide to replay the game, you have the ability to play it in a completely 
 different way... take on bosses with a different weapons set or challenge yourself in other ways. 
 So for what it's worth, you will enjoy this game for the time you play it.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Value: 8/10
  
  OVERALL: 9.0/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrfatthefat
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  It is rare to see shooters take the path that Bioshock has taken. IT is so unique and based on 
 its settings the graphics are great. People who are fans of sandbox shooters may not like the claustrophobic 
 atmosphere presented in Bioshock , but it is required based on the plot of the game. 
  What drew me into Bioshock was its long gameplay time and the way it dre RPG elements. The plasmids 
 definitely seperates Bioshock from any other shooters. Ofcourse in the end you may find yourself 
 repetetively using the same plasmids.
  The game is rich in atmosphere with amazing settings. The city is itself a piece of art. Everyone 
 in Bioshock is an artist including the developers of the game. 
  The feeling of chaos is easily bored into the player with the mad chantings of the splicers and 
 the way the madly come rushing at you. Sometimes the action just sweeps out of control and you 
 are left dead without knowing what hit you. The condition of the splicers just convey out one feeling.. hopelessness.
 
  The weapons are standard but even they look different and they are upgradable. Every concept in 
 the game is brought out in a unique way. 
  The tape recordings and ghosts just bring out story in such a way that you just get immersed in 
 the story and the twist....
  The only things I did not like about the games were the Vita Chamber and the fact that it did not 
 have multiplayer.
  Bioshock is definitely a game that should be in any shooter's collection. The feeling you get when 
 you explore through the city of Rapture is something you can only comprehend once you explore it 
 for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heiziux
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  First of all the game itself.
  
  Atmosphere is great, it works very well with the games storyline. It absolutely sucks you in. Graphics 
 are also very nice. This game looks like it was made based on comic style just like World of Warcraft 
 which is a very successful game.
  
  Items in the game are not only to collect as useless junk but you actually make stuff out of those 
 items. Upgradable weapons add some customization letting you choose what to improve depending on 
 what weapon you like the most.
  
  Adam/Eve powers in the game just add more fun. Using Environment to kill enemies by using powers 
 and customizing those powers is another part of the game that is great.
  
  Killing big daddy's is just plain fun.
  
  This game took great RPG aspects and combined them 
 with FPS making an AMAZING game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furnish
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 4:21 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is a great game, with decent graphics, a great story that matches the environment. Mysterious 
 in every corner of the rapture city. But I should say that the critics have overrated Bioshock, 
 brought the sky down. Critics' Score 9.5/10, This is outrageous, then games like MGS4, GTAIV, Crysis 
 should get 11/10 if you ask me. This is absurd, it is unaesthetic, they needed to compare the game 
 with other game within its genre and others. They can't just state their belief as the authentic 
 score. User's rating should be more valuable than the critics themselves.
  Otherwise, BioShock is a first-person shooter with role-playing game customization and stealth 
 elements, and is similar to System Shock 2. Early indication of the style of gameplay and some 
 of the artificial intelligence (AI) was revealed by a 13-minute video released on September 20, 
 2006. 
  The player takes the role of Jack who aims to fight his way through Rapture, using weapons and 
 plasmids that give him special powers such as telekinesis or the ability to electrocute, incinerate 
 or freeze foes. Some plasmids even unleash an insect swarm on your foes or enrage them. Security 
 cameras and foes can be evaded by stealth; alternatively, security cameras and turrets can be destroyed 
 using weapons or hacked to use them to the player's advantage. Hacking, which is based on the Pipe 
 Dream game concept, can also be used on health dispensers and vending machines to gain extra benefits, 
 and on locks and safes to gain access to the secured contents. 
  The main resources in the game are ADAM, EVE, and money. ADAM is a mutagen, which allows genetic 
 changes. Quantities of ADAM can be used to purchase plasmids, EVE, and other genetic mutations 
 at special "Gatherers Gardens" vending machines throughout the game. ADAM can be obtained in several 
 ways, most prominently the harvesting of "Little Sisters" after defeating their bodyguards, the 
 "Big Daddies," who are large, heavily armored, genetically enhanced humans wearing armored diving 
 suits. EVE acts as fuel for "active plasmids" in a manner similar to magic points in other games, 
 while money allows the purchase of items and ammunition, as well as paying to override security 
 elements, such as bots or turrets. 
  It is here that morality is implemented as an aspect of the gameplay; the player can choose to 
 either rescue the Little Sisters, or harvest their ADAM (resulting in their death) . While both 
 choices have their advantages, this element of conflicting morals has an impact on the storyline, 
 and, among other things, on the difficulty of the game itself. 
  To adapt and advance the character, the player can purchase plasmids, using ADAM. These are grouped 
 under the Combat, Engineering, Active, and Physical technology trees. The "Active" plasmids are 
 abilities that function as alternate weapons; they are powered by EVE, and require activation by 
 the player. The other classes of plasmids, referred to as "Tonics," are passive abilities that 
 work as long as they are selected as equipment ("equipped") .
  Plasmids are versatile, and can be used by the player both in concert with each other and with 
 the environment to create numerous effects. For example, "telekinesis" can be used on all loose 
 objects: the player can catch and redirect grenades, rockets, thrown items, or hold large objects 
 to form impromptu shields, or use those same objects as projectiles. Other types of plasmids have 
 different practical uses; for instance, using an "electro-bolt" on a body of water electrifies 
 not only the water, but also any beings and machines within it. The player is also encouraged to 
 use critical thinking in the use of plasmids; for instance, a player may use "incinerate" to set 
 an enemy on fire, and when the enemy jumps into a body of water to smother the flames, use "electro-bolt" 
 to kill the enemy instantly. An element of choice is present: since not all plasmids can be equipped 
 at once, the player must decide which plasmids to use, and which to place in storage. 
  Most plasmids alter the character's appearance, in keeping with the theme of "sacrificing one's 
 humanity," referenced by Ryan in one of the game's trailers. For instance, the incinerate plasmid 
 causes the character's hand to glow red, take on a charred appearance, and radiate flames from 
 the fingers. However, selecting a weapon will cause these changes to revert to normal, suggesting 
 that any physical changes conferred are temporary. Higher levels of the same plasmid will cause 
 more extreme changes; for example, the highest level of incinerate causes a heavier glow, more 
 severe charring, and more prominent flames. In all, there are over 70 unique plasmids and tonics 
 varieties.
  Via single-use weapon-upgrade kiosks called "Power to the People" machines, the player can customize 
 weapons to hold larger magazines, consume ammunition at a slower rate, or cause more damage. Each 
 weapon has a selection of three different types of ammunition: normal, anti-personnel, and armor-piercing 
 bullets are available for the weapons found early in the game; later weapons such as the crossbow 
 have more diverse types of ammunition There is also a "research camera" in the game that analyzes 
 enemies. After taking enough pictures of any given enemy, the player is granted increased damage, 
 plasmids, and other bonuses when facing that type of enemy in future battles. The quality of the 
 photograph determines the rate at which these advantages are rewarded. 
  The player can also access several types of vending machines: the "U-Invent," which combines retrievable 
 spare parts into ammunition, tools, etc.; "The Circus of Values" vending machine sells everything 
 from cakes to first aid kits to EVE hypos; the "El Ammo Bandito!," a machine that vends both normal 
 and specialty ammunition; and other more specialized machines, such as health stations. Most vending 
 machine varieties can be hacked, allowing the player to buy "hack-only" items, and reducing the 
 cost of the previously available merchandise. Glass-walled "Vita-Chambers" can also be found throughout 
 the game, which the player does not use directly. Instead, should Jack die, his body is reconstituted 
 at the nearest one, retaining all of his possessions, but only a portion of his full health. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willowblades
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This was one of those games that all my friends talked about being the greatest game of last year. 
 I though that they were all full of bull even after looking at all the previews and reading about 
 the game. Finally they convinced me to get it and I did when it first came out. I wasn't running 
 that good of a computer at the time but I met the minimum requirements. Boy was I amazed by the 
 game when I started to play it. I have been waiting for something new and different to play since 
 Halo. I have been waiting for an FPS that allows me to go through the level with a new twist and 
 storyline. I needed something with substance and good game play. After playing the game I wanted 
 to go back and replay it again because I felt that it could be played in a different ways with 
 different upgrades. The spells you get are so fun to use with many different ways to kill you enemies 
 which gave an extra edge to an already fun game. The world of Rapsidy is a crazy, mixed world of 
 insane bad guys and little girls to save or not. All in all I absolutely love this game and play 
 it as often as I can. I cannot wait until the new one comes out to see where the story goes from 
 here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: BioShock is a first-person shooter set in a fantasy city of Rapture, a metropolis built 
 under the sea by the megalomaniacal Andrew Ryan. So to start things off in this game, your plane 
 smacking into the ocean and your character having to take refuge in Rapture to survive. Irrational 
 plays on the conventions of the first-person perspective. You soon find out yourself in a under 
 water city fighting against mutated people and BigDaddy's to get to the little sisters to get adam 
 to upgrade yourself at vending machines. There are many diffrent guns such as the tommy gun and 
 granade launcher and powers which are fire, telecanesis and electricity. The whole point of this 
 game besides hacking and modifying plasmids to improve powers is finding the mystery of what is 
 going really going on in Rapture, and of course there is a big boss fight at the end where you 
 must fight this big daddy. The gameplay is pretty much like system shock 2 accept with powers and 
 styles being diffrent.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game is very nice to look at. (what game is't these days) The movements 
 of the characters are smooth and lighting is well lit for the type of game that it is. 
  
  Sound: The soundtrack/sound effects of this game is well done. Everything sound the way it should 
 sound and the voice acting in this game is quite well done aswell. At times when it's dark all 
 the creepy sounds really get to you escpecally if you don't know whats around the corner. so yes, 
 no complaints here. 
  
  Value: All in all this is a very good game with a good narrative/story to keep you wanting to find 
 out more about whats going on and what happend. gameplay is quite fun and sound is great to listen 
 to and really creep you out at times and the game is great to look at. The only thing I did not 
 really like the lack of challange when it comes to fighting the big daddy's because you can die 
 countless amout of time and come back in this tank with no reprocutions and continue fighting. 
 I give this game 9.0 out of 10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bioshock122
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  Story 10
  Sound/Music/Voice Acting : 10
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics : 9.5
  Level Design : 9.8
  But it has some bugs = (
  
  
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting fg for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting 
 for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting 
 for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting 
 for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting 
 for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting fg for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting 
 for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting 
 for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting 
 for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting 
 for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Waiting 
 for Bioshock 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devvy01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 2:44 am PT
Review:  I have not been able to play this game until I recently upgraded by compy, but this was the first 
 game I starting playing after reading so much about it.
  The requirements are high, but the rewards are staggering in terms of graphics, sound and playability. 
 You'll never forgive yourself if someone in the future asks "Did you every play Bioshock?". So 
 armed with a cup of coffee and the subwoofer turned up, we're off to the past .....
  
  The games begins with you, aboard a play listening to a tape recorder aboout your parents .... 
 then .... your swimming in the sea. Straight away this is where your graphics card gets a work 
 out. More shadows, reflections and waves of fire than any other game I've played, and we're about 
 30 seconds into the game. Your life is about to be cut short unless you swim over to the light 
 house, where the game reveals what it is all about.
  The bathosphere awaits to take you down to an underwater city called Rapture where the local folk 
 have been poisned with only death on the mind, and people's organs for dinner. You'll roam around 
 for awhile in amazement just looking at the detail in the environment, but wait here comes your 
 first attacker.
  As the game progresses you'll need to track where you've been, so a handy little mapping system 
 will point you in the right way, along with the mission goals. Once you've found your way, the 
 locals will need to be dealt with your amazing weapons ... oh you don't have any. Well search your 
 victims for an array of items for your protection.
  If you cant get any weapons, there's handy machines that'll let you top your health, buy ammunition, 
 and special items that you'll need later. You have health, then you have EVE, which is your energy 
 for your special abilities. You can buy this, find it in places and earn it depending on your GENE 
 configuration.
  You Don't know about geneology? Well then off to school to learn it, cause you'll need to program 
 your genes so that you have different abilities to deal with the array of baddies, including "MR 
 Bubbles". NO this is nothing to do with Michael Jackson, but a major baddie that takes a little 
 more firepower than your average hand cannon.
  With so much going on, you forgot to stop and listen to the background noises from people moving 
 around, the music and sound effects from the security cameras.
  The game has so much to offer and after playing it for so long, I just want it to go on forever 
 which is another great positive for the game, the large playing fields. Your never waiting to load 
 that "Next part" each level is complete until you move onto another part of the city. Greatness 
 all round.
  As I said, any 1st person shooter player should've played this once, twice, 50 times, it'll always 
 be installed on my computer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FantasyShooter7
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is truly an amazing game, it has amazing DirectX 10 graphics and effects blended with 
 an interesting storyline. I barely meet the system requirements
  ( I have AMD athlon XP 3200+ single core 2.2GHz OCed to 2.5GHZ, Nvidia Geforce 8600GT OCed to 640Mhz/1480MHz, 
 2GB DDR RAM, Windows Vista) and i can play the game on maximum detail settings at 1280x1024 with 
 absolutely zero lag! The game is very very easy to learn, for players who have previously played 
 the Elder Scrolls Oblivion IV, Bioshock should be a piece of cake to learn.
  
  The underwater city of rapture is a scary place. The gameplay is absolutely amazing, however i 
 wouldn't recommend this game to the faint hearted :) . The game does have a little humour such as 
 the small advertisements that pop up when you buy new plasmids that are in 1960s fashion. Also 
 the mutated beings often would yell outDarling is that you?", then you would grab ur shotgun 
 and blow their heads off :)
  
  In conclusion Bioshock is definately the best game i have played so far, you don't need the absolute 
 best computer the run it smooth, I can run it very smoothly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgicore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock,
  
  Indeed, it was a very very special game to play, right from the beginning to the end. What a pleasure, 
 what a real pleasure. The graphics and sounds are excellent. The story was amazing and twisting, 
 or should I say, beautiful and touching. It's definitely a MUST play. 
  
  I have never harvested any little girl, as one site mentioned, if you do, you will end up having 
 a bad ending, even if you just harvest 1 of them. So, I stuck in saving all of the little girls 
 right from the beginning to the end and yes, I enjoyed the ending of the game, it was..... touching.
 
  
  Bio has indeed set the bar high. Masterfully achieved by the creators. 
  Scored only 9? Let's give Bio a 9.5 score.
  
  Beautifully Story, with a twist...
  
  Would 
 you kindly play Bioshock 2?
  Would you kindly..... 
  Would you.....
  Would... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saejox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  This game tends to be a clone of SS2. But fails.
  First of all it doesnt have any kind of horror. Not even scary stuff.
  Also it doesnt feel like 
 you have character customization. Story is not deep enough. Okay it delivers something, but certainly 
 not enough to cover whole setting.
  Also its very very easy, i felt like using a god-mode cheat. Even big daddies are joke.
  Game 
 is not long. Finished it about 6-8 hours. Totaly dissapointing for a full price game.
  
  Why did i give it a 8.5 ?
  
  Coz its done professionally. Sound effects, graphics, AI (but its 
 easy to beat 'em) , voice acting etc... all makes you feel like playing a great game. Wish they 
 didnt aim for casual players
  
  I got nothing to say. There are many good reviews around just read them.
  If you didnt play SS2 
 then dont say "this is unique, great story etc".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kimo2411
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 29, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  First of all , bioshock is one of the best games i have ever played and the first game I have played 
 since i got my new pc , the biggest game i had played just before bioshock was the elder scrolls 
 (great game) on such a low resolution so for me the graphics in bioshock was like living a dream 
 ! , ok now why give it such a low score then ?? here is the answer
  
  -First thing: the game starts of sooooooooo hard and frustrating , you have no guns just a wrench 
 , and if you stumble upon a gun you literally lick the ground to find ammo for that gun and if 
 you do find at last you dont use it because you dont want to waste it ! instead you use your PLASMIDS 
 which is only the electric one in the beginning , and then u lick it again and again to find a 
 health kit or an EVE hypo ! i realy liked that alot though , the game was realy hard at the beginning 
 and the first BIG DADDY that you encounter -OH MY GOD- that was the hardest thing i fought in all 
 my years of pc gaming ! you hit him then you run and run as fast as you can ! when i finally managed 
 to defeat him i was all sweaty and had the sense of complete victory, it was a real good feeling 
 :) , anyways so whats the bad thing ?? after u play 2 or 3 missions (i dont remember) u start upgrading 
 ur guns ,upgrading ur health and EVE (which u use for plasmids) ,upgrading ur armor, finding ammo 
 everywhere , u always have maximum health kits and if u use one , u will find plenty more and suddenly 
 the game gets real easy , the BIG DADDY that was supposed to be the hardest thing alive gets killed 
 by 4 or 5 shots of the cross bow or chemical thrower and he doesnt even get to touch although he 
 becomes ELITE BIG DADDY later on , the splicers that u kill become sooooo easy and they do u little 
 harm or nothing at all , its like u play the first missions and then get ur little brother to finish 
 the game !
  
  Second thing (the most important) : okay now this is gonna get weird so it isnt for the faint of 
 heart ! in some kinda a mission , the game gives u a combination for a safe 9457 ( i will never 
 forget that number !) , tells u to go open a safe and take a key from inside it , go open another 
 door and carry on with ur mission , so where is the problem in that ? here it is , i went to the 
 safe , entered the number and the safe opens and VOILAAA its empty ! okay now this sounds realy 
 weird but it WAS empty ! ur objective in the game is highlighted in golden yellow , after i opened 
 the safe and found it empty the safe was still golden yellow so it WAS the real safe ! okay now 
 if u were me what would u have done ??? i posted this problem here and on the 2k forums , guess 
 what ? lots of people had the same problem not just me ! just google BIOSHOCK GLITCH and u will 
 see what i am talking about , so if u play bioshock , u have a 40-60 % chance of encountering that 
 glitch , and what did 2k do about it ? NOTHING ! and the solutions the people posted for that glitch 
 were just as hilarious as the glitch itself , examples fpr that :
  1- enter the room and go directly to the safe without looking left or right
  2- enter the room 
 and dance alittle then go to the safe
  3- equip ur shotgun while opening the safe
  4-erase the whole game and play from the beginning
  and some other stupid things ! , what did 
 i do ? a lucky guy who didnt suffer that glitch sent me his save files just after he took the key 
 ! , totally differnt weapon upgrades , totally different plasmids totally different game !!! now 
 THATS annoyinggggggggggg !!!!!
  
  Third thing : soooooooooooo many plasmids and sooooooooo many guns ! some people finf that a good 
 thing but not me !
  
  Fourth thing : the final boss is the easiest boss in all my gaming history !! he will appear very 
 powerful but u will use 1 or 2 health kits maximum while fighting him !
  still here are some good things that made me give that game 6 .0 not 3.0 or something
  - the 
 graphics are absolutely marvellous 
  - the voice acting is the best i have heard ! no i realy mean it , they should get an oscar or 
 something
  - the story is great with a wonderful ending but i dont want to ruin it
  
  CONCLUSION : if and only IF u are sure that u wont experience that glitch that 2k -thankfully- 
 did nothing about and left us crying ourselves to sleep and even having eating disorders because 
 of ( okay now i am exxagerating :) ) , buy this game , its the best 
  
  cheerz 
  email: kimotorky@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aifo
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  Not what i was expecting, this game is by all means average or less than average. OK I admit enduring 
 story and great imagination and atmosphere ( not the best I've seen though) . But seriously this 
 game does not deserve the credit it has been given. It has some flaws that I can't see how they 
 have been overlooked. I think a more suitable critic score would be an 8.5 . The theme itself of 
 the "big daddy" protecting a little girl gets kinda dull after a while. The graphics are good but 
 not the best. The gameplay is boring. Go ther shoot that. Upgrade. That's about it. You know when 
 you look at Japanese games, you can tell they are far more advanced than the cr*p America creates. 
 
  Do I recommend it? well go rent it and TRY to finish it in a couple of days if you can go on, that 
 is.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baboy_baka
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:11 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is probably one of my top favorite games on PC. Simply because it has great graphics, 
 a twist in the storyline, the gameplay and the imagination.
  
  Finally there is a game that has a storyline that is based in an underwater city: something that 
 i have been waiting for in a first-person shooter game. Although the time line of this game is 
 set back in the late 1950's, it has that futuristic substance, which can be seen through the enemies 
 you encounter and the weapons you use. It has a mix of the past and the future.
  
  The AI of the game is fun to play with. Enemies play dead on you and spring up for a surprise attack, 
 and the games physics are very interactive. There are not a lot of weapons in this game, but you 
 can certainly upgrade them to make them better. The thing i like most about the game is the non 
 linear game play and storyline. The ending of the game will determine on how many little sisters 
 you save or harvest, giving you two different endings. 
  
  This is certainly one of the many unique first person shooter I have played. It is very interactive 
 and certainly fun to play with. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crysis-matter
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  bioshock is a interesting game that will amaze anyone. First off, it tells a amazing story. without 
 spoiling too much off it, the story goes you a dude who's plane crashes in the middle of the atlantic 
 and you go in a lighthouse that leads to Rapture, this awesome a yet weird underwater city that 
 was build by andrew ryan in the 40s. the really neat thing about the game is the atmosphere, the 
 creepy, terror, atmosphere. sometimes when your walking around rapture, you'll see a dead splicer 
 (dead zombie, ugly, scary people) on the ground and you would think if he or she is dead, THEIR 
 DEAD, BUT NO THEY JUMP AND SCAR THE CRUDE OUT OF YOU!!! That is basically it you'll probally not 
 be scared again. 
  
  The other cool thing is the combat. You get rhese things called plasmids which are changing the 
 DNA code and make you shoot fire and other things. You can get other plasmids at these taking machines 
 that will make you get more health or eve and plasmids. You can buy plasmids with money but with 
 adam and you get adam from 7 year old girls with yellow eyes. you can choose to kill the little 
 child and turn her into a slug and get all the adam out or you can free her from her evil state 
 and get a little adam so there are choices to be concedered with saving or killing her. Before 
 you can decide what to do with these girls, you'll have to deal with a big daddy; a huge giant 
 1950 diving suit that is to protect the girl aand then after you kill it, you can decidew what 
 to do with the kid
  
  The enemy AI in this game is awesome. there still are going to be morons who will not do anything 
 and let themselfs get killed, but the enemys are pretty smart. If you put a enemy on fire they 
 will jump in a puddle of water which is smart
  
  The gameplay is awesome but it still has some flaws. the reason the gameplay isnt awesome is because 
 the guns stink. you get a pistol, a machine gun, a shotgun, and a crossbow (crossbow???) . the plasmids 
 are defintly fun because there are so many ones and are all fun to use. The gamepaly is just cool.
 
  
  The graphics are amazing. it has good shadow, water and texture. it uses the the best engine, the 
 unreal engine which make games look awesome, it still has the texture pop in but that is just a 
 way to show that it is the unreal engine.
  
  The sound is one of the stars. you hears water dripping and bog daddy footsteps. The voice acting 
 is the star of the star which is the sound the voice acting is so good you dont need subtitles 
 to know what there saying.
  
  At the end bioshock is successful and a must have for anyone so go get it now, now, now, now!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freudlacan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  I dont like FPS, shooting aliens, shooting soldiers, shooting monsters BORING!
  
  But this is a fantastic sci-fi novel somewhere in between Julius Verne and Isaak Asimov.
  
 
  I really couldn't believe all the detailed world made to feet all together in this amazing history, 
 in fact, if there were a book ill be willing to read it, cause there were just so many audio I 
 just couldn't understand for being in the middle of a fight, or just cause there were so many recordings 
 splattered on every level, everything done for not losing the hype and for keeping you wandering 
 whats going on in here?
  
  I have to say that my encounter with RYAN was something Ive never expected, and thats what I 
 always expect from a game to surprise me! ( that's what i like so much MGS saga)
  
  And other beautiful thing at least two endings! they could do better but well at least not having 
 a linear just one ending game its great, and of course you can get back to previous levels another 
 amazing feature.
  
  Just one critic, again a better integration of a "regular" not just xbox360 controller into the 
 pc game, come times it was hard changing plasmids or weapons that the better option its sticking 
 just to one plasmid and one weapon (electric and wrench) through all the game (just change to the 
 shotgun when the wrench was not doing so good and maybe fire plasmid) and that makes you of course 
 like loosing the fun of using the other plasmids and weapons making them somehow useless. 
  
  Overall, just a great game, easy and inmersive even for my that don't like this genre of FPS, 
 and of course its a classic you must have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeaLocKe
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 16, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Ok dont blame me. Bioshock is a cool game, but as a fan of system shock 2 and as a knowledge that 
 this game is ss2 succesor it sucks.
  
  ill explain why.
  
  The cool fact on ss2 was the scary atmosphere that the game gave you that made you walk around 
 the corridors of the von braum like a paranoid, counting the bullets with your fingers and hearing 
 the creeppy sounds of the many s boys. All those stuff made the game great.
  
  Bioshock lacks all of that, is just loose shooting on disfigured people. Ammo is everywhere, either 
 u can buy it on machines (with are also VERY easy to hack) or either u can find them on strange 
 places. 
  
  The enemies dont scare AT ALL. Yup they are tough, but they dont give the sensation of "huge Threat 
 coming for u" that they should give. "and the big daddies?" u ask?, they dont do nothing if you 
 dont hit them.
  
  Problem is, bioshock is not a terror fps.. is an action fps. The strong points of bioshock is the 
 combat and the cool use of plasmids. However, one guy that can use plasmids, and guns and ALSO 
 hack is quite imbalanced if you play well, while ss2 logics are still intact (hacking, plasmids, 
 medkits, eve hypos) . Just a little of ss2 logic and you can get rid from many troubles.
  
  Instead of that, graphics are outstanding. Nothing to arge about it.
  
  Sound is ok, nothing 
 much spectacular for me.
  
  I need to go deeper on this review but for now, if they mix the action of bioshock with the atmospheric 
 scare of ss2, you could get one of the most coolest pc games of all time, PERIOD. Hope this guys 
 think more on that than in profits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buldog300
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard the idea of playing a superhuman trapped at the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean 
 fighting junkies and corrupt leaders, I was a bit skeptical. The idea of absolute anarchy isn't 
 a new concept, but giving a player numerous options to hack, beat, fry, electrocute, freeze and 
 enrage your enemies has seldom, if ever, been so cunningly applied to a game. 
  
  The novel-like plot that envelops Bioshock is unique in it's own sense. You, a nameless protagonist 
 are flying over the Atlantic when your plane crashes. It lands, strangely, over the underwater 
 city of rapture. Suffice to say, you grab a crowbar, splice yourself up and go on a killing spree 
 of the not so friendly denizens of the underwater dystopia. The plot slowly unfolds as many questions 
 slowly become answered, and you struggle to stop the main antagonist, Andrew Ryan. 
  
  The gameplay is inventive, in that there are dozens of ways you can kill any given enemy. Almost 
 no two battles are the same, as enemies struggle to shoot, beat, trap and trick you. Over time 
 you upgrade and find new ways to kill your increasingly tough opponents. The pistol that used to 
 be an instakill head shot won't even faze a splicer with no research data in the later levels. 
 The Rpg elements permit the game to increase in challenge, while still preventing combat from becoming 
 stale. Getting tired of using combustion? The break out your mind-controlled big daddy and watch 
 the fun.
  
  The setting itself is unsettling, provided your computer (assuming your playing on a pc) can handle 
 the technical demands. Leaking pipes, thin layers of mist and rubble are all commonplace in the 
 ruins of the once great city. Some parts make you question what's keeping the buildings structurally 
 standing, as the pressure is building and the splicers go about not caring. 
  
  Sound effects are appropriate, ranging from the splurching sound your monkey wrench makes as it 
 makes contact with an enemy's face, to the dramatic warning that's given when your seconds from 
 death. Radios playing classic music only add to the unease that rapture generates. The thought 
 that the people your butchering were once sane and productive members of society, now well-cast 
 crazies screaming rather confusing accusations at you gives you a sense of how far gone they truly 
 are. 
  
  The value of Bioshock is in it's lengthy story. Since there's no (official) multilayer, the only 
 content available is in single player mode, which isn't long for dedicated players, however the 
 replay value is truly what will keep you playing after the first round. Exploring new options and 
 toys to pummel your enemy with make you only wish that you have more than the original levels to 
 play around with. 
  
  Bioshock isn't revolutionary, but it is ambitious and does lay some foundation for the concept 
 of predecessors. With it's rpg elements, mysterious plot and unsettling atmosphere, it is truly 
 a game worth considering. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neverbomb
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  Bioshock follows on the System Shock legacy adding very few innovations; 
  
  The sense of desperation and horror invoked by the outstanding art and level design has been undermined. 
 This is due to the small variety of enemies, and weak AI left open to many exploits. In addition, 
 due to the fact that the game is not really hard, the re-spawning system deprives the gameplay 
 of any sense of survivalist nature. It seems to be quite forgiving and that loses any incentive 
 for the player to be vigilant, witted and relentless, all necessary aspects of a "survival horror" 
 game.
  
  Moreover the character skill system has been simplified. Compared to the 3 class system of previous 
 Systemshock titles, any customisation of character skills in Bioshock feels shallow. In turn Bioshock 
 loses all incentive of replay-ability since skill decision and variation choices do make each replay 
 a unique experience. 
  
  Furthermore, the enemy placement does not seem to complement the excellent level design. Many a 
 times I would walk in empty areas thinking to myself "what a good fight I could have had here, 
 too bad its vacant of (serious) enemy presence"
  
  To keep a long story short, should you have completed a Systemshock title, there is very little 
 need to play Bioshock. All in all, it is a highly overrated game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bearbazan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  I really liked how scary everything was, especially the 50's music while creepy stuff is amidst. 
 The beginning was a little weird and unexplained. I also liked how the weapons and stuff were just 
 complex enough, but not too much. I did not like how Atlas was only communicative when he wanted 
 to, no reverse communication. All in all I think this is a super fun and scary game that is very 
 worth every hour put into it! still have a few words to go but have nothing else to say bl a a 
 a a a a a a a aa aa aa aaaaa aaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaa aaa aa aa aa aaa aaaa aaaa aa aa aa god 
 why does something have to be "x" amount of words anyway. SOB nazis! Who the hell do they think 
 they are forcing me to put filler in my review, Jesus balls! I mean if I wanted this to say "Hey, 
 it was ok and I had fun" these people should just take it! At least I put something! This game 
 really is good tho. But if you are reading this then you have already seen everyone in the world 
 talking about it and its awesomeness. Think i'm gonna go on UFC. com and do the fantasy thing for 
 the Lesnar v. Couture fight... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krisbowe
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Not a bad game but not something I have actually replayed since I finished it.
  
  The scenario is nothing new and nothing that hasnt been done before.
  The setting is interesting 
 but forces linear gameplay. You have to follow the story line, maybe i have just gotten used to 
 freeplay of the GTA series....
  
  The atmosphere and creepiness factor is very high for me. Well done and has some of those "oh S$%#" 
 moments when you see/hear a big daddy coming your way.
  
  It definitely has moments that are different but nothing extraordinary or groundbreaking in the 
 game world. I cant say as I am as impressed as some others on the site are. Hoepfully in B@ the 
 will adapt the world approach rather than the linear approach to a game.
  
  
  
  It does grow on you, trying to get enough ADAM to survive is a challenge when you are going for 
 a "nice" guy approach.
  
  Would i buy it again if I had demoed it first? No
  
  Would i want to pay brand new retail price? Not really, personally not something that has replay 
 value for me. definitely wait for the sales to hit.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masenkoe
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  BioShock is a great game if you haven't played it I suggest you do, but if you don't like blood 
 and stuff or are just one of those people who think all "M" games are bad (I know a few who think 
 so) , well then go away and don't play it. I really had no idea what BioShock was about or anything 
 until a couple days ago playing it on the PS3. I decided since the PC version recently dropped 
 to $20.00 I'd get it. I am very pleased with it so far. 
  
  Story 9.5/10
  ------------
  I love the story in BioShock it's very original and really keeps a person playing to find out what 
 happens next. Sometimes though, you do worry if more enemies will come at you at random times. 
 The story for BioShock makes it a game where you are almost ALWAYS in danger. I like this aspect 
 of the game but it can also be stressful at times.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  --------------
  The PC graphics for BioShock are amazing, they are very realistic making the game even scarier. 
 I am very impressed with the graphics for this game and don't think they could really get much 
 better. But of course there are always improvements that can be made to anything. 
  
  Control 9.3/10
  ----------------
  The control is smooth. It is very easy to walk around and 
 attack enemies. I like having this easy control. But I may be more buyist towards the control being 
 better on PC because I am out of practice with my skills with a console controller. I am very pleased 
 and amazed with BioShock and for the price of only $20.00 new for the PC, this game a pretty much 
 a must buy. I suggest you get this game if you've never played it.
  
  _____________
  Overall Score:
  9.5 + 10.0 + 9.3 = 
  Average of 9.6 rounded to 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markus31
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Just wanted to say that i've been a avid PC gamer since the dawn of computer gaming, Mostly shooters. 
 In my opinion, Bioshock is hands down the best game ever made in the history of shooters. Storyline 
 is amazing, graphics will take your breath away, sound is phenomenal and no other game even comes 
 close. Awesome replay value as well. Maybe I need a life but I start a fresh game every 2 months 
 or so and complete it. Every single game is different each time you play it, I find myself jumping 
 out of my seat just as much now as I did the first time I played it. I am very much looking forward 
 to the bigscreen movie that is in the works as well. Absolutely birlliant in every way, shape and 
 form. Hope everyone enjoys this game as much as I do and am SOOO looking forward to Bioshock 2: 
 Sea of Dreams. Wtg 2K! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game, it kinda gave me a jolt because, first of all, the enemies 
 have all these bloody scars and missing flesh and all that. Second, they move very fast, and talk 
 in a strange language and are nowhere NEAR easy if you're unnaware that they're there. Third, you 
 can search the area for enemies, but they won't be there. Then, you go back to what you're doing and 
 out of nowhere appears an enemy! The thing that surprises you is that they appear when your back 
 is turned, and normally attack you then. So, you're not expecting it. Apart from this being scary, it's 
 SUPER FUN!! You can put this sort of drug in your veins (not heroin) , and it gives you powers. One 
 is called inceneration. The weapons are cool, too. You have a shotgun, pistol, wrench and more! Great 
 game, I recommend it to horror and non-horror gamers out there.
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doctor_Mo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  TrueScore: 9.8
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 9.5
  Audio: 9.5
  Story: 10
  Tilt: 10
  
  To summarize the nuances of Bioshock is to try to distill social psychology into a limited amount 
 of space where entire textbooks would be more relevant. As a professor, and an avid gamer, it was 
 truly a treat to take a journey into the world that Bioshock offered. 
  
  Bioshock tells the story of an attempt to create an idyllic society and the imminent dangers that 
 such social experimentation yield. If you allow yourself to be placed into the mentality of the 
 game, you find yourself a part of a psychological horror that has unfortunately seen itself played 
 out in history. For a group of people to follow a leader, to allow themselves to become isolated, 
 and to watch that leader descend into paranoia and madness and bring the people who trusted him 
 down the spiral is both fascinating and heartbreaking. Examples of such imagery can be found in 
 the experiences of Jim Jones People Temple, the Branch Davidians, and the Heaven's Gate group. 
 
  
  To observe phenomenon like the examples above is shocking. To be placed into the phenomenon as 
 a character in the tragedy is another experience altogether. This effect is enhanced by a variety 
 of game additions. For example, as you go through the levels, you may run across audio journals 
 from the citizens. Each of these journals gives a glimpse into the society, the inhabitants, and 
 the intrigue of the story. Skipping these journals is a mistake, and not wanting to miss one encourages 
 exploration. As you explore the levels, you get the sense of the grandeur of the ideas of the visionary. 
 Theaters, gaming rooms, living quarters, medical facilities, and a number of mechanical subsystems 
 to keep it all running, are just a few of the examples of environments that you come across. 
 
  
  Even in these seemingly benign environments we find horror. From the manic attempts to adhere to 
 strict aspects of beauty (a wink at modern day plastic surgery and the Euro-Western ideal of what 
 is attractive) to the draconian control of thought ("smugglers" persecuted for distributing Bibles) , 
 this game traverses a fairly wide swath of societal experience. One of the more heartbreaking moments 
 came when I entered a room and found a family that, instead of allowing the young daughters to 
 succumb to the evil of the descent, and to avoid becoming victims of the increasingly violent neighbors 
 that they once trusted, the family chose to make the final decision. Stumbling unto this serene 
 tableau with an inconspicuous bottle of poison placed by the couch and the cups still on the table 
 was somewhat unsettling. Leaving the room and re-entering the madness and violence that was outside 
 called for another stark switch in my mental awareness. To run around the corner and see a young 
 child "playing" with a dead body was the final juxtaposition of innocence and morbidity. Truly 
 a shocking and fairly complex emotional experience for a game to deliver.
  
  And that is exactly what Bioshock is about. It's playing with your mind and conceptualizations 
 of what is perfect. From the perfect society to perfect beauty to perfect innocence, Bioshock challenges 
 the script. And the fact that there is incredible action, weapons, bio-modifications, and enemy 
 AI just adds all the right ingredients to this incredible offering. 
  
  In conclusion, Bioshock is one of the most gripping and intellectual stories I've ever experienced 
 in a video game. And it manages to pull this off without being pretentious or taking away from 
 gameplay. The horror is in the details  for those who know and want to see. Of course, run and 
 gunners will also have a ball. To combine both aspects of gameplay in such a skillful manner is 
 just one more juxtaposition that Bioshock pulls off seamlessly in every way.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hevion
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  So i got this game coz i saw some videos and it was very appreciated from the average gamer. i 
 wanted to see what it was all about and well... its all about the story and the so called plasmids.
 
  
  the textures and lighting effects and all was pretty good indeed although i really didnt like the 
 blood effects. The design of the game is all very unique steam-punk like.. nice details in everything 
 (surroundings, weapons, fire, etc) and the gameplay was very good. the shopping system and hacking 
 system like that from system shock and all was put up really nice.. weapon customization was not 
 particularly interesting... but at least it was present... the enemies were well put with the story 
 and everything. and then there were the plasmids
  
  the plasmids are what make this game unique. The idea of genetically modifing the human body so 
 that it can set things on fire from a range just with the flick of a finger or shoot lightning 
 or freeze stuff even let out bees from ur arms to attack everyone around! a plasmid i particularly 
 liked was the teleknesis. the thing that u can grab things from a distance keeping the hovering 
 in front of you that hurl them at high speeds at your enemies is really cool... sumting i have never 
 seen before in any first person shooter. you can throw almost everything... even dead enemies! so 
 yeah the plasmids are what made this game really fun for me.
  
  apart from cash to buy medkits and ammo... there was ADAM. ADAM was sumting you could gather from 
 the little sisters to buy new plasmids at certain areas.. The little sisters are little children 
 who collect adam running around all rapture (the underwater city the game takes place in) who are 
 protected by the big daddies. now the big daddies are a real challenge. those dont attack u on 
 sight but if u dare touch the little sister or attack him... you are in big trouble! after taking 
 down the big daddy you can either harvest the little sister which gives u alot of adam... or save 
 the sister which give u less adam but makes u a nice person (and makes the game ALOT harder) but 
 at least in the end u get the happy ending (which i didnt)
  
  The story is really well put and everything and as you go along u uncover the mystery of who you 
 are and what really happend and why you are really there (coz yeah crashing with a plane and jumping 
 into a bathysphere thing is not convincing) the story is really good and has multiple endings.. which 
 didnt really make me want to play again.
  
  now what i really didnt like about the game was the blood, as i already mentioned and the fact 
 that it gets too hard when its almost over... like real hard. the blood is not convincing in any 
 way.. and theres not gibbing at all.. and yeah the blood does matter in fps.
  
  overall this game was pretty much what i expected from it... very worth it. Go buy it if ur interested... the 
 plasmids are enough to make the game fun. so 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  
  This is where this game really delivers. The architecture, the story, the hacking, the atmosphere. 
 The design of such a big world beneath the water is outstanding. the game really does make you 
 feel that this is a city, from casino's to arcades to record stores to bars. The story is projected 
 in many ways; ghostly flashbacks, audio diaries and the splicers talking to themselves. You have 
 vending machines to buy ammo and health. The plasmids are a new, innovative and great feature in 
 the game. Using the power of Eve, you can shock, burn and freeze enemies. You are free to explore 
 this open world. Take pictures for research or just gamble at a casino. Later in the game you can 
 invent items or power up your guns. The light RPG element fits into this game greatly as you choose 
 to be the hero you want. if you want to fight up close you can equip wrench tonics to improve wrench 
 damage. You can become a great hacker with hacking tonics and you can master using the power of 
 flame with fire tonics. Sure the lack of multiplayer is disappointing and the hacking can become 
 tedious, but this all evolves as the game progresses.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in this game are outstanding, the oxygen forests and the fishing grounds look beautiful, 
 the atmosphere is foggy and through the tunnels you can see the water around the open environment, 
 its just super stunning. The lighting on the piano stage or in the dark creepy areas can really 
 change your mood. Also dont drink to much or your screen will shake and you will see 2 or 3 of 
 everything. The water effects are stunning and make the other elements look weak, but still excellent 
 by most accounts.
  
  Sound:
  
  The audio in this game is perfect, from the audio diaries, where the chatter is top notch and the 
 accents right on the spot. Also the sad talk from the splicers is great, and the jingles from the 
 vending machines. Let us not forget the background music, which is excellent especially "Cohen's 
 Masterpiece"
  
  Value:
  
  Is this game worth the price? Hell yea. I mean why would you not pay 40$ for such a great game. 
 The gameplay is great, the difficulty level is just right and overall it is one of the best gaming 
 experiences you will have. However the lack of multiplayer can be an issue
  
  Lifespan:
  
  The single player is not too long and too short. It's just right, and trust me it will keep 
 you hooked for a while. The only problem is that after the single player is complete you wont be 
 touching this game anymore as there is no multiplayer, however you could replay this game just 
 to see the other ending. Thats if you dont want to check it out on youtube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuFazzZ
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Well from the title i wasnt expecting much
  But from the first chapter, i was thrilled.
  The scenario is amazing with a lot of political stuff involved but nevermind the political ideas 
 anyway.
  Underwater city as the ideal society.. wow!
  Generally the atmosphere of the game is amazing , with a lot of nice moments throughout the game. 
 This is not a simple "shoot em up" where u just kill bad guys, move to the next lvl etc..
  The scene at the theater , where the pianist is playing the song and his death , for example, and 
 photo you have to take in order to unlock the next lvl is really nice thinking, and generally the 
 various bad guys are interesting , along with the scenario.
  The idea of dying and coming back alive in a chamber without any overall losses made the game pretty 
 easy , i wouldnt care if i died , no real hamr done , just a little running back and forth
  I played the game in a very average PC but had no huge probs with the frame lag.
  Clever game 
 overall, i really enjoyed it and i believe , if you are really a fan of the scenario based games 
 , you should own it , its a must, the atmosphere is thrilling.
  Cheers!
  +1 for 2k 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hersito
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 7, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  The only thing this game have are good visuals, take that away and you end up with nothing. The 
 story is no were near as great as everyone says it is we seen this kind of twist in more than one 
 game from bio-ware, the character that can't remember who he is.
  There are no more than 10 different enemies in the whole game and the bosses fight suck. Also the 
 last cinematic sucks 2 minutes or less with a cheesy ending. The only good thing are the graphics 
 and they are repetitive with small maps. Even Portal it shorter but better than this game and it 
 can't get near half life 2 or even half life 1. It's halo 1 for PC all over again, repetitive enemies, 
 scenarios with grate visuals, a game that could have been great if they try to get the best of 
 a pc and not just the best of a console, we PC players are doom to play this ports or wait till 
 ID or Valve make good FPS pc and then ported to console games.
  If you want to play a good FPS play Crysis or something else but this game sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zellwwf
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  The sweetness of this game lies in its Story and Visuals, it really sucks u in :P... 
  the bitterness is that the Combat system is too fast, umm the atmosphere is quite freakky :P but 
 really well made ! 
  2K Games have done alot in this game. Inspite of some stuff.. but yea it has done alot! The games 
 graphics are spectacual, Physics engine is also nice! (of course its using Unreal's engine) and 
 the storyline is abit compelling.. amazing atmosphere, that just lures you in the game. This games 
 story is quite different though.. the Falling from a Plane, Adam & Eve, Little Sisters & Big Daddies, 
 till "Rapture" it self.. this game is addictive.
  I Heard ppl say this game is scary.. umm i think its just the sound effects and the 50's music, 
 or maybe the Lights?? but the Enemies them selves aren't scary.. perhaps alittle wierd.. but look 
 closly.. they are funny :P... the Atmosphere is scary .. quite a bit :P specially in the begginin 
 of the game where you have deal with a Surgeon. but its not that scary.. more like inticing or 
 heartbeating-scary (Like almost all FPS) .
  The Game isn't ALL Wonderful .. lets be reasonable... if you wanna play a Normal FPS, BioShock 
 wouldn't be your game.. its Combat system is quite fast.. really fast.. if your still early in 
 the game you'll get really confused and sortof "WTF??" but eventually you'll get used to it :P. 
 they should slow down everything in this game.. its like ur on a "Caffiene" Rush :P
  ... 
  ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  bioshock is a game that is as fun as creative. Though there are arguments about just how 'creative' 
 this concept is, I still found Bioshock to be a 'shock' in terms of creativity.
  
  The game is solid; great visuals with fun gameplay that revolves around a likable plasmid system. 
 All in all, I also liked the 'choice' system that the game implemented throughout. In short, Bioshock 
 is a sure winner.
  
  Though there are complaints of its level of 'hardcore', such as the instant spawning after death 
 and even maybe its level of difficulty, I found the game to be well worth the time. More than that; 
 I say the game was a complete success. Maybe the only problem was that I needed to a grow a pair 
 in order to immerse myself in the story more. But let's just say, I can't play this thing alone 
 in the dark.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skellio
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 2, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  Everything about this game is great. Visuals, sounds, game-play, storyline - everything..... that 
 is except for the glitches. I've spent just as much time d***ing around with setting, installing 
 patches, un-installing patches, installing the game, un-installing the game, updating video drivers, 
 trying older drivers etc, etc, etc. It's just been a pain in the @$$.
  Example, I had just about finished a level, had about an hour or so invested into it when the game 
 locked up. Stupid me, I did not save it once throughout the level knowing the issues this game 
 has. I will now have to replay the level.
  I don't think the 360 version has all the issues the PC version has. Had I known, I would have 
 waited for the PS3 version.
  Like I said, the game is great..... without the glitches, which are many.
  BTW, I noticed many 
 of the issues went away when I reinstalled the game without the 1.1 patch.
  
  I don't know...... maybe vista is to blame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangeix
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Just finished playing through this game for the second time. First time i played it was a year 
 ago or so, when it first came out.
  What can i say, this game is still great.
  
  First things first, there will be some spoilers to the story of the game. No major twist reveals 
 but absolutely some of the side stories that to me made this game so great.
  
  
  
  The year is 1960 and you are sitting on an airplane somewhere mid-atlantic. But the plane crash 
 in the ocean and you find yourself desperately swimming for a nearby lighthouse.
  Inside the lighthouse you find yourself face to face with a giant statue of some man and on a banner 
 the words "No kings or gods, just man" is written.
  This is not just any ol' mid-atlantic lighthouse, this is the entrance to Rapture.
  
  
  
 
  Rapture is an underwater city where the whole game takes place. A city envisioned and created 
 by one single man, Andrew Ryan.
  From the lighthouse you take some kind of elevator submarine down to the actual city. While you 
 are on your way down you get presented with a little movie made by Andrew Ryan himself, presenting 
 his thoughts and ideas about the perfect society. The whole reason why he created Rapture.
  
  'Is a man not entitled to the sweat of his brow? No says the man in Washington it belongs to 
 the poor. No says the man in the Vatican it belongs to God. No says the man in Moscow it belongs 
 to everyone. I rejected those ideas instead I choose something different, I choose Rapture'
  
  This is all poetry to me, it is so beautifully written and Andrew Ryans voice acting is perfect. 
 Never once during the whole game did i start doubting that Andrew Ryan was this Great man with 
 even greater visions. The man with the rare sort of mindset that can accomplish something like 
 creating Rapture.
  
  But why create an underwater city? Well Andrew Ryans ideas are those of the ultimate Liberal market, 
 full laissez-faire capitalism. Meaning no government interference at all. And with an underwater 
 city you don't even have to concern yourself with the rest of the world. In fact i think during 
 the course of the game there is mentioned that smuggling is forbidden, smuggling in this case being 
 bringing in items from the outside world. You know, bibles and such.
  
  
  
  Anyways, when you dock with your little submarine elevator in the main building. You find that 
 everything has been destroyed and the only thing resembling human life are some deformed dope fiends 
 roaming the corridors.
  
  As you explore rapture you will find tape recordings laying around, each revealing some little 
 part about what has happened to Rapture before you came here. Together with the actual atmosphere 
 of the game and the voice acting, these recordings makes this game a modern classic to me.
  Piece by piece you put together this puzzle that is the former great city of rapture and at the 
 same time you get to know some of the citizens living there. Specially Andrew Ryan.
  One of my favourite recordings of Andrew Ryan is when he is commenting on some guy complaining 
 to him about a certain "Mr. Fountaine" is starting to get monopoly on some key industries in rapture. 
 But he is no way inclined to interfere with the market "The chain moves slowly but with great wisdom".
 
  To me, to really appreciate this game to the max, you must be able love the poetry of such words. 
 Of course if you read this without having played the game, this will probably mean nothing to you 
 so don't get intimidated.
  
  
  
  This is getting way to long but i have mentioned everything that makes this game great in much 
 to great detail. All except for the atmosphere so i guess i have to mention that too.
  
  The atmosphere in this game is just amazing. Every single room in the game tells a story of what 
 has happened there. Most look allot like war zones with blood splattered over the walls, but you 
 can almost always imagine how beautiful it was there before it was wrecked.
  In fact now that i think about it, a way to see how the certain key places looked is the only thing 
 missing this game.
  
  
  Sorry for all spelling and grammatical errors. I'm from Sweden and it is soooooo late here i can 
 hardly keep my eyes open :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonnyEarthquake
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  Writing reviews is an ungrateful job. You just can`t evaluate games like Crysis or Gears of War 
 fairly. There are armies of fans that will stand and fall for it, ignoring any arguments, spitting 
 right into your face for not sharing the same opinion they do. Hell, I could give any overhyped 
 game a shiny 10, write three sentence review with no information whatsoever and be good with it. 
 But my own stubbornness doesn`t allow to get away with it so easily, so...
  ... I will disagree with the mainstream forever. Now, lets slander BioShock a little, shall we?
 
  
  Our hero was just trippin` over the Atlantic, but then, BOOM, the plane goes down, the protagonist 
 survives and has no choice but to swim to the nearest lighthouse, yes, a lighthouse in the middle 
 of the Atlantic ocean. And then, guess what, he finds a bathysphere, which takes him Down Below 
 - to a underwater city, yes, you heard it right, a bloody underwater city. A city built under water. 
 With restaurants, theatres, brothels - everything a city needs. All of that under water. Then, 
 a guy, Andrew Ryan, introduces us with Rapture - the place free of forced ideology, oppressive 
 political and religious authority - in other words - a paradise for those who seek it. But something`s 
 wrong. Reeealy wrong. For example, little girls with dangerously looking hypos followed by guys 
 in heavy diving suits, crazy and violent British speaking, Clockwork Orange-esque freaks, who once 
 were lawyers, housewives and janitors - they all share the same dream - rip you apart.
  
  After picking up a heavy wrench and being guided via radio by possibly the only sane person here, 
 Atlas, the protagonist ventures deep into the streets of Rapture, discovering what had happened 
 here before everyone went crazy by reading audio diaries of former inhabitants and avoiding the 
 deadly traps of now paranoid Andrew Ryan, who believes that our hero is an agent sent by government.
 
  
  It sounds crazy, but believe me, the environment, atmosphere and whole plot is incredibly detailed, 
 explained and overall superb. BioShock isn`t just blasting splicers - the inhabitants of Rapture 
 - high up in the sky, it`s an universal satire about social - political philosophy related questions: 
 viability of ulitarism ideas in post-WWII world, critique of communism and capitalism, society`s 
 tendency of self-destruction and proof, that even the best ideals collapses under their own weight.
 
  
  Of course, a casual gamer just wouldn`t care. It`s incredibly difficult to get all this by a single 
 walkthrough, also it requires huge knowledge about philosophy and politics, everything, that an 
 average gamer just doesn`t have. In fact, immersing in BioShock`s wold is hard. Heck, for the first 
 half of the game I was hugely disappointed, but then I got the `click` and immediately fell in 
 love with it.
  The audio diaries I mentioned are not easy to get. They are mostly at places where their former 
 owners could have left them, but collecting can be tiresome, yet essential for understanding the 
 storyline. Once again, casual gamers woudn`t give a damn.
  
  Now for the gameplay. It`s not all that simple - yep, usual arsenal - pistol, shotgun, machine 
 gun, etc. - are in place, but we can upgrade them in special vending machines. Upgrades must be 
 chosen carefully - once used, the terminal is closed forever. Interesting, that all the enhancements 
 are visible on the weapon, even if they look silly. Each gun has 3 types of ammo. For usual guns 
 is just normal, anti-personnel and armor piercing rounds, but flame thrower, for example, can put 
 the enemy on fire or freeze it.
  Ammo can be purchased in vending machines or made by yourself - if you find the right components 
 of course. And it also happens through vendors. Or you can just buy all you need - cash exists 
 here, just loot corpses and cabinets. Unfortunately, to keep the game balanced, our wallet`s size 
 is very limited. Or you might as well just screw everything and hack the device to get stuff for 
 lover prices and access some more exotic items. The hacking minigame is smart, fun and doesn`t 
 get old.
  Plasmids - the sauce of the game - are genetic material, what enhances human power in quite, well, 
 unusual ways - from flame-throwing hand to hornet launching fist, from icy touch to telekinesis. 
 So called `tonics` can be also installed in your body - they are passive skills, that help you 
 when you don`t even know it, like reducing hacking difficulty, finding better loot or simply making 
 you better at killing/defending yourself. Plasmids and tonics can also be upgraded, but there are 
 limited amount of slots - so choose carefully.
  To buy Plasmids (yep, from vendors again -ain`t those some remarkable machines?) we need ADAM - 
 genetic material which helps the user to get new skills or upgrade the existing ones. Using your 
 Plasmid or some of the tonics, your EVE - local mana - runs short, so look out for EVE hypos or 
 alcohol. In fact, eating some snacks for your health can lower your EVE status.
  So, how do we get the ADAM? Y`know it isn`t just something that can be found in the middle of the 
 street. ADAM causes addiction (but not for our hero) , so everyone wants it. Everyone needs it. 
 And guess what, the ones who have it and can extract it from corpses, are Little Sisters - small 
 girls with serious protection - Big Daddies. Here the game introduces us with a moral choice - 
 harvest them (respectively, get ADAM) or save them and hope they won`t forget your kindness. In 
 both ways, Big Daddies must be killed first. Little Sisters are the thing that triggers the ending. 
 BUT if you kill more than ONE Little Sis, you automatically get the EVIL ending. It really made 
 me angry that by just harvesting about 4 of them I automatically wanted to nuke the entire humanity 
 just because.
  But how can you survive without ADAM? Simple. Save Little Sisters and they will give you generous 
 `presents` - teddy bears wit ADAM and other goodies in it. So, kill or not to kill? Not to kill. 
 Presents are a little too generous, so you can just be the Mr. Nice Guy all the way.
  You must bt getting your pants wet by now, eh? I mean, all that combat variety an all. Sorry to 
 disappoint you folks, but the combat system is way too fast paced an too chaotic to enjoy. That`s 
 a true pity. Also, splicers aren`t too intelligent, same for Big Daddies. It doesn`t get in the 
 way, but still creates a feeling of disappointment. So, formula `aim - shoot - reload` works in 
 full swing. Sure, Plasmids vary the combat situations, but I expected something more innovative 
 (superpowers aren`t really the most original thing in video games) .
  To straighten your chances of surviving, we can also photograph enemies to know their weaknesses 
 (bullet types that work best) and improve the damage done against them. Unfortunately, the entire 
 idea looks ridiculous - seriously, why would I do 15% more damage to a splicer just because I photographed 
 5 of them? And bullet types are logical, so no explanation isn`t really necessary.
  I would like to bash the level design a little. No, artistically it`s extremely good, but the planning... 
 I don`t believe that Rapture is a city at all! Rooms simply sticked to corridors create sense of 
 disorganization and disbelief. The navigation is overall poor, using the map is a pain in the butt.
 
  What I found most disappointing was the difficulty. Is so darn easy, that even a child could do 
 it. First of all, the hero is immortal. Rapture is full of Vita - Chambers what magically saves 
 you from death (but for some reason, no one else) . After a bloody death, we`re back with half health 
 and more fury to unleash.
  
  Graphically, BioShock is superb. The potential of Unreal Engine 3 seems to have reached it`s limits. 
 Everything is incredibly detailed, though sometimes animations are a little glitchy, some bugs 
 here and there, interactivity is low. Engine requires a powerful PC to run and loading times are 
 simply annoying. But overall, BioShock is a true next-gen looking game.
  
  From ambient sounds to voice acting, everything is superb, creating, living, breathing world. Splicers 
 remind of Kubrick`s Clockwork Orange, Ryan, Atlas and other characters are voiced simply awesome. 
 Music really helps you get in the game as well as the sounds. So there really are no flaws here.
 
  
  If you own a console, I recommend you to rent the game. After completing BioShock once, you might 
 want to go for another round, but since there is no multiplayer, the box inevitably be placed to 
 `completed games` stack. But it doesn`t matter. BioShock should be played by anyone, who likes 
 deep, complex stories or is just missing intelligent and breathtaking games like Deus Ex. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomsteryeah
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  At the beginning of this game, I have discovered how original and extraordinary this game was. 
 It was nothing like the games I've played before. Either the first-person shooters were WWII, futuristic, 
 or modern style. NONE (I say NONE) was about an underwater city filled with genetically changed 
 mutants, big ass giants with a drill for a hand, and also in the year of the hippies (1960s) ! Not 
 only is it unique in storyline and setting, so is the graphics design and the gameplay as well.
 
  
  The story: You are a guy who is in a plane that crashed in the ocean. Only you surviving, you go 
 towards a mysterious lighthouse and enters a bathysphere (transport vehicle shaped like balls) . 
 Going underwater, you see a city full of... city things, except underwater. Then you pick up a 
 phone and start receiving orders from a guy (Atlas) with a peculiarly funny accent. You do everything 
 he says, explore the world of Rapture (name of city) and kill a hell lot of splicers (mutant people) . 
 There are 2 kinds of currency Adam, and... money. Adam is to purchase genetic enhancements from 
 certain vending machines. Money on the other hand is to buy ammo, health and Eve. Eve is what allows 
 you to use your enhancements such as Incinerate (make people on fire) , or Telekinesis (throw things 
 with your mind) . In other words, its ammo for super powers.
  
  The first thing I'm going to tell you about is the environment. As you know the whole game is underwater, 
 and everything you see is what you would expect in a typical underwater city. The world is remarkably 
 detailed, every corner and speck has been made beautifully to the nearest micrometer (maybe not) . 
 It sets you in to the mood and makes you feel you are right in the game. The movement and physics 
 have been made just right so it seems realistic. Hand movements of the character while reloading 
 and walking looks just like how you would do it in real life, if you ever held a gun made from 
 scraps of metal and a toaster.
  
  Another thing I found really awesome was the gameplay. The AI is swift and realistic, moving to 
 places where you will not expect it, hiding in dark areas, and striking fast like a tiger. Their 
 comments might be repetitive over a while but they will provoke you to do something stupid. The 
 Big Daddy (guy with drill for hand, remember) is the Boss of all bosses. You might die a couple 
 of times, but the reward is worth it. In this game weapons might not be able to help you in some 
 situations, so you get plasmids, which are enhancements to your body allowing you to shoot different 
 elements from your hand. For example the Electric bolt allows you to shoot bolts of lightning at 
 your enemy, stunning them for a period of time. You can also upgrade them by buying them with Adams. 
 These plasmids allow for a full set of different tactics of how to approach enemies. Gene tonics 
 also enhances your body in a passive way.
  
  I've said a lot of good things about this game, but there are some bad parts as well. Some things 
 just isn't right. As you can watch on Youtube, or see it yourself in-game, dead bodies of splicers 
 actually move limbs continuously for example their hand is non-stop waving at you. Don't forget 
 to watch the masturbating glitch on Youtube lol. Other than that I have found something wrong with 
 the physics. As the game is designed to have all elements of the plasmids in mind, somehow, the 
 characters freezing power cannot freeze burning fire. Either they forgot that or I'm just really 
 bad in chemistry. 
  
  My finalized statement for this game is, it is a must play game that you cannot miss. You will 
 definitely like it unless you hate games, and if you do hate games , i do not know why you are 
 reading this. BIOSHOCK rules and you should definitely get the second game when it comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayasdutta
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  What happens when games creator are able to bring a whole universe to life, fear, exitement, graphics 
 and originality? You get a great and immersive gameplay, you get a game that you'll remember and 
 will become a benchmark for the years to come. Next time you'll be playing a FPS, you'll be remembering 
 some particularity of this game. Bioshock place you in a undersea city created from what could 
 described with : A world without scientific ethics. The creators managed to input a Good/Evil decision 
 making system in the game that can fit your gameplay wich shape your character and the story at 
 the same time. This game made me miss system shock 2 and these old days of gaming where a good 
 game wasn't just about looking good. It brought the same climate of horror that the first resident 
 evil benched on the playstation back in the days. Without keeping you out of the story, the game 
 got some nice implented features like weapons customization and power-ups and added a picture reasearch 
 (wich was way better then the original tedious chemical thing that was in system shock 2) . So encountering 
 the same ennemy over and over makes you stronget against them and each of them can give you a certain 
 boost in your stats that can, once again, fit your type of gameplay. Its a must play and a classic 
 just like system shock 2, they did a great job and its a real sucess for FPS fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPlow69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  What happens when games creator are able to bring a whole universe to life, fear, exitement, graphics 
 and originality? You get a great and immersive gameplay, you get a game that you'll remember and 
 will become a benchmark for the years to come. Next time you'll be playing a FPS, you'll be remembering 
 some particularity of this game. Bioshock place you in a undersea city created from what could 
 described with : A world without scientific ethics. The creators managed to input a Good/Evil decision 
 making system in the game that can fit your gameplay wich shape your character and the story at 
 the same time. This game made me miss system shock 2 and these old days of gaming where a good 
 game wasn't just about looking good. It brought the same climate of horror that the first resident 
 evil benched on the playstation back in the days. Without keeping you out of the story, the game 
 got some nice implented features like weapons customization and power-ups and added a picture reasearch 
 (wich was way better then the original tedious chemical thing that was in system shock 2) . So encountering 
 the same ennemy over and over makes you stronget against them and each of them can give you a certain 
 boost in your stats that can, once again, fit your type of gameplay. Its a must play and a classic 
 just like system shock 2, they did a great job and its a real sucess for FPS fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TryDaBeardON
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  
  Bioshock was one of the games I knew I was going to buy after building the new rig, and for 30 
 bucks it seemed like a very good deal. And it was, I guess, although it wasn't entirely what I 
 expected.
  
  According to most reviews I had read and paid attention to (meaning those not proclaiming it to 
 be either the second coming or the worst game ever) Bioshock was supposed to be a very good, atmospheric 
 game focused on telling the story with a somewhat mediocre FPS side. The main problems, aside from 
 the technical glitches, were reportedly related to how weak the weapons were and how easy the game 
 was overall due to the vita-chambers and lack of death penalty. Well, I love a good story, so I 
 was sold. And here's what I think.
  
  Yes, the game truly is gorgeous. The idea of a huge underwater city as a set for a game is a brilliant 
 one, and with Unreal Engine 3 in hand beautifully realized. Rapture is probably the most aesthetically 
 pleasing indoor environment I've ever had to defile with gore. Yes, the water is crazy good and 
 it's everywhere. If Bubba from Forest Gump had visited Rapture, he would tell you that there's 
 standing water, flowing water, dripping water, frozen water, boiling water, water in sinks and 
 toilets and bathtubs, water in streams, water in torrents, water in waterfalls The only thing 
 that seems to be missing is bottled water, but there's plenty of kinds of bottled "fire-water," 
 which will replenish a little of your health and sometimes make you drunk.
  
  The sounds - of water and otherwise - are also awesome. Even if the first glimpse at Rapture through 
 the batisphere's window does not make it clear enough for you that your adventure is not going 
 to involve a lot of personages from The Little Mermaid, the sounds you'll hear soon after the blood-spattered 
 door opens to let you out will quickly do the job. Rapture is not a cheerful place, unless you 
 find insane asylums cheerful.
  
  And it's as much an "insane asylum" as an "asylum for the insane," and this is where the story 
 comes in, and this is also where my opinion of the story - the supposed main strength of the game 
 - begins to differ from that of most critics.
  
  The main problem I have with Bioshock's story: there basically isn't one for the first three quarters 
 of the game. Not the one in the normal sense, anyway. Yes, you find a bunch of conveniently placed 
 tape recorders and you travel through the city, but all of them tell the story of Rapture before 
 you got there. In books it's called "the background." It's what the main story is supposed to be 
 set against, not be replaced by. And this, I feel, is what's wrong with Bioshock. All of it already 
 happened. The story you participate in consists of following voice communications to go from one 
 point on the map to the other, because supposedly that will help you uh get out of Rapture? But 
 you just got there. It's true that the much-talked-about "twist" will reveal and explain a lot 
 of it, but it comes rather late, and I, personally, wasn't terribly excited by it at that point. 
 Especially since the story, once it truly takes shape, reveals plenty of cracks and incoherencies. 
 Throw in the fact that there are basically no non-hostile NPCs in the entire city (or they cheesily 
 die immediately prior to meeting you in person) and I was left with a feeling of loneliness and 
 "work" I thought was gone for good from (high-concept) FPS gaming when Valve released original 
 Half-Life. In short, the storytelling technique here did not work for me at all. 
  
  Now the combat wasn't bad. Some weapons are noticeably weak, but AI is decent, and plasmids - genetic 
 mods you augment your body with - are fun and inventive. Photo-research is also an interesting 
 feature, as are hacking and looting. However, the lack of enemy variety is visible, especially 
 when the same enemies become, inexplicably, harder to kill in later levels, despite your photo-research, 
 which should have "increased" your damage against them. The big daddies, contrastingly, are pretty 
 brutal in early levels but become easier to kill as you progress through the game. In case you 
 still don't know, the Big Daddies are Mutated Cows dressed in retro diver suits. They are heavily 
 armed and guard the little girls gathering something called "Adam" from corpses lying around the 
 city. They won't attack you first, but you can't very well get too far without "Adam" yourself, 
 so you'll have to take them on. That's where the vita-chambers come in.
  
  Basically, when you die, you immediately get resurrected with no penalty in the nearest vita-chamber. 
 Vita chambers are big humming glass cylinder thingies, placed throughout Rapture, for the sole 
 purpose, apparently, of resurrecting you, since they don't work on splicers or any other dead Rapturians 
 littering the streets. Aside from being uh, a little out of character, shall we say, vita chambers 
 did not bother me as much as some other critics, since their function is only marginally different 
 from QuickSave-QuickLoad routine we would be employing otherwise. There's a version (post-patch, 
 I think) , in which you can disable the vita chambers for added difficulty, but with combat balanced 
 as it is, I would not advise it.
  
  When you kill your first big Daddy you will have a choice of either harvesting or rescuing the 
 Little Sister, and I can tell you that rescuing one is truly one of brighter spots in the game, 
 with all the immersion and zeal you might have been losing up until then coming back for about 
 five glorious seconds, during which you really feel a part of something and that you have done 
 something really good. Harvesting them instead gives you more Adam, but I'm not sure if the trade-off 
 is worth it, as I haven't tried it. 
  
  To wrap up: Bioshock is a tremendous artistic achievement, but as a game it's not my bottle of 
 Chechnya Vodka. It's already uninstalled from my machine. Still, you probably can't go wrong with 
 it for 30 bucks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARRAEEee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Nicest water ever? well, yep a combination of reflection, refraction, multiple animating maps and 
 other technical witchcraft I don't understand means Bioshock's got the best salty glug eve to slosh 
 around inside your telly. And you'll be seeing plenty of it the entire game's set in a pressurised 
 city under the sea, which means every knackered seam or broken window squirts the wet stuff, adding 
 to the rotten look of the game.
  That is hardly the only unique visual touch to this atmospheric shooter, though. For a start, thanks 
 to the entire cite being in a state of decay, every thing's got a knackered, jury rigged look to 
 it one sentry gun we saw, for instance, was simply a machine gun tied to an office chair. The alternative 
 1940s setting means the architecture's designed with an emphasis on art deco, whit plenty comedy 
 adverts scattered around . And, most importantly, the fact that virtually every living creature 
 in the city's now addicted to super drug Adam means you'll be en counting all sorts of weird mutants 
 on your plod through the murk.
  Another interesting feature is the intelligence of the various life forms you'll encounter . Most 
 are just trying to fend for themselves in the collapsing city, so if you leave them alone they 
 won't bother you although they could be carrying stuff you want. 
  Little Sister, for instance, are the tiny girls who carry drugs you need to power yourself up buy 
 they're protected by huge, temperamental monsters known as Big Daddies. they'll attack if they 
 feel threatened , but can also use this to your advantage by luring other enemies into attack them, 
 say. 
  As in their previous games, Irrational are aiming to let you make all the pivotal decisions as 
 explore the ruined city of Rapture, listening to people's diaries and notes and trying to work 
 out what exactly went wrong. after all, Rapture might have some of the nicest water ever seen, 
 but you don't want to spend your life down there do you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyberpixie
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  Previously, on Citadel Station:
  
  You've fought your way down through the Medical Level, surviving your first Cyborg Assassins and 
 cautiously exploring the Cyborg conversion chambers. Suddenly you come to an opening looking out 
 into a larger room, there's a drop of at least 3m and a platform to take you down. You're suddenly 
 at red alert, a huge Cyborg Warrior is standing guard, its twisted flesh and metal body groans 
 as it sees you. You duck into cover, quickly pulling out your Magpulse, setting it to maximum power, 
 praying you have the firepower to take this thing down. Diving out, you start lacerating the monster 
 with the deadly laser beam, a harsh streak cuts through the battle as the weapon begins to overheat. 
 Fortunately the Cyborg's weapon arm explodes first and it collapses face down with a sickening 
 crunch.
  Breathing hard from the lighting strike battle, you ride the platform down. To your left the room 
 leads to some sort of control room, probably with the Control Node you need to destroy. Checking 
 your health and weapon, you stride confidently to the entrance. 
  Suddenly, a piercing hiss of static is transmitted via your Cyber Implants. An inhuman voice, but 
 unmistakably female, slurs and stutters out the words, 
  
  "Enter that room, insect, and it will become your grave." 
  
  A shiver goes up your spine, 
 you hesitate in the door way, looking around for danger like a frightened rabbit. Was the threat 
 real? Seconds pass, as you weigh up the odds. Gripping the mouse you gingerly step forward. 
  All hell breaks loose.
  
  Oh Shodan, how I miss you.
  
  
  BioShock, is Ken Levine's most 
 recent title, the spiritual successor to the cult FPS/RPG System Shock 2, developed by the late 
 Irrational Games (now 2K Boston/2K Australia) and Looking Glass Studios. System Shock 2 was a direct 
 sequel to the original System Shock released in 1994 which is widely considered to be the benchmark 
 for intelligent first-person gaming and has influenced the design of countless other games. Now, 
 I don't know about you but considering the nature of reviewing and the gaming industry, comparisons 
 are inevitable and logical. You can't rationally analyse a media or subject without having other 
 results to differentiate with. If you have a problem with me relating BioShock to SS1 or SS2 I'm 
 sorry, but I'm a scientific lad, and that's just the way it is.
  
  On first impressions, BioShock is light-years away from its older siblings. Set in an alternate 
 history 1960, the game takes place in a previously utopian underwater city which is now populated 
 with unspeakably deformed humans and deadly steam-punk inspired machines. You play as Jack, the 
 sole survivor of a plane crash at sea, now trapped in the now dystopian city fighting for his life. 
 The setting is a unique, incredibly conceived location and is easily the most impressive aspect 
 of BioShock. The opening of the game while being one of the most memorable and intense of any computer 
 game, is also gob smackingly beautiful, almost beyond words. The city is laid out before you as 
 a rail guided submarine auto pilots you to an unknown location. Huge art deco style, Metropolis 
 like towers loom from the seabed, with numerous tunnels linking sections together. Neon signs and 
 other advertisements clamber for you attention as shoals of fish pulse between squids and other 
 sea life. The submarine docks, the lights flicker, violence ensues, welcome to Rapture.
  
  Inside, the incredible visuals continue to out stand. The art style of the game has clearly been 
 worked on for more man hours than I can imagine. The era has been faithful reconstructed from the 
 carpets and lamps, to the wallpaper and posters. Not that it's perfect, far from. Ratpure is collapsing 
 in on itself, the walls are war ravaged, water gushes from broken pipes flooding rooms, corpses 
 litter the floors and hang from ceilings. Water has never been seen or felt like this in a game, 
 it's everywhere and completely devoted to claiming back its seabed. It runs down the walls pooling 
 on the floors of bars, spurts out of smashed toilets, steams down stairs and even breaks a tunnel 
 flooding it spectacularly. Nothing in the game world has been neglected; every crumbling wall, 
 gushing water pipe and bloody smear has been lovingly placed. Walking through Raputre is a feast 
 for the eyes with beautiful statues, strange machines and even stranger inhabitants. Mutated humans 
 scavenge the rotting halls for anything, in particular ADAM (the resource needed to buy new plasmids, 
 the games only RPG element) . The atmosphere is dark and oppressive with shafts of neon light glowing 
 eerily from thick windows, highlighting scenes of unspeakable horror. Exploring Rapture is a creepy, 
 lonely experience intensified by an excellent ambient soundtrack worthy of its SS heritage, with 
 creaking walls from the intense pressure of the sea, echoing service announcements, twisted steam 
 driven machines and the haunting muttering words of its insane dwellers. Period pieces being played 
 from phonographs both original and new add massively to creating this oppressive world and adding 
 even more layers to this rather grim, but tasty visual/audio treat.
  
  Thankfully, BioShock has more to offer than just pretty graphics but also serves up a decent plot 
 with fleshed out characters. Ayn Rand's Atlas Shrugged has clearly made a large impact on Ken Levine, 
 her objectivist philosophies are rife through the basis of the game world and plot. This comes 
 across not only through the main story line, but in the game world; ammo vending machines, products 
 of a free market gone mad and the symbolic relationship between the Big Daddys and Little Sisters 
 to point out a few. The main plot is advanced through action and radio communications (emails) 
 from other characters in the game world. As in SS, the history of Rapture is learned through audio 
 recordings (e-journals) and occasional dramatisations of specific events through ghostly apparitions. 
 So far so SS, with main difference being that the seeking of these audio logs is rarely needed 
 to progress the game. Sure, you get the odd password, but they're not there as a practical device, 
 they're there for people more interested in the story. On the most part they are extremely well 
 voice acted, you really get a real sense of the characters and a snippet, some times more, of their 
 experiences of Rapture. The intricacies of the many stories of people that lived in Rapture each 
 with their own hopes and fears are unfurled extraordinarily for those interested in the history 
 and the commentary of objectivism. There are also many more opportunities for meeting these people 
 face to face, unlike SS2 which is an interesting tweak to the formula. These meetings often provoke 
 a stronger emotional response than if you'd been face to face during the interactions leading to 
 it. The writing is also pretty good, with some of them achieving the terrifying heights of SS2, 
 my personal favourite involving a Big Daddy and a scientist
  
  However, my praise is going to be taking a trip down, straight into the inky blackness of space, 
 or maybe up, or left, depends how you look at it. Let's get this straight out in the open, BioShock 
 gameplay is severally lacking in imagination. There, I said it. Justification? Right, here we go.
 
  Going back to SS2, gameplay and story were well mated. The game challenged you, questioned your 
 ability, struck you when you were least expecting it, pulled the rug from under your feet then 
 opened the trap door. It kept you on the edge of your seat, sweating and swearing in equal measure 
 as you crept along ghostly corridors, scaring the crap out of you with well placed monkeys. That's 
 how good it was. The RPG elements kept the shooting form getting stale, difficult choices had to 
 be made in regard to skills and tactics, spending of resources was never taken lightly, inventory 
 management and stashing loot in safe places was a guilty pleasure, and combat was avoided unless 
 it was absolutely required to advance.
  
  In BioShock, practically all of these game elements have been stripped out, leaving a rather skinny 
 looking thing, kind of like a sheep after sheering. Yes, indeed the game does have its fantastic 
 looks and sharp storyline with philosophical introspection for those that can be bothered pulling 
 it out, but they don't do enough to insulate the poor gameplay. Everything in BioShock is advanced 
 through shooting guns or plasmids (i. e. psi-powers or magic) , stealth is rarely an option, the 
 plasmids that help your stealth are fairly useless and the hiding in shadows mechanic is laughably 
 poor. This would be fine if the actual combat stood up to scrutiny, but it sadly doesn't. Combat 
 is a hollow and mostly dull affair with the exception of the wrench which makes a welcome appearance 
 from SS2. Whacking fools over the back of the head is remarkably satisfying, particularly with 
 the Frozen Field plasmid, but that's about it. The other weapons feel very "meh" and that includes 
 all of the plasmids. The rate of opportunities to employ tactics and stealth is low, with the exception 
 of the Big Daddys (basically boss's you can fight any time you feel like) were picking a good spot 
 for your fight and getting the upper hand makes a big difference, especially at the start of the 
 game. Hacking cameras and turrets to fight for you is generally handy but a total no brainer. There 
 are no costs or real risks to hacking other than that if you fail you might sound the alarm, or 
 get some health taken off you. Big deal, I have a full wallet, full med hypos and electric bolt, 
 bring it.
  
  Also, the mini-game which you initiate is probably up there with the top 10 worse mini-games including 
 Oblivion's persuade game and Teenage Zombies extra life game. You have to connect up the pipes 
 so that water can flow from one part to another. That's it. I swear, I started taking off my engineering 
 plasmids to give myself a challenge, and even then only messed up when you had to change the first 
 pipe straight away. Thing is, you didn't have to do it, the hacking I mean, but I just couldn't 
 help myself, even though I knew I'd achieve nothing other than wasted time, because my inventory 
 was full practically the whole time. I know the principle is that a civil war has been on and that 
 Rapture operates in a free market, sure ok, I can understand why there is ammo vending machines, 
 but I found myself tripping over ammo pretty much the whole game. There is definitely no aspect 
 of survival in BioShock, they practically hand feed you the whole way through, that is if you're 
 not turning yourself into a fat pie, stuffing your face full of cream buns and wine. Removing the 
 inventory was a slick thing to do for the console crowd but for crying out loud, making the character 
 eat anything in his path due to having no pockets is just silly, regardless of health. Oh, and 
 spending time choosing which plasmids, ammo to buy/create, weapon upgrades to pick is a complete 
 waste of time as by the end of the game you'll have all of them anyway, even if you have opted 
 to choose the moral high ground and not kill the Little Sisters. On that note, the AI and enemies 
 are not spectacular either. I remember hearing about BioShock years ago and got all excited about 
 an evolving game world with natural prey, workers and soldiers, instead we ended up with a very 
 static selection of bad guys and some bad ass BigDaddys guys. As you progress through the game, 
 Splicer will get stronger, become immune to certain types of attack (fire, lighting, ice etc) and 
 posses their own elemental attacks, but that's it. I mean come on. They are a horrendous looking 
 bunch and the Spider Splicers are pretty creepy to begin with. However, once you've got the anti-personal 
 bullets in high supply (so, like after the 2nd level) and you've done some research (i. e. taken 
 photos) you utter destroy them with one or two pistol rounds. For the record I was playing BioShock 
 on hard, I don't want to imagine what playing it on medium was like. The final boss of the game 
 was a push over and the end sequence (I saved all the Little Sisters) was sickenly sweet and left 
 me with a bad taste in my month.
  
  In relation to the final boss, I make my final point. My nostalgic description at the beginning 
 may have seemed a trifle pretentious and I realise this. However, it is important that I explain 
 this experience to realise my reasoning for this point. While the atmosphere in BioShock is dark 
 and oppressive and employs effective shock tactics and horror, the game itself and its villain 
 never deliver the frightening experience of the original SS or its younger sibling. It may seem 
 unfair to compare but considering how much of the gameplay is lifted directly from SS it would 
 be ignorant not to. The crux of the matter it that in BioShock, you play an almost super-human 
 killing machine facing an understandable and very human opponent. The game never puts you in any 
 real danger, you never really feel unsafe and vulnerable, it constantly replenishes your resources 
 and leads you by the nose through your visit of Rapture. The resident villain is twisted but ultimately 
 a known factor. You can understand the mind of your enemy and therefore any fear you have of him 
 evaporates. In SS however, you lived every minute in fear of Shodan and her creations. She was 
 an evil, twisted machine, an inhuman omnipresence and completely insane. You felt her presence 
 every were, taunting you, playing you as a cat does with a mouse, you had to survive not tour the 
 ship. BioShock attempts this with its incredible setting and villain but it never delivers. You 
 ultimately feel much more like a tourist, never truly feeling the immersion and sense of belonging 
 in the game world.
  
  All in all BioShock is not a bad game, by any stretch of the imagination. In actual fact, I really 
 enjoyed it despite its new streamlined feel but if it weren't for the extra content I kept pulling 
 out of it, I wouldn't have come back. It looks amazing, has wonderful art direction, boasts an 
 interesting plot with philosophical introspection, a brilliant soundtrack and it just drips with 
 atmosphere. It's just a pity that all of this brilliant work has been thrown over the now, rather 
 thin looking skeleton of what used to be SS2.
  
  "Look at you, hacker. A pathetic creature of meat and bone, panting and sweating as you run through 
 my corridors. How can you challenge a perfect, immortal machine?"
  
  She's got a point.
  
  8/10
  
  - Niall Macdonald 14/09/08 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shorty_wTF
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  BioShock is a first-person shooter video game by 2K Boston/2K Australia-previously known as Irrational 
 Games [11] -designed by Ken Levine. The game is available for the Windows operating system and the 
 Xbox 360 video game console. [3] It was released on August 21, 2007, in North America, and three 
 days later in Europe and Australia. [12] On May 28, 2008, 2K Games confirmed that a PlayStation 
 3 version of the game is in development by 2K Marin, and will be released on October 21, 2008 in 
 North America and October 24, 2008 internationally [13] with some additional features. [1] A version 
 of the game for mobile platforms is currently being developed by IG Fun. [14]
  
  Set in an alternate history 1960, the game places the player in the role of a plane crash survivor 
 named Jack, who must explore the underwater dystopian city of Rapture, and survive attacks by the 
 mutated beings and mechanical drones that populate it. The game incorporates elements found in 
 role-playing and survival horror games, and is described by the developers and Levine as a "spiritual 
 successor" to their previous titles in the System Shock series. [15] [16]
  
  The game received overwhelmingly positive reviews, and ranks as the thirteenth best video game 
 on Game Rankings based on reviews from critics. [17] [18] It was particularly well-reviewed in the 
 mainstream press where its "morality-based" storyline, immersive environment and Ayn Rand-inspired 
 dystopic back-story were all singled out for praise. [19] BioShock has been praised for providing 
 "an entirely new tool through which to explore philosophy, psychology, and morality." [
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jospark
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Given the tremendous hype surrounding the game, alot of it is well deserved, but some of it has 
 fallen short.
  
  Most prominently, the game does appear to be an artistic masterpiece. This aspect of the game deserves 
 all the hype. The graphics are lustrously detailed. There are no drab textures here. The art direction 
 and graphics/animation work deserves kudos for creativity, detail, and quality.
  
  Installation from disc was a bit problematic. An internet connection is required to install the 
 game. During installation, after the lengthy copy process finishes, a window pops up saying that 
 it is trying to download updates. I got an error saying it was unable to contact the update server 
 -- With some research and troubleshooting found out it was because my firewall blocked some port. 
 If I hit 'cancel' for the download, the entire install was canceled, requiring the lengthy copy 
 process to be repeated. Temporarily disabling the firewall solved the problem. This could have 
 gone smoother or at least the error message could have been more helpful.
  
  In terms of gameplay, I was expecting it to be better than System Shock 2. I'm a big fan of FP-RPG 
 elements. And there, it has fallen a little short of the high-bar set by SS2, in terms of replay 
 value and gameplay:
  On normal difficulty, I was able to get nearly every great weapon upgrade, and nearly all the powerful 
 plasmid and tonic upgrades. While there was a really nifty stealth tonic acquired in the middle, 
 playing with "thief"-style tactics didn't work out too well. It was basically kill all the crazy 
 people, mash the fire button, and run and gun or blast w/powers throughout. The strategy elements 
 in the game seemed to turn out to be a bit over-rated, especially after you figure out optimal 
 ways to ambush or lay-traps for the Big Daddies. After all that, there really wasn't much reason 
 to replay the game.
  
  Gameplay 8.5
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 9
  Story/Characters: 7
  Technical: 9 
  Installation: 2
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I think I'll go with the Gamespot score for this one. That's 9. Giving it 9.5 would be ignoring 
 some of its imperfections and it definetely does not deserve less than 9.
  
  All in all, Bioshock has a great storyline and you become a part of the game, although things could 
 have been done better so that you feel more immersed in the game, but as it stands it is more than 
 satisfactory. 
  
  The drawbacks are some repetitivness - not much though as the game ends before it becomes too repetitive, 
 easy bosses and unexplained story ending and beginning. Namely, the game ends very simply with 
 3 possible different endings although 2 are exactly the same so in actual fact there is only the 
 good and the bad ending, depending on your choice whether to harvest or to save the little sisters.
 
  
  So, the end is a bit disappointing as we get really no information about our character and we cannot 
 feel a connection with him as all we see is his arm and don't know much about him unfortunately.
 
  
  It could be that the developers left this like that because of the sequel that will probably be 
 a prequel to Bioshock, so we may get more information then, but it nonetheless adds to the negative 
 aspects of the game.
  
  Having said this, the good aspects most definetely outweigh the bad ones. There are many original 
 ideas and a lot of borrowed stuff from other games and successfully incorporated. The graphics 
 are superb and the storyline absolutely great if you follow it.
  
  So, let's get to the marks:
  
  
  
  Graphics: 9/10 - really really really excellent, although 
 there were not many places with the WOW effect or vista points of view over a horizon or something 
 similar as this was an indoor game.
  
  Controls: 10/10 - easy, not complications at all
  
  Immersiveness: 8/10 - it is a relatively short game but there is enough time to immerse in 
 it. You do feel a part of the game but the mere fact that you are all alone in the game and everyone 
 could be your enemy, and that everyone is insane around you trying to kill you (almost everyone) 
 keeps this game at a shooter level and not an RPG.
  
  
  Bugs: 10/10 - Single crash and once I got stuck and could not move, but that's all.
  
  Voices: 
 9/10 - Very well done. Voice simulating the 1940's to 1960's. 
  
  Sounds: 9.5/10 - many ranging sounds and all well done, but I'm not giving it complete 10 because 
 there are too many noises sometimes when you are trying to listen to what a voice on the radio 
 is tyring to say
  
  Storyline: 8/10 excellent storyline, although as described above, it could have been done better.
 
  
  Length: 7/10 - I played it for 3 days and I'm a slow player who likes to investigate every corner 
 of a level.
  
  Music: 9/10 nice
  
  Difficulty: 8/10 - the game is fairly easy, which is the way I like them (on normal difficulty) . 
 Bosses should have been harder though and made me use different weapons not just a gun.
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay overall which combines all these aspects means that the game deserves 9/10. 
 It is very well done. Some things are missing, like a slightly better storyline with more explanations, 
 more connecting with the character and surroudnings, perhaps sneaking upon enemies but overall 
 these are only small improvements that could have been made, not actual failures because other 
 aspects of the game more than compensate and make the game on the borderline of brilliant and legendary. 
 I'm afraid I do not think it is legendary because compared to other games which gave me more worth 
 for my money, Bioshock remains just a brilliant game, but a hell of a brilliant game.
  
  
  
  Overall: 9 / 10
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
 
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else good to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing 
 to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 since if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life. This applies unless I really am impressed 
 with a game and this game is impressive and will stay in my memory as a good game but not one of 
 my legendary games, like the Witcher, FarCry, Mafia, GTA etc 
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Is a man not entitled to the sweat of his own brow? That's the question you'll be greeted with 
 as you first enter Rapture, where great ideas and visions were once contemplated, but the very 
 men and women behind those ideas proved to be the end of that city. It's a place that was envisioned 
 to be heaven on earth, but instead it turned into a living hell. And in Bioshock, it'll be your 
 playground, where you'll attempt to uncover the mysteries behind it's downfall, fight for your 
 life against the remaining mentally deranged inhabitants of the city, as well as debate on the 
 moral implications of turning yourself into a larger than life human being. Though not without 
 it's faults, Bioshock is an incredible game that features a fantastically well written and unique 
 storyline that will constantly surprise and probably even challenge your own personal beliefs, 
 as well as a deeply immersive gameworld that's practically begging to be explored.
  
  In Bioshock you play the role of a nameless man (at first, eventually more information about him 
 is revealed) , who happens to be the sole survivor of a plane crash in the ocean that coincidentally 
 (or not?) took place near a lighthouse that signals the entrance to the underwater city of Rapture. 
 At first you'll be treated to some spectacular views of Rapture, as well as a brief introduction 
 by Andrew Ryan, the mastermind behind Rapture, but the minute you actually enter the city you'll 
 notice that Rapture has seen better days. It won't be long before your first encounter with a Splicer, 
 the mutated inhabitants of Rapture that have experimented too much with genetic modification and 
 are now mentally insane and ready to kill anyone who steps into their path. What's worst, you won't 
 have anything in the means of self defense so it's now you by yourself stuck in a torn city with 
 lunatics on the lurk.
  
  You will have a guide of sorts however, as some mysterious man named Atlas will contact you via 
 a Radio and attempt to help you get out of the location you're in so that you in return can help 
 him rescue his family. Though at first it doesn't make sense why this man is helping you or how 
 he managed to contact you, everything will be explained later on. In fact, one of the best things 
 (or worst, depending on your point of view) about Bioshock is how the story will unfold little 
 by little. You will encounter numerous audio diaries scattered through the city that will reveal 
 small tidbits about the history of Rapture, its many characters, and the events that unfolded prior 
 to its downfall.
  
  There really is a lot of story to digest here and it can be really easy to miss out on a lot of 
 Rapture's background if you don't dig deep for those diaries. It won't be quite clear what was 
 on everyone's agenda, and you'll have to make the most of Atlas' help, but it will be very clear 
 that morality wasn't much of an issue here and that most everyone's intentions on Rapture weren't 
 exactly pure. Every character in Bioshock is truly memorable and the story is carefully woven so 
 that it manages to keep you in a state of suspense where you simply must know what happens next. 
 And while I'm not going to spoil anything, there's a certain twist in Bioshock that is truly masterful. 
 Though part of that twist can be foreseen, the other part is just shocking and I was honestly in 
 a state of "WTF?" for several moments after it happened. This is one story you won't soon forget.
 
  
  As you explore Rapture, it will be clear enough that in order to survive, you will have to mutate 
 yourself. In order to do so you'll need to acquire all sorts of plasmid powers and gene tonics. 
 The plasmids will give you supernatural abilities like shooting fire, ice, or electric blasts from 
 your hand, while the tonics will enhance your regular abilities. But to get them you need to gather 
 a substance called Adam. Adam will not just be your currency to obtain plasmids and tonics, but 
 it will also be the source of a moral dilemma. Adam can only be found on the bodies of little girls 
 roaming around the city, affectionately called Little Sisters, who will always be accompanied the 
 big bruising Big Daddy, a genetic freak of a different kind. The Little Sisters themselves can't 
 be dealt with without you killing the Big Daddy first, something that won't be easy. But even more 
 difficult will be the decision to kill the Little Sister so that you can obtain the maximum amount 
 of Adam, or save her and only obtain half of the aforementioned Adam. It's a tough choice where 
 regardless of your decision, there will be good and bad consequences, and will also determine the 
 cutscene you get at the end of the game.
  
  But while genetically enhancing yourself is a priority, you'll also have plenty of conventional 
 means of defense, or in other words, a full arsenal of weapons. Most of the weapons are the standard 
 fare of modern FPS games, but given that the game takes place in the 60s (and Rapture itself was 
 built in the 40s) , some of them are of the post WWII era, like the revolver, submachine gun, and 
 shotgun. Others however will sport a rudimentary homemade look, such as the grenade launcher and 
 the chemical thrower, the reason for it being that weapons weren't actually permitted in Rapture 
 and the citizens had to make do with most of their trash to craft more powerful weapons. Also, 
 there will be multiple types of ammo for each weapon, which will vary depending on the weapon, 
 and each type of ammo will prove of particular use during specific situations.
  
  Unfortunately enjoying all this weapons will prove to be tough, because if there's one flaw in 
 Bioshock is the combat. It just never manages to feel right. Part of this has to do with the fact 
 that your weapons need to be upgraded as your progress through the game, which means that at first 
 they will be very weak and it'll be hard to take out multiple Splicers. For instance, at first 
 the shotgun might as well be substituted by a peashooter since it takes multiple close range shots 
 to bring down an enemy. The revolver itself won't be of much help either. To make matters worse, 
 the Splicers move very fast which makes accurate aiming almost impossible. In order to survive 
 during the early stages you need to make smart use of both your plasmids and your weapons. But 
 this is also something of a chore because unlike other recent FPS games (Crysis, F. E. A. R., Call 
 of Duty) , Bioshock goes the old school way of allowing you to carry every weapon at the same time. 
 Managing eight weapons as well as switching to plasmids on the fly as you get charged on by splicers 
 is a hectic task. I really think Bioshock could've benefited by limiting the amount of weapons 
 you could carry at once. Though not awful or too detrimental to the experience, the combat really 
 isn't the star of the show.
  
  And there's also the issue of the Vita-Chambers. Though their purpose in the game is to make things 
 easier for you, personally I hated them. Every time you die you will respawn at the nearest chamber 
 which means there's no death penalty aside from taking a few steps back to your previous location. 
 But while I appreciate the effort on part of the developers, I just felt the chambers to be detrimental 
 to the experience since they reduced the tension of battles and effectively killed any challenge. 
 I also felt it affected the level of immersion, since it was jarring to only see yourself get resurrected 
 at the chambers and not any of the Splicers. Of course, you can always ignore the chambers and 
 load up a previous save game which is the route I chose to take. To the game's credit, though not 
 explained at first, there is a very rational explanation as to why you're the only one who can 
 use the chambers (I actually found that answer on an FAQ, but it appears to be something that's 
 mentioned in the game) .
  
  However the deeper you immerse yourself in Rapture, the easier it'll be to forgive Bioshock's few 
 faults. Rapture is an incredibly absorbing gameworld, where you won't want to miss a single thing. 
 Despite being a broken city, the place just feels alive and you can almost hear the walls cry stories 
 of the tragedies that have taken place here. You'll get to explore most of the city during your 
 main quest, but certain areas require that you stray from the path. Deep exploration is rewarded, 
 since some of the hardest items to find in the game are located in places you won't be forced to 
 go through should you stick to the main objectives. Among this rewards can be audio diaries, hard 
 to get plasmids or gene tonics, rare ammo, or plenty of spare cash. Some of the most bizarre sights 
 will also be found in hidden areas. 
  
  Money plays an important role in the game since there will be plenty of vending machines scattered 
 everywhere where you can buy health items, ammo, or Eve powerups (whereas Adam allows you to obtain 
 plasmids, Eve functions as the "ammo" for your plasmids) . You can even have plenty of fun hacking 
 those vending machines to obtain discounts on the items as well as access to previously unavailable 
 ones. It's also possible to hack gun turrets, cameras, safes, etc. The hacking minigame consists 
 of rearranging a set of circuit tubes to make the charge flow from one point to another. It's a 
 very simple game at first but eventually some tubes will be broken while others will be replaced 
 by alarms that will release attacking bots on you should they be triggered, forcing you to think 
 fast as you rearrange the tubes in a proper way. Strangely, in the latter stages of the game there 
 will be occasions where hacking a certain puzzle will be impossible due to the way the tubes are 
 arranged. It's a relatively minor issue, but it can be frustrating. If hacking puzzles isn't up 
 your alley, you can bypass them with autohacking devices or with money.
  
  Aside from being an incredibly immersive game, Bioshock is a feast for the senses. The art direction 
 behind the design of Rapture is simply astonishing. There's just so much detail in it that you'll 
 want to sometimes just stand back and enjoy the views (as dark and grimm as they may be) . Whether 
 you're in the forests of Arcadia, the casinos and theaters of Fort Frolic, the boiler rooms of 
 Hephaestus, you'll always be treated to something different and spectacular. It also helps that 
 Bioshock is powered by a modified version of the Unreal Engine 3. Though not as cutting edge as 
 other games, the technical aspect of the visuals in Bioshock is without a fault. Ok, maybe you 
 could complain about the bodies of people having a bit of a plastic look, but it's something that 
 actually helps them look creepier.
  
  And the sounds of Rapture are even more disturbing and delightful. The voice acting is masterful 
 and it really manages to sell the story. You won't go long in Rapture without hearing deranged 
 Splicers talking to themselves (twisted things nonetheless) or singing (which is even creepier) , 
 and there will always be plenty of moans or bizarre sounds emanating from the city to comfort you 
 in. And nothing will be more intimidating than hearing a Big Daddy walking just around the corner.
 
  
  Though Bioshock doesn't quite nail it when it comes to the shooting aspect, it delivers on all 
 other accounts. Between a deeply immersive gameworld, plenty of character customization options, 
 a terrific and intriguing story, and delightfully twisted characters, Bioshock is a true masterpiece. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endofzeworld
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  If you're the kind of player who likes to take games at face value and run through them as quickly 
 as possible, you'll likely enjoy Bioshock for its entertaining gameplay and fantastic graphics, 
 but you'll miss so much more that can only be discover if you spend the time to look beneath the 
 surface. Bioshock has an inner beauty that tells a story of its own, and at times is a sort of 
 social commentary. The level of detail in this game is spectacular, and a thorough player may spend 
 hours delving into the expansive corridors of Rapture, looking to learn more about the once-great 
 society that thrived there.
  
  At first, Bioshock appears to be a story about a city that went crazy and fell into anarchy, and 
 you have to wade through it to get out. Summed up in that manner, it sounds similar to another 
 Doom or Half-Life. But in Bioshock, someone didn't just open up a portal and accidentally let all 
 these crazy people in to wreak havoc. A little over a year before the protagonist, Jack arrived 
 in Rapture, the city was relatively peaceful. Though it hadn't reached an Orwellian dystopia-like 
 state, it was not the utopia Andrew Ryan had originally envisioned either. Corrupted by power, 
 Ryan slowly transformed his position as mayor into a dictatorship, enforcing martial law throughout 
 the streets and locking himself away behind a wall of security measures due to his fear of possible 
 assassination. Ryan's actions were primarily due to the heightening power of Frank Fontaine, entrepreneur 
 of the genetic modifications industry. Because of Ryan's actions, Fontaine developed into a sort 
 of revolutionary, building an army of genetically modified "splicers" in order to combat Ryan. 
 The vicious cycle of escalation eventually led to Fontaine's death and the rise of the mysterious 
 Atlas, resistance fighter and champion of the people. Atlas' underground resistance changed into 
 full-on rebellion on New Year's Eve 1958, with an explosive terrorist-like attack. This led to 
 the beginning of a civil war in Rapture, as citizens began splicing excessively in order to protect 
 themselves, and were eventually driven insane by the addiction.
  
  This sets the scene for the time when Jack sets foot in Rapture, only to see the charred remains 
 of a once-great city. As you play through the game, evidence of the conflict that occurred is everywhere, 
 from bloody corpses, to the voice recordings of the citizens, to the cracked glass that's slowly 
 letting in the ocean around you. While many first person shooters are designed to invoke emotions 
 such as fear, anger, anxiousness, and excitement, the emotion I felt most often throughout Bioshock 
 was sadness. I detected it primarily in Olympus Heights, the area of Rapture where most of the 
 citizens' living quarters were housed. In exploring the dark corners of Mercury Suites and Hestia 
 Chambers, it suddenly hit me that this wasn't just another battleground environment for the Rapture 
 civil war. This was where people had lived there lives and raised their families. It was here that 
 the deeper meaning of Bioshock truly revealed itself to me. It was when I saw Anna Culpepper's 
 body, still lying in the bathtub where she had been murdered, or the body lying against a bathroom 
 wall spattered in blood with a tommy gun lying on the ground next to it, looking as if it had been 
 the victim of a drive-by shooting by the Italian mafia. One of the most moving scenes I found was 
 a house where I found a coffee table with couches on both sides and a TV at the end. On one couch 
 sat a man and a women, dead, and on the other sat two young girls, also dead. At first glance, 
 this scene would appear to be just like any other; victims of the violent killings that had become 
 so rampant in Rapture. But as I looked closer, I realized that this scene told a different story. 
 There was no blood on or around the bodies, the TV was on, and there was food laid out on the table. 
 The members of this family hadn't been killed; they'd committed suicide. They had probably just 
 been sitting down to eat dinner and watch TV, but the parents had poisoned the food, taking the 
 lives of the whole family. Why had they done this? Most likely, they did it because they were scared 
 of their family being killed by splicers, and they just couldn't continue their lives with that 
 kind of fear. Either that or the parents were afraid of their daughters being kidnapped and turned 
 into little sisters. This is also reminiscent of Marista Lutz and her husband, who, upon discovering 
 that their daughter had been turned into a little sister, committed suicide in each other's arms.
 
  
  While some gamers may find these sad stories to simply be fluff to supplement the plotline, these 
 side stories are what the game is truly about. They add such depth to the game that an incredibly 
 immersive world that actually causes the player to feel, something few games can lay claim to being 
 able to do. This is makes playing Bioshock such a beautiful experience, something that could easily 
 be repeated if that's your particular brand of vodka.
  
  Lastly, I'd like to add a note on the issue of Vita-Chambers. This feature was highly criticized 
 as making the game too easy, as enemies would retain damage each time you were revived. However, 
 a patch was released that allows Vita-Chambers to be disabled (and even if they are enabled, you 
 aren't required to use them; you can just load a savegame when you die) . However, on the hardest 
 difficulty, Vita-Chambers are almost essential at times (the first big daddy you fight in the Medical 
 Pavilion is virtually impossible to beat without dying at least once) , so they don't make the game 
 super-easy, they just make it manageable. In the end, the use of Vita-Chambers is the players choice. 
 A player could choose to run around with nothing but the wrench, dying over and over just because 
 they can, or they could try to play through the game using Vita-Chambers as little as possible, 
 if at all. You can choose to use Vita-Chambers in the same way you can choose to use cheat codes 
 in so many other games to make yourself invincible. Video games -- especially first person shooters, 
 from Doom to Doom 3-- have always had cheat codes, and yet not a single one has been criticized 
 because they give the player the option to have no consequence of death. Why Bioshock gets so much 
 flak for the Vita-Chambers, I can't fathom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peltz999
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Story: Average
  Immersion: Very good
  Graphics: The visuals combined with the settings create a fantastic atmosphere.
  Difficulty: 
 Variable.
  
  Rapture: Remember this is a place where people used to live, its not supposed to be scary by default. 
 The devs have gone to a great length to make every place look a bit different. Not once did i feel 
 like, "Hey, i've been here already." 
  
  Moments to remember: Seeing a big daddy maul a splicer and setting someone on fire and then watch 
 them dive into water.
  
  Bioshocks biggest succeeding: It manages to attract people with a wide variety of skill. Yes the 
 game isn't that difficult but the game leaves you artistic freedom which you cant find in most 
 shooters. You can craft insanly complex traps and surprises for your targets. If the game is played 
 like an ordinary shooter then a large chunk of the game remains unseen.
  
  Where bioshock lacks is the main story itself. Its just weak. Sure the idea of an underwater city 
 is great but the story that drives the protagonist is just weak, the plot is also too predictable.
 
  
  In the end one has to keep in mind though is that this is just a shooter with a twist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toad1956
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  A very good game. The detail is incredible. The enemy AIs are smart and know when to seek first 
 aid. Some of the Boss are a little weak, but still challenging. The end boss is a real pain in 
 the butt and I have not seen a boss this challenging. The game visuals are unbelievable. Knowing 
 what weapons work the best on what AI character is important. 
  
  In the game you will meet Big Daddies they are all most Boss in there own right.
  
  The game 
 has a could morale story to it if you are interested in games with that component. The game is 
 like Deus Ex where you choose the road you will take.
  
  Things I did not like about the game was the VITA-CHAMBERS. It makes first aid kits pointless, 
 if you like dying lots of time. Also sometimes the enemy AI is a little bit to hard to kill. The 
 amount of enemy AI is another problem. Unlike other games the enemy AI will always be there, were 
 ever you are. They could only one or much more. This makes the game a lot faster then I liked. 
 I must though this makes the game far more changeling. 
  
  I highly recommend this game and recommend you added it to your First Person shooter game stock. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 3, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  Bioshock. Sound familiar? It probably does since this game is supposedly the #1 game of 2007 with 
 the most hype and praise. The lowest score this game got was an 8/10 from some website that no 
 one really cares about. The average score from reviewers was about a 9.5/10. Since this game is 
 so fantastic, why am I the only one that ends up hating it? But if why can everyone enjoy Bioshock 
 as a game? First off, I'll get the good things out of the way. Graphically, the game is quite stunning. 
 The water looks like you can practically reach out and touch it. Character models aren't quite 
 as good. The heads look mildly deformed and kind of freakish. The other good thing about the graphics 
 is the gore. I personally think it looks really nice. The game has some high quality shadowing 
 and lighting, but sometimes you'll encounter an area that's a bit overly dark. Adding to the visuals 
 is the audio. The voice work is great and occasionally gives a creepy feel to the game. The in-game 
 sound doesn't really stand out (except for the annoying sound of a slot machine) but it's pretty 
 solid. Bioshock really nailed the hammer down on the audiovisual presentation.
  And now for the game's faults. Former editor Jeff Gerstmann said, "Bioshock creates an amazing 
 world that you'll want to explore from top to bottom and a compelling mystery that slowly comes 
 together as you play." The only mystery I can't solve is why this game is so popular. The game 
 starts you off in a plane that mysteriously crashes in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean. You're 
 apparently the lone survivor, and there's a lighthouse in the distance. You swim up to it and then 
 take what's called a bathysphere, an elevator that takes you underwater to a city called Rapture, 
 created by someone named Andrew Ryan. Instead of doing something practical, like use the radio 
 you find in the first five minutes to signal for help, you decide to help a complete stranger named 
 Atlas who's trapped in Rapture. You soon find out that everything in the city is messed up.
  From there, there are a bunch of crazy people called Splicers, and even though they're friendly 
 to each other, they hate you for some reason and try their hardest to end your life as quickly 
 as possible. Along your way to finding out what's wrong with Rapture, you'll encounter turrets, 
 drug addicts and Big Daddies. The enemy AI is sometimes brain dead. Shouldn't they have figured 
 out that they shouldn't stand in a puddle of gasoline when the man they're trying to kill has an 
 arm that's on fire. And for the Big Daddies -- apparently they're the most unique part of the game 
 and the most fun. Despite the fact that the air is human friendly, they lock themselves up in a 
 costume that looks like an underwater astronaut. And even though they're human, they have a drill 
 built into their suit that's ready to drill into anyone who comes close to the little sister that's 
 with them. The whole point of the Big Daddies is to protect the little sisters. The point of the 
 little sisters is to extract the Atom from dead bodies, which is apparently something to help fuel 
 the people's addictions. Despite what everyone says about the Big Daddies, they're probably the 
 lamest enemy in the game.
  You'll have to set up traps that never really work, so you're better off shooting him repeatedly 
 for, like, five whole minutes with a shotgun or Thompson sub until he falls over. After that tedious 
 task is over, you'll have the ability to either harvest or rescue the little sister that's with 
 them. This is where the moral choice comes into play. If you choose to rescue her, you'll get less 
 Atom but supposedly feel good inside. If you harvest her, she turns into a slug and you get the 
 full Atom. The thing is, nobody cares! This is a video game! Little sisters aren't real! They're 
 just images on a TV in a fictional world that does not exist. All the people got addicted to technology 
 and have lost sense of humanity. But how the hell does squeezing their head remind them of reality? 
 The combat gets very repetitive. At one point it took me around 15 shotgun shells to kill an enemy 
 at close range while hitting him in the head. But do not fear, for the penalty of dying might as 
 well be a sad face across your screen. When you die, you respawn at the closest life chamber. There's 
 no cost to use these, so why not take out as many enemies as you desire using only you're wrench? 
 The game's mission design and difficulty level are quite poor. The game is all about its atmosphere 
 and how it makes you feel. The feeling I get from playing this game is boredom and instantaneous 
 rage. The atmosphere is supposed to be scary, but the only fear I had was getting a migraine from 
 wandering around an endless amount of hallways, doorways and stairs that all start to look the 
 same after a while. The weapons have a wide variety, ranging from a wrench, shotgun, pistol, machine 
 gun, grenade launcher, crossbow and flame thrower, and they're all considerably underpowered, except 
 for the wrench. Most of the weapons barely do any damage at all, so you'll often be using all your 
 ammo for a gun on just a couple of enemies.
  But you can also buy more ammo using the slot machines, but first you have to hack them. Hacking 
 is very frustrating, only adding to my migraine. While the majority of your guns are basically 
 useless, you also have what're called plasmids, which seem to be added into the game just to make 
 it feel like you're guns are actually doing something. Plasmids are basically like Pokemon attacks 
 except less effective. You have lighting, fire, ice, wind and rage, which makes the enemies attack 
 you. This is by far the most useless plasmid. Yeah, and you know what else makes them come after 
 you? Shooting them! The story in this game sucks, too. You'll also have to take research photos 
 of splicers and collect some radios, but who gives a damn about that? Andrew Ryan claims to be 
 a smart guy, but it's common sense that guns + drugs=bad. You're apparently some sort of clone 
 so that when Atlas or Andew Ryan say, "Would you kindly?" you have to obey them. This twist has 
 tricked people into thinking that the story in this game is actually good. Bioshock is not revolutionary, 
 it's not fun and it's not interesting. So, the reason this game is getting nines and tens is because 
 of it's crappy and confusing atmosphere that all looks the same that doesn't make any sense, mediocre 
 gameplay, an unbalanced difficulty setting, horrible level design that makes you feel lost all 
 the time, and a few tricks to make the game seem good when it's really a piece of crap. Don't get 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karthik1994
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is no ordinary first person shooter. It really tries to be different compared to other 
 first person shooter games and the storyline is the best. The voice acting is outstanding. The 
 city (Rapture) which is underwater in Mid-Atlantic is a very innovative, creative idea. Also, u 
 have the ability to genetically modify your body by using Adam, gene  
 The story is so engaging that it compensates for the lack of intense violence (explosions) . The 
 underwater world in Rapture is brilliant. I fell the game is a bit too easy. You can also hack 
 devices, systems and upgrade weapons and craft new ammo variants. Bioshock gives u a satisfying 
 14+ hour game play which is just perfect. And also it is highly replayable because it has multiple 
 endings. Bioshock is a must have game for all gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jercodin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Spectacular graphics. Innovative game play. Very interesting caricatures. Irrational Games has 
 something here that is the most original thing I have seen in years. It's like a masterpiece of 
 art, and sound, and concept. Character interactions are so incredibly multifaceted that the game 
 could not possibly play the same for any two different gamers, and for that matter even the same 
 gamer playing it again for the second and even third time. From whose dreams or nightmares come 
 these ideas. Wonderfully immersive and unlike anything out there. Should have been much longer, 
 as the whole thing seems to end much too abruptly for a plot so full of such potential. That being 
 said it is still one of the most essential gaming experiences out there for anyone interested First 
 Person Shooter, Role Playing, or Action and Adventure games. Play it once an I'll bet you will 
 be keeping it very handy to play all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allASIANallSEXY
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  very nice graphics and thought out to be better than i though it will be 
  will always be waiting for a 2nd one
  um...... actually there are much more games far better 
 than this but it got me satisfied.
  i mean i went to grab video game around 9:00 at night at a 24-7 gamespot in LA nevada and woot 
 this game got me up the rest of the night and so on.
  
  i acually never got bored of this game and never will be
  
  i asked a friend over my house 
 to try it out and by the time it was time for him to fricken leave..... he wouldn't get out of 
 mt house.... not until i got him to deal with my mom (i call her PANDA) so... PANDA told my friend ( 
 kee wong i know the name is weird he's korean and i am too) to get up or else we wont take him 
 to six flags ( which we were gonna go the day after.... so i gotta say bioshock be the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigmaeno
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is a fairly unique shooter, and while it is based off the Unreal Tournament engine, it 
 doesn't really look like it is (which I appreciate) . It took me awhile to really get into the game, 
 maybe 4-5 hours or so. It really picks up when you start getting a lot of abilities and begin to 
 understand how everything works. The skill point system isn't really that complicated but it's 
 hard to describe it regardless. It took me 15-20 hours for a single run-through. 
  
  What makes the combat original in this game is your magic hand powers, whatever they're called. 
 The fire spell is very fulfilling to use, even when it's not effective... You snap your fingers 
 and BAM, your enemy goes up in flames and runs around in pain. Then you can send a swarm of bees 
 after them. It's just.... cool. It makes you feel like a pimp.
  
  I'm very happy with the diversity of enemies. Other than big daddies (weird dudes in metal suits 
 that pedo-stalk their little sisters all the time) you mostly fight various types of splicers, 
 which are genetically modified mutants which happen to often be sociopathic which makes for some 
 creepy moments.
  
  Unfortunately for some reason I find this game depressing... I just don't ever want to play it 
 again. The atmosphere makes me feel like I'm in a dirty dive bar, but it's very unique and cool... 
 so I'm conflicted. You know how Doom 3 is just hard to play because it's so high-stress from all 
 the dudes jumping out at you? Same thing with Bioshock but in a slightly different way. Less BOO! 
 and more "what the f*ck is that guy doing?" Parents, don't let your 9 year olds play this unless 
 you want them to be scarred for life because they are having nightmares about mutant surgeons that 
 cut up beautiful women because of some psychotic fascination with making them perfect. 
  
  You could conceivably play this game a second time and get completely different abilities and play 
 with a different style and whatever. I'm personally not going to play it again, but I will definitely 
 pick up Bioshock 2 when it comes out. If you're looking for a new experience in the realm of FPS'ers, 
 play Bioshock. 
  
  Oh, and one more thing: There are two twists at the end of the game that are better than any that 
 I've ever seen in a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogu242001
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  when I read about this game I thought that this is a must have game, but after I got it and start 
 playing it my enthusiasm fade away.
  The game has very good graphics and a quite interesting story line, also plasmid idea is nice and 
 fun but the hacking puzzle are getting boring after a wile also is little diversity in bad guys 
 characters same old splicers , all trough the game with no much difference between them. Also I 
 think the idea of taking pictures of enemy's for boosting your killing abilities is not that great. 
 I got killed many times trying to get a good pictures of an enemy or trying to get a picture of 
 a type of enemy that had all pictures tacked already. 
  
  There are also some useless plasmids that you will never use and also the map is useless most of 
 the time. 
  
  With all that is not a bad game (a decent FPS) which deserve to be played but 9.0 (and editor choice) 
 is just to much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedeluxe
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  The first time I picked this up was on the 360 and I didn't much care for it. I also admit that 
 I didn't give it much chance. Now I have played through it on the pc and all I can say is wow. 
 The atmosphere is wondrous and at the same time claustrophobic. Bioshock drops you into a decaying 
 eutopia (dystopia) at the bottom of the sea and does so with aplomb. The visuals are dripping with 
 detail and everything seems to meld together perfectly. The scripted events don't stick out like 
 a sore thumb and the A. I. isn't half bad either. The best part aside from the setting and aesthetics 
 would have to be the upgrade systems which is a far cry from the days when you would pick up the 
 old quad damage multiplier and let loose in a gib-fest (not that there's anything wrong with that) . 
 They come in two forms: weapons upgrades which are pretty sick and genetic modifications which 
 fit right into the story and for some reason beyond rationality feel right. The voice-actors are 
 pretty good for a game that seems to have come out of left field. None of that disjointed mono-tone 
 noise found in sub-par productions. Not much music diversity but what is in the game fits the period 
 piece perfectly which ultimately makes the game feel that much more authentic and enjoyable. Kudos 
 to the developers for such an outstanding bit of gaming and here's to hoping for a sequel and maybe 
 more dystopian adventures in general.
  
  P. S.
  The ending cinematic was sort of touching but wasn't as satisfying as it could have been. The fight 
 however was off the rocker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisser665
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite an interesting one for all of the right reasons. With a modern computer setup, 
 which nowadays is growing cheaper, this game is absolutely beautiful and downright flawless. 
 
  
  The obvious high-point that everyone mentions when reviewing this game is the story. It's communicated 
 in large part through disembodied voices who portray their lives and struggles via many different 
 tape decks you find lying around the large and unique levels. The voice acting is top-notch and 
 really makes you wonder who these people are and what has gone so disastrously wrong in their city, 
 Rapture.
  
  While the game takes place in an underwater city, the variability of the art design (which is largely 
 reminiscent of 1950's deco) heavily influences what you see: repetition is not one of this game's 
 weaknesses. From large concrete rooms full of thumping and humming machines to frozen hallways 
 to run-down living quarters that are dripping from the leaks that so threaten Rapture's existence, 
 simply walking around and enjoying the scenery is a treat enough in itself.
  
  As far as the game play goes, some might say it's deceptively simple. You can crouch, fire any 
 weapon in your arsenal, or switch to your plasmids. Plasmids are upgrades that grant you abilities 
 ranging from the power to throw lightening bolts to shoot a swarm of angry wasps out of your hands. 
 Yet it is in these powers that many say the game truly shines: While anybody can hold the trigger 
 on the automatic Tommy-gun that you find in the game, it's much more satisfying to mix and match 
 your freezing ability with the concrete sound of your wrench smashing a frozen human form to thousands 
 of pieces.
  
  In some ways, I would consider this videogame a book. Not because of a lot of reading you have 
 to do (there isn't much at all) but rather in the form of really pulling you in from your immediate 
 surroundings, and making you desire to push on, to really conquer your foes. It becomes a game 
 that you are not playing, but rather are a part of. And in any case, a quality like that earns 
 an exceedingly high rating from me.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  There's no question that Bioshock is a very good game that would be enjoyed by RPGers and FPSers 
 alike. The graphics and setting are simply amazing and completely immersive but the story is not 
 very engaging and by the end, the action begins to feel a bit like more of the same.
  
  Since the developers themselves hold up Bioshock as the spiritual successor to System Shock 2 one 
 cannot help but take them up on the comparison - and there are a lot of similarities between the 
 two. In short, while Bioshock clearly excels visually, SS2 is a better game.
  
  The game starts off with you out in the middle of the ocean next to a crashed airplane. You swim 
 to a nearby rocky outcropping and descend into an underwater city. You are almost immediately contacted 
 via the radio by someone else in the city who wants to help you (the first similarity to SS2) .
 
  
  The first thing that will strike you is that there is water everywhere. It's clear the developers 
 nailed the visual effects here and just wanted to show it off. There are puddles and pools of rippling 
 water, water flowing along the ground and water falling from waterfalls over a city that is apparently 
 falling apart.
  
  As in SS2, you will find audio recordings throughout the city that contain journals for the various 
 citizens. In SS2, these journals slowly filled in the mystery and added a sense of dread and terror 
 to your progress, but in Bioshock, you may find yourself quickly uninterested. There's really not 
 much of a mystery as to what happened to the city and what your goals are and that weakness in 
 the story is a letdown from the beginning.
  
  The game is also completely linear. Once you leave an area, you can usually return to it, but you 
 will rarely find any reason to backtrack.
  
  Throughout the game, you will entire a handle of enemies to deal with. Unfortunately, there's not 
 much variety here. The main enemy is the Splicer who are just people who are jacked up on too many 
 gene enhancers. There are a handful of different types of Splicers but Splicers are mostly what 
 you get to fight throughout the entire game. By the end of the game, fighting Splicers gets quite 
 old.
  
  There are also security cameras, turrets and defense bots to deal with, all of which can be hacked 
 in a manner clearly taken right out of SS2.
  
  The encounters that do break the lack of variety in Splicers are the Big Daddies. As you progress 
 through the game, you will encounter these real big guys protecting little girls that you can either 
 rescue or harvest for ADAM that you can use to improve your strength. The Big Daddies are passive 
 toward you until you attack them, but once you do, you're in for a fight.
  
  Throughout the game, you will collect money that you can spend at various vending machines to purchase 
 supplies. The supplies don't vary much over time and there's no point in hording your money. In 
 fact, you can only carry $500 which is even more surprising since your money counter has four digits. 
 It's a rather frustrating and useless limit.
  
  There is a decent variety of equipment you can acquire throughout the game. There's a standard 
 compliment of weapons such as pistols, shotguns and rocket launchers but also nonstandard weapons 
 called Plasmids which provide the ability to do things like shock your enemies, light them on fire 
 or pick up heavy objects and throw them, even incoming grenades.
  
  You can also acquire additional strengths and skills by finding tonics. There are three types of 
 tonics and you start off with the ability to have one of each but over the course of the game, 
 you can increase the number. You can change the tonics you currently have in use by visiting the 
 abundant Gene Bank machines. I was quite unhappy at the beginning of the game because you'll acquire 
 several of these but the game doesn't tell you how to see what you have available or how to change 
 them; you won't find a Gene Bank until the second level.
  
  The game also provides a pretty good sense of immersion by making for an interactive environment. 
 There are lots of items lying around that you can pick up and use as weapons. You can also do things 
 like electrocute enemies standing in water or light oil puddles on fire.
  
  The last thing I want to mention is the element of research. In SS2, you discover recipes for creating 
 new items or powerups, but you have to hunt out and find the various ingredients (some of which 
 are rare) . Bioshock has research element to it, but it's rather lame in comparison. You eventually 
 find a camera and by taking pictures of your enemies, you gain new skills and abilities. There's 
 nothing as interesting as having to searth for that rare ingredients you might need.
  
  If they had focused on a better story and put more variety into the encounters and environments 
 in the game, this game could very well have been one of the best games of all time. As it is, it's 
 just pretty darn good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sccUniverse
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  I originally played this game last year when it first came out on my PC. I had an XBox at the time 
 but opted for the PC version instead since my monitor was much better than the TV I was planning 
 to use with the console version. In short, I wanted this game to look as good as it possibly could. 
 
  
  So I bought a new video card, an extra gig of RAM and attempted to play Bioshock...... bad idea. 
 
  
  Bioshock for the PC is a resource hog and if you have a 360 I recommend just going for that version 
 to ensure you have a consistent and good overall visual and gameplay experience. That's all I'll 
 say about that... 
  
  As for the gameplay, I loved Bioshock's setting and characters. The voice-overs were done exceptionally 
 well and the visuals (when turned up all the way or shown as-is on the 360) are jaw-dropping for 
 sure. Bioshock is a beautiful game. I loved the atmosphere of many of the levels and the truly 
 creepiest part of the game is when you enter the level of the crazy artist who has turned an area 
 of Rapture (Fort Frolic) into a bizarre museum filled with plaster-covered dead people... very, 
 very disturbing. 
  
  All that said though, Bioshock does have a couple bad flaws: First, and most obvious to anyone 
 who's played these type of games before: Bioshock is an updated, underwater version of System Shock 
 2... I mean, it's almost an identical copy. Ghosts, a huge plot twist in the middle, your narrator 
 helping you, etc. are all direct rip-offs of the 1999 PC masterpiece. I'm not saying Bioshock isn't 
 worth playing because of this - I just think it could've been so much more on its own if it hadn't 
 copied SS2 so much in major ways. 
  
  Another gripe is the inventory system - the system was obviously dumbed-down to make gameplay progress 
 faster and not confuse so many gamers - but for players who liked SS2's way of finding things and 
 rationing items out bit by bit, this is a letdown. The game's difficulty also needs to be addressed 
 since all players will come to a point when they realize Big Daddies are easy to kill and the regeneration 
 booths essentially make the game a breeze since there is no penalty of death. Also factor in some 
 huge gaping plot holes that were deliberately ignored (Why only Little Sisters? How was Rapture 
 created in secret in such a short amount of time, etc.) and you have a game that is far from perfect. 
 
  
  And finally, you have an ending that many people weren't happy about. I've never been a fan of 
 "boss battles" in shooters because they all play out the same and it usually boils down to shooting 
 parts of the environment in the right order at the right time to damage or kill the bad guy. Hardly 
 impressive. Even so, Bioshock's final fight was very cinematic in its presentation and felt like 
 it needed to be there. However, the very short ending makes you feel sorta cheated, so I can't 
 rate the last part of Bioshock too highly. 
  
  Overall, Bioshock is a very fun game and is definitely worth checking out. It's got an amazing 
 and beautiful world to explore and has laid the groundwork for an interesting setting future games 
 in the series could explore in more detail. I do recommend System Shock 2 more than BS though, 
 simply because it did everything Bioshock does now nearly a decade ago and is truly a more challenging, 
 atmospheric and scary game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperQ-2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is terrifying. BioShock occurs in an underwater world called Rapture. The name of the 
 protagonist is not given; he is known throughout the game as the narrator. A bevy of scientific 
 experiments were transpiring in Rapture, and some were unknown to many people. This is where the 
 player enters the picture. You travel there to examine Rapture, but you are immersed in a perverse 
 atmosphere. BioShock has an exemplary storyline that is rare in the first person genre.
  
  The visuals and audio are excellent. Graphically, BioShock looks sensational and holds up nicely 
 without any frame rate glitches. Players will hear the eerie sounds of little girls as they hide. 
 Footsteps are heard loud and clear when various enemies approach you. The most engrossing aspect 
 of BioShock has to be the gameplay. Within an instant, the narrator can launch what appears to 
 be an endless swarm of bees at his opponents. He can also utilize lighting to put him in more advantageous 
 positions. For instance, hurls lightening at enemies while they are in water with damage nearby 
 adversaries. When all else fails, you can always use a gun. The perfect blend of expending magic 
 and bullets is an intriguing balance.
  
  BioShock is a fairly simple game because there is not much of a challenge, but do not let that 
 deter you from playing it. I have not been this terrified playing a game since the original Resident 
 Evil. Everything about the game, oozes bloodcurdling. From the suspenseful music to the creepy 
 foes, BioShock will give even the amateur gamers nightmares. It was so frightening that I could 
 not bear to play BioShock in the dark; furthermore, I defy anyone to play BioShock at night.
  
  Final Verdict: 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tylacwayzay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna review this with gamespot's points.
  
  Gameplay - 9: Possibly the most unique aspect of the game. It is basically a simple shooter on 
 crack. The main controls remain blasting out the bullets at your enemies, but they added a bit 
 of a twist. You can use special powers, called plasmids, to add more of a punch. You can use your 
 plasmids and guns in ways to make killing enemies a breeze. For example, you could have insects 
 swarm your enemy, and while they are flailing about, you can blast them in the head with a pistol. 
 Most of the game gameplay consists of using these plasmids and weapons accordingly to fit the situation. 
 The biggest problem is that its really the only thing you do. You could just as easily use the 
 shotgun and blast them then have to do exhausting combos.
  
  Graphics - 10: One of the most spectacular looking games of 2007. Textures are detailed and real, 
 character animation is fluid, environments have great design, but the most amazing thing about 
 bioshock's graphics is the lighting. The flickering of lights, the blaze and glare of a fire, the 
 oceanic glow that beams through the windows, the looming shadow of an enemy waiting for you up 
 ahead, it all just feels so real and atmospheric. The only issues are some technical issues that 
 can happen on medium to low end computers, such as sound clipping or the screen freezing for a 
 minute or two after adjusting graphics setings during game-play.
  
  Sound - 8: The sound is great overall. It has plenty of extremely well done voice acting with strong 
 dialougue. The sound effects are big and powerful, such as the exploding shotgun bucks that booms 
 in the enemie's faces. But, the most obvious problem about the sound (this issue is very controversial) 
 is the fact they play 50's and 60's music ALL throughout the game. Sure it sounds fine and fits 
 the era, but you get sick of it after two hours of hearing it non-stop. Luckily, there is occasionally 
 original music that pumps up the tensity, but other than that, the music is mostly a downfall.
 
  
  Value - 6: *sigh* The WORST part of the game. I'm gonna be very blunt with you: IT'S EXTREMELY 
 SHORT. For such an innovative and atmospheric game, It lacks in length. You will get done with 
 it the first time through in 6-10 hours, and the second time in maybe 5 hours. Luckily, replay 
 value is not to bad, but just the fact you are so limited in exploration is disapointing.
  
  Tilt - 9: Incredible stroy! The story is immersive and wonderfully told through the finding 
 of audio diaries of the fallen city of rapture. Not only that, but it has one of those twists that 
 stick with you for the next week. But, The game just doesn't feel long enough to support such an 
 extreme stroy. An example of this is that sometimes you have no idea whats going on and you are 
 thinking to yourself "only if they would slow down and explain it more."
  
  Side notes: The 360 version is a better bet. It doesn't glitch up nearly as much, and the game 
 looks even better on a 50' 720p Widecreen T. V. :D
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MTullusCicero
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  BioShock was certainly a good game, but in all honesty, it was probably over-hyped. As a huge fan 
 of the System Shock series, I had high expectations for this game, and I'm sorry to say that they 
 weren't met.
  
  I'll start with the good things. First off, the graphics are very pretty, especially if you've 
 got a machine that can really run it well (play it on widescreen if you can) . The character models 
 are good, the blood effects-though probably a bit much at times-are solid, and the weapons are 
 particularly well-drawn. The water effects are excellent and highly convincing, as are reflections 
 and shadows. The lighting is superb, and used to great effect. 
  
  As with System Shock 2, the sound in BioShock is excellent. Weapon sounds are very convincing, 
 footsteps are very good, and the dripping-water effects are spooky. I particularly liked the clicking 
 noises that the turrets make, as well as the thundering footsteps of the Big Daddies.
  
  The atmosphere of BioShock is outstanding, and is-in my opinion-the one aspect of the game in which 
 Ken Levine and his team really did justice to System Shock 2. As mentioned before, lighting and 
 sound effects do a great job of contributing to the game's creepy atmosphere. In addition, the 
 1940's setting is extremely effective overall. The posters on the walls are great, and the PA announcements 
 are every bit as effective as those of Xerxes in SS2. The in-game music coming through phonographs 
 placed throughout Rapture was by far my favorite part of the environment.
  
  As far as gameplay, Irrational did some very interesting things in BioShock. The whole "plasmid" 
 concept works surprisingly well, and some of them are a lot of fun to play with. I'm still not 
 quite sure how I feel about character customization in the game; while there are plenty of abilities 
 to choose from, the stats system from System Shock 2 was removed completely. This makes it a little 
 easier to know what to do, but also limits the player's ability to really customize the character.
 
  
  For all the things I liked about Bioshock, there were plenty of things on which I was not as keen. 
 First off, the story was not nearly as effective as that of System Shock 2 (Potential SPOILER ALERT 
 ahead) . I was rather disappointed to find that the overall story arc was almost identical to System 
 Shock 2's. At the beginning of the game, the player is rescued from a desperate situation by someone 
 in a remote location communicating via radio, who guides the player through the game and eventually 
 turns out to be the main villain who has to be destroyed in the final battle. That sounds awfully 
 familiar. I don't think it's too much to ask the writers to come up with some original material 
 (END OF SPOILER ALERT) . The audio recordings were a BIG stretch. I understand the concept of suspending 
 disbelief, but I just couldn't buy the idea that these people took big, clunky tape players everywhere 
 they went to record their thoughts. This worked very well in System Shock 2, as all the crew members 
 simply recorded diary entries on their PDA's; it worked in a few instances in BioShock as well, 
 such as the recordings of the scientific experiments. I would have been much happier with simple 
 written diary entries, and maybe ghostly voices reading them aloud if Irrational really wanted 
 to have them vocalized. Furthermore, with the exception of Andrew Ryan and Sander Cohen, none of 
 the characters really seemed to breathe the way the crew of the Von Braun did. And although there 
 were some disturbing things, such as the little sisters and the genetic modifications, most of 
 the scares came in the form of cheap surprises such as people jumping out from behind desks.
  
  I had serious problems with the gameplay of BioShock. The FPS aspect was taken way too far, 
 as it was commonplace to have to run into a room guns blazing and take out twenty splicers at a 
 time. The game as a whole felt highly scripted from beginning to end, as most of the progression 
 in the game came in the form of the player entering a room and going through the other side, and 
 repeating this process until a dead end was reached, at which point there would be a radio message 
 followed by a hundred baddies coming through the door. And, in classic shooter style, there was 
 a boss fight at the end of every level, which really felt entirely unnecessary. Besides all this, 
 in stark contrast to System Shock 2, the game was TOO EASY. Every time the player dies, no matter 
 what, he is simply respawned, the only negative repercussion being that he has to walk back to 
 where he died. There's no loss of money or anything of the sort, and it is actually 100% impossible 
 to lose the game until the final level. In addition, the game was far too short, taking maybe ten 
 to twelve hours to complete, and replay value is very limited.
  
  In retrospect, I wasn't sure that BioShock was worth the fifty bucks I paid for it on launch day. 
 It was fun, but I'm just not sure that it really lived up to all the hype. My hope is that the 
 game's popularity will allow Ken Levine to get it right the second time around in BioShock 2, while 
 still making the game a financial success. We'll see.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pipsquid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Bioshock doesn't only have fantastic graphics, but it also has an amazing storyline. Sure, it has 
 some glitches and bugs, but ignore that and you have a perfect game. The choice of selecting plasmids 
 or conventional weapons is great. This game is a definite must play. Ignore that quest arrow once 
 in a while and go exploring by yourself, it's awsome. The enemies are easy in the beginning, but 
 later on, they get tougher. The big daddies are in both ways a living hell, because you have to 
 fight them every time you have to get a little sister, and a helpful ally, once you hypnotize him, 
 he'll help you out. The quests can be a little annoying and the arrow will sometimes be hard to 
 get, but other than that, the storyline is fantastic. You can use every enemy as your helper, splicers, 
 bots, turrets, cameras and big daddies. The plasmids are great, and work better than using the 
 regular weapons against tougher splicers. You can upgrade your weapons to make them stronger. If 
 you have a chance to play this game, Play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronos_ss2
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Well what can I say?, totally loved it, if you're reading this and you like FPS, then Bioshock 
 2 is definitely the game for you, totally loved it.
  Graphics are awesome, loved the shaders (you will need a good video card, CPU, memory etc... to 
 play this game though) , Bioshock has a lot of action in it, lots of things you can do, lost of 
 weapon diversity and as well as different abilities that you can acquire throughout the game. I 
 loved that Bioshock was not based on the future like most games are but it was based on the past. 
 I hope you enjoy that as much as I did. :) . Bioshock is the kind of game that comes once in a long 
 while, the kind of game that you can really enjoy having so many features, such a good level design, 
 monster textures and overall graphic details, this game can be very enjoyable and entertaining.
 
  
  Cons:
  Huuummm... none, this game totally rules! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laufu
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Apparently the game had some glitches when it was first released that I am not experiencing, because 
 this game is utterly perfect now. It's engaging, immersing, well written, well acted and incredibly 
 well designed. It's the kind of game that provides you so much flexibility to explore and tinker 
 that I can easily see playing this again to test other combinations of upgrades, weapons, etc. 
 It's as if they took elements that I loved from a bunch of different games and cherry picked the 
 best elements and wrapped it up in beautiful, interactive, cinematic event.
  
  This is easily as good, if not better than, Half-life 2. Play it if you can because you won't regret 
 it. Even if you don't particularly like FPS', play it in easy mode to play through the story.
 
  
  Still not convinced? Then it's your loss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Why does everyone like Bioshock, you ask? The Little Sisters emit the most childish, annoying brat-like 
 voices ever heard in a video game. The different endings so highly trumpeted and emphasized in 
 a few promotional interviews and by insiders turns out be just so-and-so. Fighting several Big-Daddies 
 and wave after wave of Splicers in a demented world seems so repetitive. But why did it still turn 
 out to be so darn good?? 
  
  The answer lies in the perfect fusion of an immersive environment, compelling narrative and the 
 highly rewarding gameplay all under the deep blue sea in a city named Rapture. 
  
  Great stories don't make great games. Great games aren't made with great gameplay either. Bioshock 
 is entirely different. The underwater environments are a nice break than the usual terrorists, 
 Nazis, aliens and spaceships FPS lovers are so often use to fighting on ground. Unreal Engine 3 
 games look awesome, but they are nothing without the careful manipulation needed to create such 
 beautiful maps and set pieces. On a high end computer, Bioshock's art design and setting, which 
 evoke a feeling of a bygone era (1950s style) , are something to marvel at. The water effects are 
 the best I've seen in any game to date. Combine this with the fantastic lighting and textures, 
 this game is up there with UT3 and Gears of War in the UE3 category. That being said, Rapture looks 
 quite engrossing.
  
  The compelling narrative of Bioshock is a clear winner. Very few games of the best-of-the-best 
 possess the ability to churn out such gripping story-telling. As you venture out in an attempt 
 to escape Rapture, recorded audio logs of the demented citizens of this failed city reveal an eye-opening 
 struggle of what was to be a perfect world, devoid of the troubles from up above on land. Progress 
 through each level, map-by-map and the entire story of Rapture will unravel slowly. Bioshock beautifully 
 executes an important element in game design with the story of Rapture.
  
  Gameplay in Bioshock is quite rewarding. Use basic lead-pumping weapons, sci-fi twisted plasmids 
 and other genetically engineered combat abilities to improve your game against Big Daddies and 
 waves of splicers. Choices abound in the game. I personally decided to use and upgrade my napalm 
 flamethrower and stuck with burning and freezing my enemies, sometimes using telekinesis to throw 
 objects at them. Choose whether or not to save Little Sisters or harvest them for benefits, affecting 
 the ending of the game. I chose to save the children, thereby resulting in friendly advice and 
 assistance in return. I will replay the game again to find out what happens if I chose the other 
 option. In the end, I must admit Bioshock's gameplay never got tired for me.
  
  So to end this, Bioshock certainly ranks as one of my top games ever played of all time. I am not 
 easily dazzled by most FPS. I often find many sci-fi games, like Doom 3, quite generic in tone 
 and nothing superb. Bioshock isn't one of them, for 2K Games have created a game that truly stands 
 out from the mainstream. Immersive environment, narrative & gameplay fuse together to create a 
 science fiction work-of-art. A must play for all FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintivan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  1) The game it too easy.
  TRUE. 
  Even on the hardest setting, there is too much ammo, too many first aid kits and stations to ever 
 provide a real challenge. In SS2, every bullet was precious. When you have practically unlimited 
 health and firepower, the game loses a big edge.
  
  2) Vitachamber takes away all the challange.
  TRUE. 
  This is especially annoying when fighting 
 Big Daddies, the only real challenge in the game. If you happen to be fighting a Big Daddy near 
 a Vitachamber, you keep beaming right back and the Big Daddy's damage accrues, so you just have 
 to pump another few clips into him. Repeat. Yawn. 
  
  3) Not enough variety of enemy.
  TRUE.
  You will get bored about halfway through the game killing splicers. You will roast them, 
 freeze them, shock them, kill them with every different kind of ammo from every weapon. 
  
  4) Hacking gets boring and repetitive.
  TRUE.
  In time you will cease hacking and just destroy 
 everything.
  
  5) Level design is repetitive and uninteresting.
  FALSE. 
  You will not tire of exploring Rapture, just the elements listed above.
  
  In sum, most of 
 the complaints listed in the reviews are valid, and detract from what could have been among the 
 best games ever. Rapture's gameplay is intuitive and fun. Unlike crappy shooters like Quake 4 and 
 Doom 3 expansion pack, the weapons are very satisfying, and you will enjoy fragging your enemies 
 for a good while.
  Graphics and atmosphere are phenomenal, and ARE among the best ever. Soundtrack and audio are likewise 
 great. Let's not forget a good story, with characters you actually have FEELING for. This again 
 puts Rapture ahead of most games.
  Overall, the good far outweighs the bad. My recommendation would be to buy the game, but don't 
 play it all at once. Savor each level, and space them out between other games so as not to get 
 bored due to the issues listed above. Ultimately you feel a part of the world of Rapture, and that 
 is the mark of a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franko_3
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  It's a vaporware... The really try to be scarry and it works for the first hour or less. After that 
 you enter in a serious sam mode where you need to kill the same thing over and over again reducing 
 their impact on the game story-wise ( you see so many junky you will not even bother to understand 
 them) . The ennemy are all hard and annoying to kill, you wish you could kill them in 3-4 bullet, 
 but they all seems to support a mg charger on them, but an electric plasmid+ a wrench hit= instant 
 dead... Too bad your mana is so limited, it only make the game more insipid to be depleted after 
 3 magic spell. The protector are also horribly annoying to kill. At first I could not understand 
 why the dev put so many "vita chamber" all around the map since the game was so easy, but after 
 the first protector, I understood. The protector are insanely hard, almost immune to melee weapon 
 and plasmid and require you to use all your ammo to take them down and expect to die on average 
 5 times to kill them. Some robots are also instant killer, since they are placed too far (hard 
 to target with weapon/plasmid) , under the floor and they can spot you from insane distance while 
 you can only notice a blurry/dark background. The graphic are good, the water effect fabulous, 
 everything has a gritty dark feeling, but after 2-3 levels, you will notice everything has the 
 same look, there is not much variety with the color palette... dark, brown, red... Stupid ut3 engine. 
 Pirating is meh and feel like an addition made 5 min before lunch time on gold day by the creator 
 of Tetris. I hope bioshock 2 dec team will concentrate themself on the rpg element of bioshock 
 instead of the fps element, because for me Bioshock 1 is a bad shooter with some good ideas rpg 
 wise. Not enought to save it and not enought to worth rose from reviewer everywhere around the 
 world. Seriously... Go see Yathzee zero punctuation review for a more complete review of the game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tommoz0r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 8:42 am PT
Review:  Following up this game prior to it's release i was a little uneasy about a few things, such as 
 repetitive gameplay, story etc. But all i can say is this game is absolutely amazing. I gave this 
 a 9.5 for its visuals, sound, gameplay, but most of all in which i think everyone would agree, 
 is atmosphere. Playing the game i was constantly on edge, wondering what was behind each dark corner, 
 the use of lighting and shadows added to the atmosphere constantly. 
  
  One thing also about the visuals that made my jaw drop was the water effects. Very realistic, it 
 was almost as if i could touch it. The enemy AI wasn't disappointing at all either, such as when 
 battling the big daddies or the rosies, they always went for cover, using the environment to thier 
 advantage, as of course you can too! On top of that the battles were very merciless and fun to 
 take part in! 
  
  The weapon and tonic system was astonishing, upgrading the weapons not only made them awesome visually, 
 but upgrading weapons like the shotgun with special gears to allow you to rapidly fire one-by-one 
 with no reloading made you feel all the more powerful. 
  
  Theres so much more i could say to praise this game, but i could go on for a good 3 or more paragraphs, 
 but all i can say that with its wide variety of features, exploration, fantastic visuals, atmosphere, 
 and of course overall gameplay this is one game no one should miss out on. A hands down 9.5, - 
 0.5 because there was no online multiplayer, but the single player definately makes up for it until 
 the next installment!
  
  Well done 2k, will be keeping a close eye on the sequel.
  
  TPJ McGinnes
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: keeponjammin08
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  I got it when I saw it on steam for 14.99. I couldn't resist, knowing that it's critically acclaimed 
 on every pc gaming source I know. I was disappointed. I really expected the powers to be insanely 
 fun and the gameplay to be near one of a kind. But no... I have to fight countless annoying splicers 
 that are not scary and not fun to defeat. Then WOO! I loot it hoping that it drops enough money 
 to buy ammo, health, and EVE which are ridiculously hard to come by for a game that throws so many 
 hordes of enemies at you. Uh. Worth 15 dollars? Maybe. I guess this game might have seemed alot 
 better if I hadn't just played through the Half life 2 series... Just beware, you're a fool if 
 you spend 30 dollars on this game. I'll play through it... but only because I don't want to waste 
 my hard earned cash! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7ranc3
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Well this game has been out for quite some time now, and I find myself reinstalling it on my computer 
 over and over again to replay it. Now I have a new gaming laptop with dual SLI and a Quad Core 
 Yorkfield processor so this is the game I chose to show it off to my friends.
  
  Now for the game. It is very eerie. Not in a scare the crap out of you way, but in an intense, 
 edge of your seat kind of way. If you don't like horror, like me, then this game will still be 
 playable to you. 
  
  The replayability of this game is what makes it most fun. There are different ways to get through 
 the game, and at its hardest level, it offers enough challenge to keep it interesting. 
  
  If somehow, you haven't bought this game yet, and you are thinking about it, then I would recommend 
 it greatly.
  
  The only regret I have, is that there is no multiplayer. What a blast it would be to play Mr. Bubbles 
 and take on your friends and enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DendromutantX
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Story: I have to review story first, because its freaking amazing. It's like having an orgasm in 
 your head. For a linear game it have a very, very, VERY intriguing and complex plot. Diary logs 
 scattered throughout the game add to the atmosphere and setting, be sure to listen to them all. 
 I found both endings satisfying and reflecting well on my gameplay choices.
  
  Graphics: The graphics and physics engine are amazing. Everything from lighting to how the water 
 droplets look is just perfect. Especially great is the enemy design, that reinforce the plot and 
 the atmosphere. Never before seeing a person in a carnival mask has made me sad and uncomfortable 
 at the same time.
  
  Sound: The sound is top notch: everything from the original score to the sound of watter dripping 
 somewhere in the distance, to the radio announcements were blending well into the overall atmosphere.
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay basically comes down to killing everything in your path, and given linearity 
 of the game it's pretty clear what to do at any given point. Fortunately the game gives you a plethora 
 of different tactics that you could use to achieve that goal. Whithout spoiling much, I could say 
 that you could use plasmids, weapons or the environment to bring death to your foes. You can also 
 combine these three in countless ways, and come up with your own tactics that aren't very obvious.
 
  
  Controls: controls are easy and intuitive. If you have played first person shooters before, you 
 will not need to adjust much. If this is your first FPS game, It would probably take you ten to 
 thirty minutes to become comfortable with the controls. Luckily the game eases you into the combat 
 situation, and you will get plenty of practice without much threat to your life.
  
  Difficulty: This is very easy, even for a beginning FPS player. It's very forgiving in terms of 
 dying, as when you do lose you life, you will recover at the nearest vita-chamber with no penalties. 
 User-made modifications exist to remove vita-chambers, and an option to disable them exists in 
 later official patches. But the easiness, as I've already mentioned comes from the sheer array 
 of the deadly skills in your posession. It's like taking a candy from a retarded kid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  This game got very mixed reviews, personally i enjoyed it very much.
  The opening sequence is incredible, probably the best in history and really sets you up for a cracking 
 adventure.
  The story is superb, but sometimes you don't spend enough time discovering new plot developments, 
 you just end up running around looking for parts for a bomb or a suit or something.
  Atmospherically it is completely engrossing, the art is brilliant and you can kill hours just looking 
 at adverts for plasmids or tonics.
  A lot of questions were raised about the combat, i found it interesting because of plasmids but 
 it is repetitive because theres really only one type of enemy (splicers) and the gunplay isn't 
 great.
  There are some rpg elements to it, which arent really really important but are a good touch and 
 do make a difference to how you like to do things, such as upgrading weapons or upgrading plasmids.
 
  The moral choice of harvesting or saving a little sister is very well done also, its very moving 
 and evokes your emotions.
  There are several moments of pure brilliance and exilheration which will leave you flabberghasted. 
 
  I cannot begin to express how superb the atmosphere is, it completely sucks you in and is pretty 
 freaky at times.
  Unfortunately it loses momentum towards the end, you will find yourself in vita chambers more and 
 more, the combat becomes more messy, and no new plasmids (just upgrdades, electro bolt 2 etc) really 
 appear in the second half of the game, and there doesnt' seem to be many interesting new locations 
 which is disappointing to say the least.
  The splicers inexplicably become stronger and harder to kill which is very frustrating and ammo 
 and health become more scarce, and you will find yourself just traipsing through levels not really 
 enjoying yourself because the plot twists are delayed.
  The graphics are excellent, exceedingly pretty and can't really be faulted.
  Summary,
  Graphics: 
 10
  Gameplay: 8
  Storyline and Atmosphere: 11 ( i cant stress enough how good they are)
  Sound:8
  
  this is truly a must play!
  although maybe not for hardcore elitist ss2 fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpph
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This game got very mixed reviews, personally i enjoyed it very much.
  The opening sequence is incredible, probably the best in history and really sets you up for a cracking 
 adventure.
  The story is superb, but sometimes you don't spend enough time discovering new plot developments, 
 you just end up running around looking for parts for a bomb or a suit or something.
  Atmospherically it is completely engrossing, the art is brilliant and you can kill hours just looking 
 at adverts for plasmids or tonics.
  A lot of questions were raised about the combat, i found it interesting because of plasmids but 
 it is repetitive because theres really only one type of enemy (splicers) and the gunplay isn't 
 great.
  There are some rpg elements to it, which arent really really important but are a good touch and 
 do make a difference to how you like to do things, such as upgrading weapons or upgrading plasmids.
 
  The moral choice of harvesting or saving a little sister is very well done also, its very moving 
 and evokes your emotions.
  There are several moments of pure brilliance and exilheration which will leave you flabberghasted. 
 
  I cannot begin to express how superb the atmosphere is, it completely sucks you in and is pretty 
 freaky at times.
  Unfortunately it loses momentum towards the end, you will find yourself in vita chambers more and 
 more, the combat becomes more messy, and no new plasmids (just upgrdades, electro bolt 2 etc) really 
 appear in the second half of the game, and there doesnt' seem to be many interesting new locations 
 which is disappointing to say the least.
  The splicers inexplicably become stronger and harder to kill which is very frustrating and ammo 
 and health become more scarce, and you will find yourself just traipsing through levels not really 
 enjoying yourself because the plot twists are delayed.
  The graphics are excellent, exceedingly pretty and can't really be faulted.
  Summary,
  Graphics: 
 10
  Gameplay: 8
  Storyline and Atmosphere: 11 ( i cant stress enough how good they are)
  Sound:8
  
  this is truly a must play!
  although maybe not for hardcore elitist ss2 fans!!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomer101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  When the wait began for bioshock, and the demo was about to be released, i was one of the many 
 people anxiously waiting to download it.
  After i played the demo, I felt as if the expectations bar for this game was set way too high, 
 it being made by the system shock 2 developers.
  
  But still, the game was a solid shooter with an original setting, storyline, beautiful graphics, 
 and nice gameplay twists. So i decided to give the full version a shot.
  
  Graphics : 10/10
  
  Everything in the game looks amazing, especially the water. The artistic 
 design is fabulous. Textures look sharp, enemies are creepy and all messed up, are incredibly well 
 animated and modeled. And when you look at a big daddy it's as if he's saying "don't fuk with me 
 or I'll rape you". Little sisters are definitely an original creation as well.
  Absolutely no complaints in this department.
  
  Sound : 10/10
  
  The voice acting in this 
 game is outstanding. All the different characters, thanks to their voices and accents, really have 
 a personality of their own. Not to mention that bad guys sound very convincing, whatever it is 
 they're saying or screaming, and guns really sound like they should.
  Astonishing technical achievement.
  
  Story : 7.5/10
  
  It starts off great. You are on 
 a plane, with a little monologue, and then BOOM! The plane crashes into the ocean, you barely get 
 out (of course being the sole survivor) , and find your way to bizarre place. Soon you find a device 
 which takes you under the ocean, and a little presentation ensues, explaining where you are : Rapture.
 
  Next thing, you pick up a radio, and this Atlas guy wants you to help him save his family, and 
 guides you through rapture. I wont say more.
  It had huge potential, but really, regardless of which ending you get, it feels rushed. After the 
 game ends, it leaves you there with a big WTF on your face, as in "WTF thats it?!".
  Even though the story is ultimately plagued by the shallow ending, it still holds well on its own. 
 
  
  Gameplay : 8.5/10
  
  This is what it all boils down to. Thing is, many players expected a city where you could free 
 roam, explore, find things, and not necessarily have to follow the main quest to be entertained.
 
  You can free roam in the city, but question is, what's the point? There really is nothing to find 
 in rapture, besides a few audio logs and ammos and stuff, all free roam gives you is an exploration 
 of the city, that's it.
  So the only thing left to do in order to get entertainment out of this game is to follow the storyline, 
 which makes Bioshock basically a straightforward shooter.
  Now don't get me wrong. The ways you can kill your opponents, the ways you can get through levels, 
 plasmids, original missions, hackable stuff, big daddy's. little sisters, varied characters, intriguing 
 storyline, the world itself and the areas you get to visit make Bioshock more than a stock shooter. 
 It actually makes for an awesome shooter, just a lot more straightforward than most expected.
 
  The fact that you can't really die in this game (once you "die", you get teleported to a kind 
 of resurrection booth) leaves you room for experimentation.
  
  Replay value : 6/10
  
  Like mentioned before, free roam does not bring any additional fun factor to the game. And trust, 
 when i talked about the rushed endings, i talked about both the good and bad ones, and seriously 
 to get either one of them depends on weather you save or harvest the little sisters, but they're 
 both equally shallow.
  The fact that enemies can be handled in multiple fashion might make you want to replay the game, 
 and you might want to try and pass it differently, but really, most of the time on your second 
 run through the game, you will find yourself going through the levels about the same way as the 
 first time.
  
  So long story short, people who will re-play this game are people looking to experiment a bit more, 
 or just replay trough the story so they can visit rapture again.
  
  Multiplayer :
  
  This game has none, and it's probably for the best.
  
  Conclusion : This game is just a great, 
 straightforward shooter, but left some people disappointed due to the fact that the expectations 
 bar was set really high.
  
  Even though this game falls short on the replay value side, it's still a solid experience the first 
 time and i recommend it to anyone who likes either fps games, horror games, or just the 40ies mixed 
 with a city at the bottom of the sea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyrone0us
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this short.
  
  Graphics - Awesome
  
  Sound - Awesome
  
  Atmosphere - Awesome, and at times will make you jump
  
  Story - It's pretty crazy and there's 
 quite a clever twist and everything, but the way it's all set up is so linear that I can't stand 
 it. Also those radio recordings are ridiculous in that they become increasingly revealing in relation 
 to how much of the game you've gone through. It's kind of dumb. Also, what the hell? Only 3 people 
 live in this entire city? Granted, the junkies were people too, but come on, you don't get to see 
 the city function as it was or any kind of... I don't know, fighting the junkies over and over and 
 over through the same leaky scenery kind of sucks after like... the first half hour. However when 
 the story starts to reveal itself more and more (no, not through the stupid radio sh*t) that's 
 what will keep you going. And, not to belittle the story, the story isn't even all that amazing, 
 it's just unusual that an fps title even pay attention to a storyline AT ALL these days. Bravo 
 to them for that at least. Eventually it becomes more about moral dilemmas and oh my god you're 
 a clone thing and blablabla but it's nonetheless entertaining. The fighting and hacking is an absolute 
 chore though. Go read a book.
  
  Oh also the scripted sequences are very well done I feel. But come on people, Best Game of All 
 Time? IT'S AN FPS WITH A STORY. Look, if it's got a single player, the story should be just as 
 important as graphics. How the hell is the best storyline lately come from Portal? That's like... wtf 
 that's a mod pretty much. Crysis had... NO WAY ALIENS OHH MY GOD. Quake 4, Aliens. F. E. A. R, might 
 as well be aliens. Doom 3, aliens from hell. S. T. A. L. K. E. R, mutant nuclear aliens. Prey, Aliens. 
 Half Life 2, Aliens. Actually come to think of it Preys story was hilarious but it was ok. If they 
 wanted to make it more realistic he should've been drunk the whole time hahahaha no I'm kidding 
 ok this isn't even a review anymore, I'll stop now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moleman2341
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed when playing Bioshock was the impressive graphics and level of detail 
 that had gone into the game. The eye candy was not all this game had to offer. It had a fantastic 
 blend of a first person shooter and a role playing game. The in game character customisation options 
 were a great way to personalise your character and choose the way you wanted to play. What really 
 tied this game up was the immersive story line; at times the story line did contain a few holes, 
 but ended up turning out really well. The better part of the story is the huge plot twist which 
 when you think the game is over there's still more. All in all BioShock is a great game, it looks 
 great, the game play is smooth and fun and the story is immersive and well written. I'd recommend 
 to anyone who enjoys first person shooters and RPG's to go out and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funnys
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is a game that shows fantastic graphic detail, enjoyable gameplay and the effects are 
 spectacular in every level of the game. The script and the voice actors are great; each character 
 has a unique voice and the gameplay is fun with non-stop action, adventure and horror, watch out 
 for that Splicer on the ceiling, the Splicers like to hide or jump down and attack you in the game. 
 PC recommended specs: GPU: 8800gt or higher, CPU: core 2 duo 2.5 GHz or higher, RAM: 2G ram or 
 higher, OS: windows vista or windows xp, your choice. If you want Dx 10 then go for vista. This 
 game would be even better with multiplayer. I think Bioshock has changed single player games forever 
 when it first released. 
  Helpful gaming tips: make sure not to waste your ammo, you will definitely need it later on in 
 the game. If you pick to harvest you will not get Adam, if you pick to save you will get Adam much 
 more of it. 
  
  If you see this game at your local game shop I recommend you buy it you, you will not be disappointed 
 with what you get. 
  
  Final thoughts: great game could have done with multiplayer. I am definitely looking forward to 
 Bioshock 2
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghaz013
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is an awesome game. Even if you're not an FPS fan, this story is really captivating, and 
 the story alone should warrant a purchase.
  
  -Pros-
  *Breath-taking story
  *Nice visuals and art design
  *Fighting Bid Daddies is a blast
  *Soaking in the atmosphere
 
  *Voice acting is nailed to a dime
  *Creepy audio add to the immersion
  *Excellent original score
  *Nifty looking guns
  *Enemy dialogues are comical
  *Plasmids never 
 get old
  
  
  -Cons-
  *Gun combat can feel inadequate at times. (Rare but present)
  *Stiff death animations
  *Securom copy protection (Requires active internet connection)
  *Lenient 
 death penalties made bid daddies easy to deal with
  
  
  This is an awesome game. If you are a 'Halo' person (Run and gun) then you might want to sit this 
 one out. Its almost like reading a book, listening to audio diaries and watching a few cutscenes 
 but again, Run and Gun people may not have the patience for this game. Prove me wrong!!!
  
  Hardware/Software- Fairly easy to run. Well optimized. The better of a rig you have, the better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buchanantodd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  From the plane crash to the dramatic final boss fight. This game will have you glued to the screen 
 and wanting more. The freedom of choice that this game offers in killing your foes is truly a sight 
 to behold. The hacking gimmick really works in this game. You will find yourself deciding "Do I 
 destroy or do I make it work for me." The beautiful art deco design is also a feast for the eyes. 
 Level design is outstanding. The city of rapture really does feel alive and lived in. The big daddies 
 give the player a sense of foreboding and are well designed. The variety of enemies is somewhat 
 disappointing. The splicers repetition of the same lines is slightly annoying at times. There are 
 also parts in the game where it feels repetitive but that could be said about almost every game 
 out there now days. Overall, this game has meat that is easy to sink your teeth into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willissz19
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is one of the best visual appealing games and does an excellent job immersing you into 
 a 1950's underwater city atmosphere with music, structure, clothing, etc.
  
  The appealing and mysterious story gives plenty of nice surprises; further details are given throughout 
 the game with radio recordings as you explore Rapture; these radios give Rapture a deeper and more 
 authentic feel. Bioshock does story and atmosphere well.
  
  Anyway, to weaponry; Bioshock is a first person shooter, but definitely new. Guns and a rocket 
 launcher are pretty much first person shooter musts, which Bioshock grants, nonetheless, Bioshock 
 adds something more, Plasmids. As you travel along Rapture, Plasmid stations are found and obtained, 
 each Plasmid offering a mutated ability; some electrocute opponents, catch them on fire, swarm 
 forth bees, and so on. Most Plasmids ,moreover, will not necessarily kill your enemies, they are 
 to be used in synergy with your guns, which spice up combat.
  
  However, I found the lack of enemy types to make combat a bit redundant. There are plenty of Plasmids, 
 but Plasmids just offer different ways of killing the same opponent.
  
  Bioshock also has "hacking." Through hacking you can convert a turret or camera to work for you. 
 What ends up happening is you find yourself hacking the same machines over and over and it becomes 
 a chore, nothing to look forward to.
  
  Though the story and atmosphere is exceptional, the lack of enemy types, hacking redundancy, and 
 a lackluster ending only make the game a decent one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlebrwnrobot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  In the 40's, Andrew Ryan secretly constructed an undersea metropolis in the Mid-Atlantic named 
 Rapture. Your character's plane crashes when you swim to a bathysphere which leads to abyss of 
 Rapture. You realize immediately you can't do this with just homemade shotguns, pistols, or machine 
 guns, you need plasmids. At the beginning of the game, Atlas guides you through the core of Rapture 
 while teaching how to equip and use plasmids. Plasmids can do anything from launching out electric 
 shock waves from hypnotizing Big Daddies to do your bidding. If you are now playing this game, 
 you might find it interesting to know you get 100 Gamerscore for saving all Little Sisters during 
 your game. Little Sisters follow Big Daddies around the city extracting Adam from corpses. Big 
 Daddies are monstrous creatures wielding giant drills and rivet guns that protect Little Sisters. 
 Adam is the currency you will use to buy plasmids from "Gatherer's Garden" which are needed to 
 advance in the game. But what makes this game great is the atmosphere of the game including an 
 almost perfect story, cinematic murder scenes, and psychotic citizens. This game is riveting and 
 will keep you on the edge of your seat. This game could be the best single-player game for the 
 Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REAL12
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I wanted this game when it first came out. My PC wasn't fast enough for it so I had to wait, until 
 now that is! I finally built a PC fast enough to play this properly and it was well worth the wait. 
 The story is new and interesting but I am finding that it isn't filled in enough, that there are 
 holes in it. Not enough to say the game sucked of course but for me, enough to notice. The graphics, 
 when turned up to max, are excellent. I really like the theme and the world structures are amazing. 
 Good textures, baddies are gruesome and fun to kill with a great assortment of weapons, all around 
 visually pleasing. The fact that weapons can be upgraded is a nice touch as well and the upgrade 
 is not just functional, it is a visual upgrade and the modified guns look sweeter every time you 
 mod them! Sound is on par with this type of game and is creepy and spooky in parts which adds to 
 the fun! So far this game has been exciting and addictive, I am not sure how far into it I am but 
 I have probably logged about 7-10 hours of play so far. I bought this game for about $30 bucks 
 on sale and would highly recommend it to anyone who loves a good first person shooter. My one complaint 
 is the lack of keyboard customization! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JwresB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  To survive this free-range sanitarium, the game's hero, Jack, must find his way out, using a killer 
 combo of firepower, special powers created via genetic alteration and the help of a man named Atlas, 
 the main rival to the city's messianic founder, Andrew Ryan.
  
  At the game's core, it's a first-person shooter, but unique environments and a tension-building 
 plotline keeps us playing just to see what happens next. Instead of roaming around generic warehouses 
 filled with metal boxes, Rapture's more of an art deco showroom, filled with ornate period architecture 
 and tongue-in-cheek billboards preaching the joys of genetic enhancement. Big metal bathyspheres 
 transport our hero from building to building and the blood-thirsty, yet fashionable, residents 
 look like they've been imported straight from the 1940s.
  
  Even though BioShock was built from the ground up as any Xbox 360 game, the PC version feels less 
 like a port and more like an organic PC game. The graphics, already stunning on the console version, 
 look even better at 1900x1200 resolution (if your computer can handle it) and include a host of 
 upgraded lighting and environmental effects.
  Of course, you can use an Xbox 360 wired controller to play the PC version of the game, but with 
 the traditional mouse-and-keyboard combo, firefights take on a whole different meaning, as veteran 
 WASD gamers will likely use the more precise controls to pull off headshots vs. using the wide-area 
 plasmid powers.
  
  Unlike another 360/PC combo, Oblivion, the menus in BioShock got a major overhaul for the PC. Instead 
 of mousing through weapon and power menus that were designed for thumbsticks and shoulder buttons, 
 the larger PC menus have a more RPG feel, and make it easier to jump into mid-battle, adjust your 
 weapons and powers and jump right back into the action.
  
  Every visual detail looks like it was examined through a microscope, including the more technical 
 graphical aspects. Top-notch water and lighting effects give this game that oh-so-real appearance, 
 which makes the journey into Rapture that much more believable -- something most other games struggle 
 with, usually due to budget constraints or getting rushed to get out the door to meet some un-moveable 
 deadline. 
  
  Weapons can be upgraded as your progress through the game, but upgrade stations are rare, so you 
 really have to consider which will get the most use. Ie found the shotgun very useful, so we were 
 sure to upgrade its rate of fire and its damage rates -- making it a formidable death-dealer.
 
  
  Special powers, earned through gene-altering "plasmids," bring in several more layers of customization. 
 These drugs enable Jack, with a simple hand gesture, to light enemies on fire, shock them, freeze 
 them, make them targets of the city's built-in security system or injure them with swarms of bugs 
 that erupt from his arm. While running around injecting oneself with random needles found on the 
 ground (the source of your plasmid's power) would be inadvisable by the FDA, those rules don't 
 apply in Rapture.
  
  Despite the pretty architecture, the game is essentially a linear corridor shooter, and those spoiled 
 by open-world experiences may feel like they're on a giant amusement park ride, rather than honestly 
 exploring a unique environment.
  
  Despite these minor gaffes, BioShock pretty much has it all. The first-person shooter's great looking, 
 has an engrossing storyline, a perfect balance of action and exploration and a totally customizable 
 combat system that can be described as nothing less than video game rapture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akivaria
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of FPS games, but I rather prefer games with spooky and intriguing stories. Bioshock 
 is both spooky and intriguing. The tale is told through a series of audiotapes picked up throughout 
 the game, featuring where you learn of Rapture's creation and ultimate downfall. 
  
  The game jumps you right into the action, without making you wait too long to get your feet wet. 
 The selection of weapons is good, but I've seen better. The complement to this is the plethora 
 of gene powers you obtain (Called plasmids) , which allow you to perform a number of strategically 
 fun attacks. (For example, one of these powers allows you to create a cyclone, sending your enemy 
 crashing into the ceiling.) You progress by gathering "adam," which is used to purchase plasmids 
 and gene tonics. (Gene tonics are essentially permanent stat and action buffs.)
  
  The action is fast-paced and gritty. Enemies are diverse in their number, powers, and attacks, 
 which give you a lot of variety in formulating your strategy and path through the game. Also, the 
 final boss is no slouch, and definitely worth the hours invested.
  
  Bioshock, however, is primarily about story, and the story told in this game is as good, if not 
 better than any I've experienced before. (I'd rate it up there with Final Fantasy games and Resident 
 Evil 4) The twist in the end could possibly even make your jaw drop.
  
  There are two things about this game that I disliked. First, the game started out with a good difficulty, 
 which got easier than I expected as I progressed. I rate it "just right" because it can be changed 
 by the user, but I'd have preferred it to be a bit harder. 
  
  Also, the ending was a bit shorter than I expected, given the healthy attention to the story throughout 
 the game. This is why it does not receive a ten. 
  
  All in all, easily one of the top ten games I've ever played. GET IT, and enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is one of those rare games that makes history and can easily represent a milestone in 
 video gaming. I'm trying to recall, but never before such a shooter (or an RPG?, what is Bioshock 
 exactly?) had taking so much care of the surroundings, the overall ambiance of the game, the music, 
 the gameplay, the story, etc to produce an spectacular package of endless playing time and fun. 
 With all due respect to Half Life fans, this game is better overall (and not Steam, thank God!) , 
 even if the end of the story is a bit disappointing in my opinion, and this is the only flaw I 
 found in the game. It is no surprise to me that they want to make a movie out of this game
  
  Bioshock takes the concept of a dystopian world and take it even further than Half Life did, 
 combining plenty of imagination with a field so contemporary as genetic engineering and the political 
 diatribe of the relentless effort of some regimes justifying the demise of a few for the benefit 
 of the many. Taking aside the evidently imaginary nature of the city, the characters and super-natural 
 powers that populate the game, the conflict and the eventual result of the decisions made by Rapture 
 leaders at its time will easily produce the same outcome on a real society, outcome that in fact 
 had occurred through history: collapse. And the great thing about Bioshock is that you can make 
 the story as thick as you want or as superficial as you want and will still enjoy the game very 
 much. Granted, if you let yourself immerse into Rapture's story and the suffocating atmosphere 
 of an underwater world going awful and question the entire story and facts, and live it, you will 
 remember this game for the rest of your life
  
  On the technical side, the game worked flawlessly for me at max settings on an entry level gaming 
 computer about a year old, with a 20" widescreen monitor. The graphics looked gorgeous and the 
 entire Rapture environment looked very real, with water pouring everywhere, rusted metal, scraps, 
 smoke, fire, electricity, etc. The game is also a great accomplishment on the technical side, with 
 a tremendous attention to detail and overall quality. I also didn't experienced any issues with 
 the DRM protection embedded into the game, so I can not comment on that, but I understand is real 
 and some people had complained with a reason. But Cheer-up! This is not Steam DRM foolishness, 
 not even close!
  
  I won't comment on the end of the game to avoid spoiling you the experience, and also to prevent 
 a bias on and ending that some of my friends found perfectly plausible and fine. I just think they 
 rushed it up a bit and it's somewhat disconnected with the premise of the game story. I don't now; 
 it just doesn't feel quite right. But enough, go ahead and play the game and see the end for yourself! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdcrane27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  Now, first off, I will admit that I am not really a big fan of first person shooters. Most of the 
 ones that I have played have a fairly shallow story-line and just seem more intent on satisfying 
 the instant gratification of running around shooting stuff up. Of course, if that's done right, 
 it can be very entertaining, but I guess I look for more than just entertainment in a game... more 
 than just something to kill the time. And Bioshock delivers that.
  
  The gameplay of the game is solid, but that's not what really impressed me. The story is simply 
 amazing. I would argue that it is probably one of the best developed stories (and "mythologies") 
 I've ever seen in a game. The fact that it is packaged into a FPS makes it even more impressive. 
 The makers of the game created a whole world in Rapture that is sheer creative genius. The characters 
 and creatures are unlike anything I've every really seen, and for something that's so incredibly 
 far-fetched, they made it almost believable.
  
  The gameplay, while not what impressed me most, is also worth talking about. Unlike your typical 
 FPS, you aren't just able to shoot guns. In Bioshock, you can also get involved with gene splicing, 
 which will allow you to harness certain other powers (electricity, fire, freezing... swarms of 
 bees) . This is what takes its gameplay to the whole next level. It allows for a lot of character 
 customization, and also will affect what you're allowed to do in the game. It also really adds 
 into the replayability.
  
  The other part of the game that I thought was really cool was the way that you were given a lot 
 more options. It's not as linear a game as most shooters are. Yes, there are objectives that you 
 need to fulfill, but it gives you a certain amount of leeway in how you will complete some of them. 
 It also has the choice of harvesting or saving the Little Sisters... both of which have their advantages, 
 and eventually will affect the way the game ends...
  
  All in all, an amazing game, one that has definitely earned the buzz it created and will be played 
 again (numerous times) by me in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benx009
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is truly a wonderful exemplar of how games these days should be done. Even from the beginning 
 of the game, you can tell that the creators put everything into the presentation of the game so 
 that you, the audience, would have a wonderful experience. Gameplay is absolutely fascinating, 
 not to mention slightly innovation (the hacking system comes to mind here) , so not only are you 
 going to be having fun following the game's story, but you'll also enjoy actually playing the game 
 as well. Admittedly, the game is quiet difficult at some parts, but the numerous health packs and 
 Vita-chambers littered through the game make it a much more easier experience. The graphics, powered 
 by UE3, are absolutely gorgeous to feast your eyes on, and you may sometimes find yourself stopping 
 just to observe some minor details since the game allows you the freedom to do those sorts of things. 
 From everything to the Big Daddies and Splicers to the Plasmids and host of weapons you get in 
 this game, there was almost nothing that didn't capture my fascination. There is no way you can 
 go wrong with this game.
  
  What I like most about Bioshock too is that it isn't pointless. It actually expands on some thought-provoking 
 themes of humanity and the society we live in today. For example, do human beings have the right 
 to artificially create other human beings by experimenting with stem cells?? Do we have the right 
 to, essentially, play God?? What is the role of the leader (s) in a society? As you can tell, a 
 lot of these themes are, of course, inspired by Ayn Rand's works, which is an automatic plus for 
 this game:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopyflyfish
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  BioShock is a narrative-driven action experience that allows players to do the impossible as they 
 journey through an amazing, immersive and terrifying world. Caught between powerful forces and 
 hunted down by genetically mutated citizens, the player will come to grips with the mysterious 
 and fascinating world of Rapture, a distinct Art Deco underwater utopia gone mad. BioShock not 
 only challenges the players' capacity to adapt and survive, but brings to question their values 
 and commitment to the inhabitants of Rapture. With smart and adaptive AI, no encounter ever plays 
 out the same, while numerous customization options provide gamers with an experience that adapts 
 to their playing style. There is so much that is perfect and clever and right about playing it 
 that it makes otherwise almost-imperceptible flaws stand out that much more. After playing through 
 it, i think that it's easily the most interesting and inventive shooter since Half-life 2, and 
 arguably one of the best games of the last 2 years. The world is as compelling and lifelike as you 
 want it to be. You can search most desks, crates, drawers, weapons, foes and environment. Or you 
 can ignore the exploration and miss out on all the nifty plasmids that you don't necessarily need 
 to complete the game, but are absolutely desirable and very, very cool. The game is a shooter. 
 You'll shoot a lot of stuff; you'll also electrocute, freeze, burn, lift and suspend, trick, manipulate, 
 trap and befuddle the aggressive and deformed inhabitants of Rapture, the undersea dystopia created 
 by billionaire genius and entrepreneur, Andrew Ryan. In that sense, like System Shock 2 or a game 
 like Half-life, no amount of exploration or experimentation ever really draws too far outside the 
 lines that the genre of the game isn't instantly apparent.
  
  BIOSHOCK PC SPECIFICATIONS
  
  Operating Systems:
  Windows XP (with Service Pack 2) or
  Windows Vista
  
  Minimum System 
 Requirements:
  CPU: Pentium 4 2.4GHz Single Core processor
  system RAM: 1GB
  Video Card: Direct X 9.0c compliant video card with 128MB RAM (NVIDIA 6600 or better/ATI X1300 
 or better, excluding ATI X1550) .
  Sound Card: 100% direct X 9.0c compatible sound card
  Hard disc space: 8GB free space
  
  Recommended System Requirements:
  CPU: Intel Core 2 Duo 
 processor
  System RAM: 2GB
  Video card:
  DX9: Direct X 9.0c compliant video card with 512MB RAM (NVIDIA GeForce 7900 GT or better)
  DX10: 
 NVIDIA GeForce 8600 or better
  Sound Card: Sound Blaster X-Fi series (Optimized for use with Creative Labs EAX ADVANCED HD 4.0 
 or EAX ADVANCED HD 5.0 compatible sound cards) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordasher2002
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  I sometimes shy away from saying I love this game because it is a bit of an F'd up game at first 
 glance, but it is really quite intelligent, unique and fun to play.
  
  At a time where I thought Gameplay with the videogames were becoming less and less inovative and 
 fun, BioShock has revealed its self and blew that notion of mine out of the water.
  
  I do believe the person behind this game is somewhat of genius, to create something fun like this 
 out of such a strange and out of this world concept.
  
  It is because of this game I realize how important a storyline and creative detail to a world that 
 becomes the playground is to video game.
  
  Now I'm more drawn to games that can successfully transport me into another world, this game has 
 done that, while keeping it extremely fun.
  
  There is a negative in here though that points towards how utterly screwed up the world of Rapture 
 is. Sometimes makes you feel a bit sick and disturbed mentally. 
  
  Don't play this game at night with the lights off.
  
  I would have given this game a 10 but 
 since some of the content is in bad taste I and makes you question the sanity of its creator, I 
 can't recommend this game to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePunisherBR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  That's Bioshock. A 1950 fantasy world, where the story is the main point of the game. Feels like 
 watching a movie, where you control the actions of the main character. Best 1st person shooter 
 i have ever played. I enjoyed more bioshock than Crysis. They are different, but i prefer bioshock.
 
  Turns-on:
  1- RPG elements, you can build your character (including the characteristics of your weapons, your 
 powers - called plasmids -, your abilities - engineering, physical and combat attributes, and other 
 customizations)
  2- Excellent ambiance and story
  3- "a touch of horror"
  4- Good combat system Problems? Some things may miss, but i loved the game just the way it is.
 
  Just one thing is missing. Some explainations. Nonetheless, it gives "a charm" to the game. The 
 mystery...
  That's all folks! (Bugs Bunny ending)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cristyrazvan
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  Ok, where should i start? 
  The story? Amazing, a completely new kind of a dystopia, as never seen before, with some unexpected 
 twists ( who would have thought that you are... ok, i won't spoil it, play it first ) , intriguing 
 characters and all that you want. 
  
  Graphics? Eye candy all way down (maybe not the cartoonish blood...) , interesting npc modeling, 
 fascinating sets. 
  
  Atmosphere? Dark, somber, intriguing, want more of it. 
  
  Good, not very good and very baaad decisions that will influence the ending make you think about 
 who you really are... thought killing... sorry, harvesting the little sisters seems tempting, as 
 they sometimes piss you off :)
  
  It kind of reminded me of System Shock 2, mixed with some HL2, and as these are two of my favs, 
 i loved it.
  
  Wonder if there will be a Bioshock 2... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 3:34 pm PT
Review:  The gaming industry has changed a lot during the years. It's become more of a business than anything 
 else and I feel that this has brought a lot of harm. The number of bland, overly accessible games 
 has rose to alarming rates. So it's no surprise that when a game like Bioshock comes along, the 
 media throws itself at its feet, proclaiming it a classic and all that jazz. It's a sad situation, 
 but I don't mean to imply that Bioshock isn't great, because it is. But it really isn't as great 
 as the hype or reviews suggest.
  
  By having so many things in common with System Shock 2 (SS2) , Bioshock kind of twisted its own 
 ankle. First, because it proves that it isn't as original as advertised, and second because the 
 implementation of these similar features is not as compelling as SS2's. But lets start with the 
 beginning. The story 'takes off' with a plane crash, which the main character (only known as Jack) 
 survives. He swims to this imposing lighthouse near by and inside he finds a bathysphere, which 
 takes him below the sea, to an underwater city called Rapture. The problem is that nothing in Rapture 
 is as it should be, the place is falling apart. So throughout your campaign you'll get the opportunity 
 to find out about the origins of the city and what exactly happened to bring it in such a disastrous 
 state.
  
  One thing you'll notice pretty quick is Bioshock's lovely art direction, a mix between steampunk 
 and art deco. It's cohesive, like very few games are, it's full of color, architecturally impressive 
 but also worn down by the struggle that took place within it's halls. Water makes its way through 
 every crack, the sea is slowly reclaiming the city. Despite being so worn down, Rapture is quite 
 an inviting place. It begs to be explored in full and also quite memorable, which is impressive 
 for sure.
  
  Besides the visuals, the audio is also top notch. Everything from ambient sounds to music to voice 
 acting feels like a perfect fit. Voice acting is especially impressive, every character has proper 
 accent and tone, if you consider the setting and their background.
  
  When it comes to gameplay, Bioshock isn't as solid though. The devs borrowed a lot of elements 
 from SS2, but not really the best ones. So unlike SS2, there's no more character creation, your 
 character can hack or use anything he wants from the get go. The inventory system is gone as well, 
 but considering that unlike SS2, Bioshock is basically just a shooter with a few twists, most of 
 these changes serve it's action-oriented style well. That doesn't change the fact that the system 
 as a whole is flawed, mainly because of a few major elements.
  
  First, they overdid it with the vita chambers. These chambers reconstruct the main character molecule 
 by molecule in case he dies, thus bringing him back to life. This is a problem, because you can't 
 die, thus eliminating a lot of the challenge and the sense of vulnerability. You know, vulnerability, 
 that feeling you'd get every single moment in SS2. The second problem is that there are way too 
 many items around. Ammo, med kits and everything else you need is just littered all over the place, 
 making the struggle for survival considerably less dramatic than it should have been. Actually, 
 to hell with survival, once they put a vita chamber everywhere, survival was no longer an issue. 
 Also, you can pick up all sorts of junk and use it to craft useful items (like ammo) , which is 
 an interesting system. However, there's way too much junk around, so you'll always be able to craft 
 whatever you need.
  
  Besides these two major problems, there's also a smaller problem: plausibility. How the hell does 
 one explain that gene modification can make you shoot bees, or fire, or ice from your bear hands? 
 The whole gene splicing thing Bioshock has going on is a bit thin. You'll see for yourself if it 
 bugs you or not. Personally, I'm not the type of gamer that needs everything to be realistic and 
 plausible, but even so, the powers you get from gene splicing feel a bit forced.
  
  To wrap up the part about gameplay, I'll just point out that weapons and powers feel OK when used. 
 The interface can be a bit of pain because you constantly need to switch between weapons and powers... 
 but it works well enough to ensure a fluid experience.
  
  When it comes to story, Bioshock manages to present a gripping enough narrative with interesting 
 characters (which you mostly meet through audio logs, just like in SS2) and a fairly interesting 
 plot twist. The problem is, if you've played SS2 then you'll see it coming a mile away. Actually, 
 much of the story is copy-pasted from SS2, so that was disappointing for me. A bit more originality 
 would have been nice. And don't believe the hype, there are no tough moral choices, except one. 
 But the extreme contrast between the two options you are given makes it rather disappointing.
 
  
  To wrap things up I'll just say that despite these glaring flaws, Bioshock is still plenty fun 
 and well worth playing. Specially because Rapture is such a lovely place. Looking at the big picture, 
 Bioshock stacks above most shooters that came out in recent years because it tries (and mostly 
 succeeds) to bring a bit of depth to the genre. So yes, try it if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is one of those games that comes along and starts kicking ass. from the start you already 
 in the action. the game is scary through out though the start is the scariest part, since you do 
 ahev to attack basically everyone with a wrench.
  
  Good: Graphics look AWSOME!!! from the facial expresions while you pumble, shoot or blow up anything 
 that stand in your way is great. big daddy's and little sisters look stunning. guns all feel powerful, 
 and upgrades makes you unstopable yet not making the gameplay unbalanced. The AI is relevively 
 smart. trying to flank you, or just head on, mado eh mado. also enimies get harder to kill as you 
 progress throught eh game, making the game grow as you go through it. unlike games which you feel 
 unstopable after a few missions/levels. Magic thingo's from your hands (i forget what it was called 
 ok) makes things interesting as you find more ways to kill your opponents. weither its setting 
 traps for them, or jsut setting them on fire. 
  
  Bad: some thenical glitches and bugs, somethimes making you restart the whole level. Some AI are 
 stupid, walking past you, or just trying to kill a little sister (which is impossiable without killing 
 big daddy) scariness starts to weither away around the middle of the game, unless you are useing 
 a wrench, but it starts to go away becasue you dont get close enough to get scaried. 
  
  But if you can look over those little bugs in the game, it a great game. from useing you enviroment 
 to your advantage to hacking into machines to do your bidding and just plain ol' run and gun. what 
 ever your style of FPS player youa re this game is a must buy, or at least a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M-a-h-m-o-u-d
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for shooter with a deep, involving storyline and an exceptionally immersive 
 world, that pulls you in and does not let you go, then Bioshock is a game you will certainly want 
 to check out.
  since i have played system shock 2 and i am looking forward for the next part ... and here it is... and 
 realy bioshok is nice game.. since it's realm is underwater ... and gives you the ability to upgrade 
 your skills and your weapons .. and the most beautiful thing in the game is when you choose to rescue 
 these little sisters ... you feel like if you are happy and helping your daughters... as for the 
 graphic .. all i can say it's realy outstanding .. you realy feel as if you are inside the game.. 
 
  upgrading weapons addes new parts in it.. making you feel the game more.
  the progress in the game depends on your reactions and your decisions... so it's not just shoot 
 and run game..
  
  all i can say is this game is awsome and worth playing . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1615
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  The Good - an amazing atmosphere and story introduction places you superbly in a 1950's era world. 
 You can customize your play style to get through the game as a classic shooter, bio-tech power 
 player, or a hybrid of both. Weapons and bio-tech can be upgraded so you are not waiting for the 
 next great weapon to switch to. Good story and audio. Some classic one liners in terms of story 
 telling and mobs. The game graphics look great even on a modest PC.
  
  The bad - the story nose dives towards the end and seems rushed. The ending cut scenes seem rushed 
 also. This is not a "classic" PC shooter in terms of old school (stand there and blow everything 
 away with your guns like in Doom) or new school (hide behind objects and make head shots like in 
 FEAR) . The game plays more like Oblivion where you are constantly moving and weaving. This is not 
 bad thing (i liked it) unless you expected more of a FPS game.
  
  The Ugly - Too many mini-bosses/ NPC use the same model as the enemy mobs, they could not have 
 created a couple of more models?
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohitmukheja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Well this is one of those games which will absorb u completly. My review and views are based on 
 my love for the category of gaming and this game rocks in action/fps category.
  the graphics are amazing. the best part in the game are sounds and AI. 
  play this game with 
 good headsets on and u will be blown away. Ai is pretty good too. u will have to aim properly to 
 shoot. Peopel say that this game is easy as if u die u are regenrated near by with ammo and health. 
 well i say if that wasnt there then the game would have become very difficult. so well they have 
 made the game very carefully keeping in mind all kinds of gamers - pros and noobs both.
  The story line is pretty straight. 
  Graphics amazing
  sound amaizng
  gameplay amazing
 
  Ai very good
  
  u can play the game the way u want. either play as a rambo or kill like a ninja with stealth. lots 
 of weapons. and u can use ur environment also. 
  this is very imp part as the use of environment will give u a lot of freedom. 
  i like games 
 like residentevil and trust me this is better than that. 
  game is complete fun and is worth playing for anyone who likes action and fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowJello
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is a science fiction first person shooter that takes on some features of a role playing 
 game (such as the ability to power up your weapons and powers) that takes place in the year 1960. 
 When the game first begins, you are on an airplane, looking through the eyes of a man named Jack, 
 who is talking about how his parents told him how special and unique he was when he was little. 
 After he finishes his little monologue, the airplane suddenly crashes into the middle of the ocean. 
 
  
  When you open your eyes, you are under water, surrounded by pieces of the airplane and the other 
 passengers' personal belongings. You swim to the surface to find the burning wreckage of the plane 
 and you notice a tower not too far away from where your plane crashed. As you enter this tower, 
 the lights come on to reveal a very large, red banner that says, "No Gods or Kings, only Man." 
 
  
  You continue down the path to find an elevator that takes you into the depths of the ocean. As 
 you descend deeper and deeper into the ocean, the creator of this city known as Rapture, Andrew 
 Ryan, is projected onto a wall in front of you, giving you a short speech about why he created 
 this city. When his speech ends, the wall comes down the reveal the stunning under water, 1950s 
 city glowing with beauty and style. 
  
  As you are taken into the city, you see various creatures of the deep ocean swimming between buildings 
 and very large armored creatures walking inside of the protected paths between the buildings. From 
 here, you are introduced to the horrors that have happened here, and the genetic enhancements known 
 as Plasmids which alter your DNA to give you the power over things like electricity, fire, and 
 ice. Welcome to Rapture, the under water city from Hell.
  
  The gameplay in Bioshock is not totally original but it mixes a lot of things that have been done 
 before that have never really been used together in such a way. It takes a lot of ideas first used 
 in the System Shock games and mixes them with RPG style features such as the ability to power up 
 your weapons and powers and puts it in a 1950s under water environment. The idea may sound silly 
 in theory, but in practice it makes for incredible gameplay and fantastic story telling.
  
  The arsenal of guns in Bioshock is pretty average in the beginning of the game; you get your basic 
 shotgun, magnum, and melee weapon (a wrench) , but as you go through the game, the weapons become 
 much more creative; you start to find different ammo types for your weapons, such as anti-personnel 
 and armor piercing bullets. Later in the game, you find more types of weapons (the ones that don't 
 just shoot bullets) , but I'll leave those for you to find.
  
  You also get genetic enhancements called plasmids which alter your DNA to give you the power to 
 shoot various things like electricity, fire, and ice from your finger tips. These powers are great 
 for stunning your foes in order to get a good hit on them while they are incapacitated. You can 
 upgrade your powers to do more damage or have longer lasting effects by buying upgrades using what 
 is called ADAM, which can be taken from the little sisters who are guarded by the very large creature 
 known as Big Daddy. You have a choice between harvesting or rescuing these little sisters after 
 killing their guardians; harvesting the little sisters gets you more ADAM and makes the game much 
 easier than rescuing them, but rescuing them gets you gifts and upgrades from the little sisters. 
 There are also two endings to the game, depending on whether you decide to harvest the little sisters 
 or rescue them.
  
  Bioshock has some fantastic graphics, but at times it seems like it's pretty excessive with the 
 bump maps. The faces of the characters look a little off because of the heavy bump mapping and 
 it kind of kills the life-like feeling of the game. But since most enemies have masks on, that 
 isn't really that big of a deal. Other than that, the graphics are fantastic. As stated before, 
 the style of the game is done perfectly, if there really was an under water city from the 1950s, 
 I'm pretty sure it would probably look something like that. There really isn't much else to say 
 about them since there is only really one problem with them.
  
  The story of Bioshock is very strong and very well done. Throughout the game, you figure out missing 
 pieces of information about yourself and the other supporting characters who speak to you through 
 the radio. If you aren't big on following the stories in a game, you can still play this and appreciate 
 it for its fun factor. To me, this means that it was done right.
  
  As stated before, Bioshock uses ideas from other games and mixes them together in a way that has 
 never been done before. This makes for very original gameplay and very cool storytelling. For me 
 this is one of the main selling points of the game.
  
  Sadly, despite the multiple endings of the game, there isn't much replay value since the only thing 
 that changes is the ending. The entire game is just about the same up to the ending whether you 
 rescue all of the little sisters or if you harvest all of them.
  
  Overall, Bioshock is a definite buy if you can run it at least on medium settings on your PC. It's 
 a very fun game that re-enforces the idea that while looks don't make the gameplay, they can very 
 much so enhance it. If you don't like this game, I don't think you should playing video games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorproof
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  An okay game with a nice storyline. If you are into modern shooting game with alien type monsters 
 and high tech guns, then this game will disappoint you. Bioshock actually is a very simple game. 
 The only thing that was totally awesome about this game was the environment. Villains are not that 
 scary looking but then again it does match the story of the game. Some places will creep the hell 
 out of you while others you will feel like a stroll in the park. Some concepts of the game will 
 inventions, photography, hacking makes it a bit interesting. But I did get bored during the second 
 level. The final 2 chapters was just great. Just more than you expected. This game is way better 
 than a majority of the games being released these days. If you have some time to spare and love 
 FPS games with some nice storyline, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Every one said this game was great so i pedaled out the cash for it and it was just so weird and 
 repetitive that I cant even play it past the part about the gardens. The graphics are to cartoony 
 for me and the game play is some of the duelist i have ever played since EAs BLACK. It literly 
 feels like i'm killing the same guy over and over its a great idea for a game but to me it just 
 didn't live up to its hype. Some say the game changes every time you beat it, i guess ill never 
 know its just so boring to me, and i tried playing this game and well its about as much fun as 
 solitary is to me which is not fun. This game was a disappointment and the political part of it 
 just pisses me off i'm for the hard working man not the high rollers who aint known a hard days 
 work, this does not apply to all rich people. Well to sum it up this game was a let down to me 
 and its boring as hell. So I would not recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is one of those games that you just gotta' play. Seriously!
  
  The story is excellent and very well layed out. There are some exciting and suprising twists thrown 
 in aswell for good measure. 
  
  The graphics are as expected, excellent and the lighing is perfect. The weapons feel nice and are 
 very easy to use during eather combat or strategic purposes.
  
  The idea of the inventor machine is a great addition to the game, allowing you to make your own 
 ammo and such. Also the powers you can obtain are brillient, anything from fire to ice, useing 
 them are super easy and very affective if used right.
  
  The enemys are also awesome here as they are crazy, seriously crazy at that. They are armed with 
 guns and other items, all to bash your head in with. The little sisters and big daddys are great 
 and the fights with the big daddys are also excellent.
  
  One problem with the game is that there is so much little replay value with it as there is no MP 
 mode at all. You may complete it about 2 - 3 times before you get bored of this game. Also Hard 
 mode is way to easy.
  
  Putting the 2 bad points to one side the game gets a well deserved 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmace86
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  Bioshock, the newest game from developer Irrational Games (and indeed their final game as they 
 have since split to form 2K Boston and 2K Australia) is a huge accomplishment in video games, bringing 
 several innovations to the over-populated first-person shooter genre and raising the bar for storytelling 
 in video games.
  From the moment you set foot in Rapture, the eerie, underwater city in which Bioshock is set, you 
 are given a sense that you are playing a game that is going to offer much more than your typical 
 FPS and this sense will be proven true throughout the course of the game as you are thrust into 
 unfamiliar situations, enveloped in a terrific atmosphere and sucked deeper and deeper into an 
 excellently written and well presented storyline.
  
  The game begins with you (or more accurately, Jack, the protagonist of Bioshock) on a plane as 
 it is crashing into the ocean. After the crash you find yourself swimming towards a huge tower 
 rising up in front of you and within it find a Bathysphere (a kind of underwater shuttle) that 
 takes you down into Rapture. On your arrival you are treated to a scene showing what life in Rapture 
 is like as you witness the brutal murder of a man by a Splicer, one of the horrifically disfigured 
 and mentally damaged inhabitants of the terrifying world you have entered. Following the murder 
 you are greeted, via radio, by Atlas, who becomes your guide for the duration of the game and one 
 of the few allies you will have on your mission to find and kill Andrew Ryan, the maniacal founder 
 of Rapture who enjoys sending you taunting radio messages along with legions of Splicers intent 
 on spilling your blood.
  Rapture was founded to be a Utopia for forward thinking members of humanity where, in the words 
 of Andrew Ryan: 'The artist would not fear the censor and where the scientist is not constrained 
 by petty morality.' Something however, has gone horribly wrong, as Atlas tells you: 'Plasmids changed 
 everything; they destroyed our bodies, our minds. We couldn't handle it. The whole city went to 
 Hell.'
  The story of Bioshock advances via occasional cutscenes (the view never leaving the 1st-person 
 perspective even during these cinematics) , through radio messages and through numerous audio diaries 
 found dotted around Rapture that fill you in on some of the back-story of the city and its inhabitants 
 and offer information about where to go next.
  
  As you make your way through Rapture you will find several different weapons, all fairly standard 
 for the genre, such as a pistol, a machine gun and a shotgun. Every weapon in the game, apart from 
 the wrench (your first weapon) , can be upgraded during the course of the game, increasing the damage 
 that they deal, their ammo capacity, firing speed, etc. Each weapon also has three separate ammo 
 types with varying levels of effectiveness against the different enemies that you will face. For 
 example the pistol has standard pistol ammo along with anti-personnel rounds, which are especially 
 effective against the Splicers, and armour-piercing rounds, which are particularly useful against 
 the mechanical sentry drones and gun turrets controlled by Rapture's security system. 
  This security system can be hacked and turned against your Splicer enemies. The hacking is done 
 in the form of a mini-game where you move sections of pipe around a square board in order to create 
 a path for a liquid to flow through. It sounds easy and it is at first, but later in the game the 
 liquid's flow speed increases and the number of pipe sections decreases, making the mini-game much 
 more challenging. 
  
  Throughout Rapture you will also find Plasmids, gene implants which grant access to spectacular 
 powers, such as telekinesis or the ability to deliver a stunning, electric shock to your enemies. 
 The use of these Plasmids requires Eve, which can be found in hypodermic needles and can also be 
 replenished by eating or drinking (or occasionally smoking) some of the consumables that you will 
 find during the game. Upgraded versions of almost all of the plasmids can be found or purchased 
 later in the game Plasmids need to be equipped to one of your Plasmid slots, you begin the game 
 with only two slots allowing you to access only two different plasmids at any one time, but this 
 number can be upgraded to six slots during the course of the game. 
  Similar to the Plasmids are Gene Tonics, also found throughout Rapture, which grant you special 
 abilities. The Gene Tonics fall into one of three categories "Physical Tonics", which have effects 
 such as allowing you to heal more from a first aid kit, "Engineering Tonics", which have an effect 
 such as increasing your hacking ability, and "Combat Tonics", which may allow you to deal more 
 damage with the wrench or take less damage from enemies. Like Plasmids, each of the three categories 
 has slots for the tonics, at first you have only two slots per category but this can also be upgraded 
 to six, just like the Plasmid slots.
  
  A little way into the game you will run into your first Little Sister and her guardian, a Big Daddy. 
 The Big Daddies are extremely tough enemies capable of dealing and receiving huge amounts of damage, 
 making them rather frightening opponents, especially early in the game when you have very few plasmids 
 and weapons. However, you will need to kill the Big Daddies if you want to get to the Little Sisters 
 that they guard, and you will want to get to them because it is they who carry Adam, 'The genetic 
 material that keeps Rapture running', which you will need in order to spend at "Gatherer's Gardens" 
 (special vending machines found throughout Rapture) to increase your maximum health and Eve, as 
 well as to unlock new slots to hold your Plasmids and gene tonics and to purchase new Plasmids 
 and Gene Tonics.
  
  Another item that you will find in Rapture is the camera, a very useful item by all accounts. By 
 taking pictures of your enemies you begin to research them and after accumulating enough research 
 points from a particular enemy you are given a bonus relating to that enemy, often you will be 
 rewarded with the ability to do more damage to that type of enemy in the future, but sometimes 
 you will gain a Plasmid or Tonic or gain a small increase in your maximum health and Eve. 
  The number of research points you gain after taking a picture of an enemy can be altered by several 
 factors. If you manage to take an 'Action Shot' (such as a Splicer leaping through the air towards 
 you) or take pictures of multiple enemies, then you are rewarded with a greater amount of research 
 points than you would otherwise receive. If you photograph the same enemy twice though, or take 
 a picture once they are already dead, then you will gain a smaller amount of research points. You 
 can usually take three or four pictures of any one enemy before you cease gaining research points 
 from it.
  
  Bioshock has some of the best atmosphere that I have ever experienced in a game (and I have played 
 a great deal of games) , forcing you through a series of emotions, from a nervous tension, as you 
 walk through the eerily quiet corridors of Rapture, to out-right panic, as you are attacked by 
 a group of Splicers that seem to come from nowhere, to pity as you bring down a Big Daddy, leaving 
 behind a Little Sister to cry over his corpse, imploring him to get up.
  Speaking of the Little Sisters brings up another important part of the game, and one of the things 
 that causes Bioshock to stand out from the vast amount of first-person shooters released in recent 
 months, the choice that you must make when you come across a Little Sister to either harvest her, 
 or to rescue her. Harvesting the Little Sister gives you a larger amount of Adam than if you are 
 to rescue the Little Sister, but kills her (and makes you feel like a real bastard) . Rescuing the 
 Sisters not only saves you from feelings of guilt, but also results in you being sent rewards later 
 in the game by Dr. Tenenbaum, who was involved in the creation of the Little Sisters, in the form 
 of extra Adam and other items, such as Plasmids, first aid kits and money.
  
  Graphically, Bioshock looks amazing, the water and fire effects are some of the best in any game, 
 the textures are all highly detailed and the animations are extremely realistic. The game's physics 
 engine is also very impressive, with thrown objects following a realistic path through the air, 
 enemies crumpling to the ground when struck with small arms fire and flying back when hit with 
 an explosive. Everything in the world seems to have a real sense of weight to it. The lighting 
 in the game is impressive for the most part with realistic bloom effects and reflections, but I 
 did notice the occasional peculiarity. For example, at one point I was standing directly between 
 a light source and a wall and yet I cast no shadow whatsoever on the wall. It hardly ruined the 
 game for me, but it did take me out of the experience just a little.
  
  The world of Rapture is divided up into several distinct parts, managing to have quite a varied 
 selection of environments to explore, despite the relatively small world in which the game is set, 
 from flourishing arboretums and gardens to frozen-over or flooded sections of the city. The sections 
 of the city that you visit are not presented in a totally linear fashion and you are free to go 
 back to previously explored sections of the city whenever you want to try out your new powers and 
 weapons or to find useful pick-ups that you may have previously missed, however, the game never 
 forces you to re-tread old ground.
  Checkpoints are frequent throughout Rapture in the form of Vita-Chambers. Upon dying you are almost 
 instantly brought back to life (along with a decent amount of health and Eve) at the nearest Vita-Chamber. 
 The Vita-Chambers are one of the only problems that I have with the game, they make progress through 
 the game too simple, as every time that you come back to life all of your enemies remain at the 
 health they were at when you were killed. This means that with enough patience you will always 
 be able to advance through every part of the game, without the need to go back and pick up some 
 more ammo or health, because you can simply come back to life again and again, each time slowly 
 whittling down the health of your enemies until they are all dead and you can continue on your 
 journey. This is not a terrible thing, as it can be very frustrating when you reach a point in 
 a game where you simply cannot go on without first retracing your path and finding more items/weapons/ammo, 
 but it certainly cheapens your sense of accomplishment as you do not really need to be good at 
 the game to advance, you simply need to have a little patience. You can elect to turn off the Vita-Chambers, 
 but if you want to do this you will have to learn to frequently use the quick-save feature as you 
 will be dying a lot throughout the course of the game.
  
  If you are looking for shooter with a deep, involving storyline and an exceptionally immersive 
 world, that pulls you in and does not let you go, then Bioshock is a game you will certainly want 
 to check out. 
  It is a pretty good length for a game of its genre, taking about 10 hours to beat the first time 
 around and you will probably want to play through it at least twice in order to see the two different 
 endings, one if you rescue all the Little Sisters and one if you harvest them. 
  The ease with which the game can be completed, due to the Vita-Chambers, is a little disappointing 
 and the final boss is very easy and seems to be a little bit forced, as if the development team 
 felt that they needed to include a boss fight, but the game's flaws are easily over-shadowed by 
 all of the things that Bioshock does well, such as its brilliant story, beautiful environments 
 and impressive technological achievements, and certainly does not detract much from the experience 
 of this exceptionally fine game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyugacrysis
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  Having played the game through and gone a fair bit through my second attempt I felt compelled to 
 give my final assesment of BioShock.
  
  Definatley a slow burner, I was initially convinced the game was never going to live up to all 
 the hype. The demo really didn't do it justice and only really showed off the excellent graphics.
 
  The game really comes into it's own after a few hours when you begin to immerse yourself in the 
 world of Rapture, an underwater city created by mad idealist Andrew Ryan. The story is very cleverly 
 unfolded by tape recordings left lying around allowing you to try and piece together to the various 
 causes of the city's downfall and the inhabitants. The voice acting is very good and really helps 
 to develop a great story. Story is definatley a key element in this game and it feels very much 
 like an interactive work of fiction. Deserving of it's 18 certificate, the game is dark and disturbing 
 but has a strong enough plot to justify the shocking events as opposed to games like as manhunt 
 which just use gore and mindless violence for the sake of it.
  There have been a number of technial issues with the game and a few reviews have been critial of 
 this in their scroing. For me the game does struggle to run reliably on the PC but I have had no 
 issues playing it on the 360. Graphically the two versions are virtually identical and unless you 
 have a very beafy PC (at least Geforce 8800) then XBox version will provide a much better experience 
 especially at 1080P.
  The sound in this game is very good and played through decent 5.1 THX system sounds incredible. 
 The low rumbles of the Big Daddy as he moans and his heavy footfalls really test the subwoofer. 
 Gunshot sound a little weaker then I would like but otherwise I can't fault it.
  In conclusion, certainly one of the best FPS ever it not the best, a very close contest between 
 it and Half life 2. Bioshock definatley has the better and more involving story but Half life 2 
 has better puzzle and gameplay elements.
  Bioshock is set in the underwater city of Rapture. 2K games successfully weave a gripping FPS-story 
 around narrow tunnels and flooded rooms. As the unwitting hero, you use either weapons or Plasmid-abilities 
 with very beautiful visual effects. The graphics quality seems very similar under DirectX 9 and 
 DirectX 10. One obvious exception is the way water is rendered, which has real waves in DirectX 
 10. If you'd like to learn more about Bioshock, take a look at our full review.
  
  and persion previews
  :  
      
      
     
      
     
     .  
   bioshock   
      
      
    
 .      
     
    
      
      
     
    
      
     
     
 .
  :   
    
     
    .  
    
      
    
      
     
      
 .   
      
   .    
      
   
   .   
     
   .  
       
   .  
     . 
     
      
     
       
      
     
      
      
      
      
    
     
   .   
     
       
    
 
  :   
     
      
     
   : 
     
      
 .     
      
    
     
     
  .   1960  
    
     
     
     
    
      
   .    
      
 ...  
      
      
      
     
   
     
      
      
     
    . 
     
   
       
   .  
      
      
     
      
     
     
      
     
     
      
    . 
      
   ...   
      
     
    
    
 .     
     
 .      
    
      
    . 
       
     
     . 
      
     
      
      
      
      
   :"  
     
     
      
    
    
      
      
     
 .      
    
    
     
      
     
     
     
     
     . 
     
     
      
     
     
   . 
     
      
     
      
      
     
   
     
      
     
     
     
     
      
 .     
    
      
    
    
     
   . 
     
     
     
      
     
    
     
     
    
      
     
    
      
     
      
      
   
     
     
     
 .     
      
      
     
 .   
     
      
  .   
     
      
     
      
    " 
     
     
    
      
      
     .  
      
       
  .  
     
       
     .  
      
      
    .. 
     
      
      
 ....
       
       
      
       
     
     
    . 
     
     
    
 .     
     
   W, S, D, A   
     
     . 
     
     
     
  .    
     
      
      
     
      
      
     
     
    
  .   
     
     
    
     
     
    
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
   .  
      
     
     
      
      
       
    
      
    
     
     
     
    
      
  .  
    
      
     
      
    
     
   .   
     
    . 
      
    
  .   
     
     
   . 
     
     
     
   
      
     
 .   
     
      
     
     
    
      
     
  .   
      
      
      
     
      
       
  .  
      
     
     
      
       
     
   .  
     
    
     
    
     
      
   . 
     
     
     
      
      
     
 .   
     
      
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
     
      
     
     
     
     
      
     
  . 
     
     
    
    
     
 .    
     
    ( 
   )  
      
   
     .
 
  In terms of videogames, BioShock is probably old news now. Winning a slew of awards and becoming 
 the darling of the videogame journalist world, BioShock faded into relative obscurity after a flurry 
 of accolades following its August release. Certainly it wasn't that the games quality waned over 
 the following months, it is just that its single player only gameplay was soon lost admits a slew 
 of Online Enabled First Person Shooters
  During the game you'll be given three essential Plasmids for free, the rest you have to earn or 
 buy with ADAM. ADAM is very hard to obtain, in fact there's only one way to obtain it in the game. 
 Created by filtering certain genetic information through a living host ADAM can only be found by 
 confronting creatures known as Little Sister. Little Sisters are the children of Rapture, genetically 
 modified to process ADAM, walking incubators for a bizarre sea slug which produces ADAM. If you 
 wish to buy more Plasmids and Tonics you'll have to hunt these Little Sisters down. However they 
 are never on their own, they are always followed around by their guardians. Terrifying biomechanical 
 creatures named Big Daddies serve as the Little Sisters bodyguards. Looking like a cross between 
 a Deep Sea Diver and a DIY shop the Big Daddies are perhaps the fiercest opponents in BioShock, 
 the first few encounters most likely proving to be more epic than the player expected. Angry, fast, 
 and nigh on invulnerable the Big Daddies are enough of an obstruction to make ADAM a premium as 
 it is. However BioShock has another wrinkle in regards to Little Sisters.
  If there's one thing the game gets wrong, it is the difficulty level. Whilst the game starts off 
 hard enough, once you get yourself some Plasmids and Tonics the game never really makes an attempt 
 to challenge you. The enemies do become more difficult to kill as the game continues, but your 
 options for destruction and sheer brute power pretty much outmatch them from the fourth level on. 
 With plentiful ammo, the ability to alter your base abilities with tonics, and a selection of exceptionally 
 effective plasmids at your disposal the difficulty curve becomes more of a freefall off the side 
 of a cliff. By the second half of the game the weapons only become a necessity for artistic purposes, 
 the almighty wrench proving to be the endbringer in pretty much every encounter. While it is wise 
 to whip out a shotgun for the more stubborn varieties of Big Daddy the game can be completed with 
 judicious use of the initial Electro Bolt Plasmid and your trusty wrench, in fact this method is 
 the most efficient means of defeating enemies in most cases
  The fact that BioShock can still be unbelievably eerie even with the ability to cut down swathes 
 of Splicer at a time is a testament to the design of the game. The developers know how to push 
 the right kind of psychological buttons to panic their players and in doing so they can make the 
 most innocuous occurrences seem almost demonic. When, on the fourth level, a jukebox begins to 
 play "How Much Is That Puppy In The Window" and the player becomes immediately anxious you know 
 that something has been done right.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aluparatha
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  the best way to describe bioshock is one of those games where you have to play it. no words can 
 descibe the effect that bioshock creates whilst playing and after completeing it. bioshock is basically 
 about this underwater city built in the middle of the atlantic ocean, you play a guy named jack 
 and you arrive there by a plane crash. how does this plane coincidentally land near rapture well 
 thats one of those mysteries that you want to figure out as soon as you start playing. once arrived 
 there you already can tell that something is has gone seriously wrong. i wont go into too much 
 detail but lets just say its one hell of a journey. bioshock plays simply like a fps except with 
 a twist, in the world of rapture you have what we call plasmids which basically let you shoot out 
 superpoweres through your hand. not giving too much away you would have stuff like electrictity 
 and fire and more so as you progress. the graphics are amazing and are stunning to look at. the 
 sound and voice acting are all great nothing is out of the ordinary here it all seems perfect and 
 so well done. playing bioshock especially at night with the lights off and volume high it gives 
 you this sense of feeling that you re actually in the game and you re always tracing your footsteps 
 and being careful where you walk as an enemy could pop up from anywhere. bioshock overall is easy 
 to recommend for all gamers. whether you re an action fan of hack and slash games like devil may 
 cry and ninja gaiden or 3rd person shooter fans of gears of war or even rpg fans of final fantasy. 
 this game is a must play no matter what kind of gamer you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katwomansz
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  I put off buying Bioshock because of all the news of problems when it first came out.
  Well now (May 2008) with the autudownload patch I had no issues at all. There was even an auto 
 link download for a Creative soundcard patch.
  I was also put off the the two activations I had read about, now that's up to 5 and you can revoke 
 the activation after installation and finishing the game.
  
  PC games have to do something, like Steam, to try to combat piracy and I'm happy to say, like Steam, 
 Bioshock activation was a cinch for me.
  
  Now about the game! Wow glad I didn't miss this gem.
  I will award it with my first 10 ever. 
 Played fine with my older Nvidia 6800 and single core Intel 3.4 GHz CPU at 1024x 768.
  
  Up to date beautiful eye candy mixed with cyberpunk. A treasure to explore with a map so you don't 
 get lost if you want it. They even have an optional arrow, which allows you to search the whole 
 place without getting lost.
  Many options for difficulty. This game can be too easy on easy with the revitalization chambers 
 and frequent health and bullets. So ramp up the hardness options, there is even a hardness patch. 
 But for weekend warriors, this can be a fun FPS stroll with less concern about mere death.
  And a good quicksave, level, and anytime save options.
  
  And don't forget the 5.1 sound. Good 
 voice acting and music complete the scene. This is one of the few games that truly transported 
 me to another world with a good story to boot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _gaguinho_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  BioShock is the kind of game that deserve merits mostly because of its history, the graphics are 
 very good, the architecture of Rapture is beautifully done, the dystopian scenario is great, the 
 engine has no problems, the music and the sound are good as well and the voice acting is fantastic 
 but the history is what truly deserves our applauses, despite being somewhat linear the history 
 has an interesting pace, deep and realistic characters like the founder of Rapture Andrew Ryan, 
 the geneticist Bridgette Tennebaum and the mysterious Atlas, the man that guides the player through 
 Rapture and we cannot forget the scary Litle Sister and her deadly watcher the Big Daddy, those 
 may seem to be simple intriguing supporting characters but they have an important place at the 
 game history.
  The action is very good also, the player don't rely only on weapons, through the game you will 
 be given Plasmids, a substance that alter your genetic code to give you "superpowers", one plasmid 
 give the player the ability to use telekinesis, you can throw object on your enemies such as fuel 
 barrels, throw back grenades or take items that are out of your reach, other to fire bolts of electricity 
 to stun your enemies or kill them when they are on the water or the power to incinerate your enemies 
 and objects by clicking your fingers. In the overall the game is definitely worth your playing, 
 if you like FPS games with a grounded history such as Half Life and Halo you won't be disappointed 
 with BioShock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasha8su
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  A top notch game, very polished and well thought out. very unique and intriguing plot, and very 
 entertaining given the limited longevity the game provides.
  
  This one could have been epic, or even on the same scale as titles like Oblivion, but i guess the 
 game was left small for a potential sequel, that being said i would love the sequel to have infinitive 
 gameplay, more dynamic character building, and the implimentation of interaction with NPC's in 
 the game world.
  
  L. ots of Fratcure was un-explored during the game and leaves vast area's for new content, the potential 
 for this game is huge and can only hope it continues in it's current direction.
  
  The only problem of developing games like this is you give the player a taste of an extremely fun 
 atmospheric and story driven game, but by the time you are fully imersed in it the games over, 
 that's why i see merrit in the idea of taking more time to give games like this more longevity 
 and the resources for modification from 3rd parties, until new content is delivered from the Devs, 
 other wise people like me move on quickly and the Hype is lost.
  
  Final verdict : the game is awesome, but way too short. 
  
  
  
  
  so fingers crossed 
 for a bigger better Fracture next time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_rock_74
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Ok every thing about this game is great on the pc edition the grafics are every good one this that 
 was great about the game was when you first get your powers it is a very inventive way to get it. When 
 you first get a look at the city dont be like"o it is sooo pretty" well it isn't when you go in 
 to the buildings. Then one bad part of the game is it is a little short but when you beat it once 
 you will be like"Wow that was short and fun let me play it again" trust me i have played it many 
 of times i say this every time! If you really like this game you will also love the first person 
 shotter games on the pc (pursonal computer) ! If you dont play the games much on the pc i will tell 
 you get it for the 360 if you have one but it might be out for onther system but the only one i 
 know of is the pc and xbox 360. So thank for reading my review and i hope you will love this game 
 like many others have!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brettoxford
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  Without a doubt, this is THE best game I have ever played for 2 reasons. 1. I am a huge Ayn Rand 
 fan so everything made total sense, all the dialog, the story, the characters, everything. If you 
 know anything about Ayn Rand or have read her work, buy this game. 2. The concept and story are 
 great. You are thrown into this beautiful underwater city that was meant to be a utopia but obviously 
 something went horribly wrong. You have to figure it out by clues left behind on tape recorders 
 found throughout the game all while being in the middle of a war you don't really understand. Welcome 
 to Rapture! 
  My only gripe is the game is quite easy once you get the hang of it since there is virtually now 
 significant death penalty. But, this is balanced by the storyline that makes you want to keep playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I loved System Shock 2. I remember back in the day i couldnt play it because i didnt have the right 
 computer for it (yep, believe it or not!) and i really didnt know what i was missing out on. Then 
 one day i look back with a new computer and actually play the game finally. Wow was it great. Loved 
 it in every way, so much character interaction, storyline, survival, that just gave you that realistic 
 creepy feeling. Blows your mind away.
  Bioshock really does in a way, give much of that same feel the previous game had. The survival 
 element is all there recreated perfectly and defently one of the best aspects of the game. Many 
 times you'll have to look around every corner scavanging for ammo and parts, just makes the game 
 THAT much more entertaining. The gameplay, story, acting and music are for me the most important 
 aspects of a game, and luckily these are all in here just waiting to be enjoyed.
  Under all the pros there are a few cons nevertheless.
  First of all, they made the game a little 
 to easy, like gamespot said, respawning every time with all your stuff whenever you die really 
 kills the game's feel. I really prefer just to press the quickload button rather than die, respawn 
 and attack the same guy again since he has less health now.
  Also, hacking is incredibly easy and sometimes not even worth it. They should put less ammo distributors 
 and the ones that they did add should be a lot harder to hack. Even without hacking tonics the 
 hard hacks are fairly easy.
  I loved Rapture as a concept and as an environment aswell. Really felt like you were there witnessing 
 everything, also thanks to the awesome AI. But it should of been scarrier. Thats one thing that 
 i loved about SS2. You didn't know what to expect, and the unkown was scary. Some parts of bioshock 
 were truly mindboggling since you knew you were in danger but most of it was just too subtle, a 
 little uneventful maybe.
  And last but not least, the ending. Wow what a dissapointment. I dont want to spoil anything so 
 ill just say that its pretty bad, even though *hint hint* there are actually 3 endings to the game. 
 The whole storyline, when paired with the ending, just feels like a giant build up for something 
 so great, that really isnt that great! I think i read somewhere that some higher ups got involved 
 and wanted the game to end in a certain way rather than what the actual developers had in mind. 
 Not sure why they did that but the game really loses points for me because of this.
  All in all a nice game, fun 95% of the time. But that last 5% really kills the game and makes you 
 wish for some much more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogyo666
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 11, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  System Shock 2 was truly a revolutionary game and it still is one of the best games ever made. 
 Yet this fact over shadows Bioshock, we were promised a lot so we expected a lot, which never came. 
 I only bought the game to salute SS2 and to support developers who try to make quality artistic 
 games. The main flaw of Bioshock is that the story line offers a lot but it wasn't put together 
 well, it was said that there is going to be a living economy in the game but it never came. There 
 were no change in the ss2 formula at all and it created a surrealist environment in a negative 
 way, which made the game play silly and boring. They also made it a mass shooter which totally 
 conflicts with the game concept.
  
  But in overall the artistic part was very impressive there were very good ideas and it beats every 
 other competitors by a long shot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathScape666
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  BioShock is probably the best first person shooter I have ever played. It combines amazing atmosphere, 
 a compelling storyline, and a city that you will want to spend hours exploring all in one package. 
 That being said, I am still rather disappointed with it. As long as you take BioShock for what 
 it is rather than what you want it to be, you'll have a good time with it.
  
  The year is 1960. The beginning of the game begins with the protagonist, Jack, telling us about 
 his parents calling him special and how he was meant to do amazing things. He's on an airplane. 
 Suddenly, you here screaming, and the next thing you know, you crash-land right in the middle of 
 the ocean. You end up going into a building with some mini submarine inside. You go in there, and 
 then Andrew Ryan describes how he wanted to get away from the government. He chose to build Rapture.
 
  
  That's where the whole game takes place in: an underwater city known as "Rapture." The city, however, 
 is crumbling to pieces, and there are zombie-like creatures known as "splicers" that will kill 
 any human being in their sight. There's also Big Daddies, which men in these large suits and Little 
 Sisters.
  
  The Little Sisters play a prominent role in the game. You can choose to either harvest them or 
 save them. This will determine which ending you get. The "choices" end there. You are limited to 
 being bad or being good. The game doesn't really allow you to create your own pathway to the end. 
 It seems like you either have to take Road A, Road B, or Road A2. The Little Sisters are always 
 protected by these Big Daddies, and you'll have to take them down to get to them. They are basically 
 little girls that are altered in some weird way.
  
  There are many ways you can kill enemies. You have plasmids, which are basically superpowers. They 
 let you zap people with electricity, burn people with fire, freeze people with ice, and so on and 
 so forth. You also have a large amount of guns to choose from and your trusty wrench. It seems 
 like you have basically an unlimited supply of bullets and EVE (EVE is used for the plasmids.) 
 because you are basically tripping over money and other supplies everywhere you go. You most likely 
 will never be low on bullets or EVE. This makes things extremely easier.
  
  But to make things even easier, there's no real penalty for dying. You go to some Vita Chamber 
 when you run out of health, which is more of an annoyance than anything. Then you can pop out of 
 there, and take down whichever enemy you were trying to kill. When you die, the enemies' health 
 remains the same.
  
  The combat can get pretty repetitive after awhile. There doesn't seem to be too many things to 
 mix anything up or change anything. Sure, you get new plasmids and those are fun to use for awhile, 
 but you basically encounter the same enemies with slightly different abilities almost every single 
 time. It's fun for the first few hours, but then you just wish it would end.
  
  Rapture is a beautiful place, but unfortunately, everything there seems so linear. The areas are 
 all wide and open, but you'll still have to follow the set path. Every now and then, you'll take 
 a few minutes just to look around at the gorgeous underwater city. You'll pretty much go to every 
 location in one play through, so it's not like you'll encounter any different places the second 
 time around, which is a real bummer.
  
  The sound is great, and it has terrific voice acting. Everyone has an accent, and all the cast 
 members do a good job of fitting their character. I just wish you could hear Jack talk a little 
 bit more.
  
  BioShock is what it is, and if you didn't buy into the hype, you'll have a good time with it. Despite 
 a disappoint ending and a total lack of difficulty, BioShock still delivers an epic adventure that 
 any PC or XBox 360 owner should take. If your PC can run this game, then there's no exist for not 
 playing it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00Wu
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  bioshock is a great game. tho not an amazing game or anything of that sort it's a game i would 
 definitely recommend you get. the story behind is very interesting. and the gameplay is superb. 
 
  
  from the moment you start the first mission, you are immediately taken back by the awesome water 
 graphics and effects which definitely made this game stand out. and when you acquire your first 
 weapon and plasmas the fun starts to begin right off the bat. as the game progresses and you acquire 
 more weapons and plasmas you have to learn to adjust and figure out which weapon or plasma is best 
 for which situation. and the enemies are just as fun to fight. from the first big daddy that you 
 go against to the last, i always had a challenge fighting them. and the splicers for some odd reason 
 get tougher as the game goes on. strange... but anyways the game play is great and fun. there are 
 always rooms to explore to get more knowledge of the story and to find more weapons and plasmas.
 
  
  the fews little cons that i could notice would be how it would be too easy at times. as you could 
 easily die and respawn in a chamber nearby and continue like nothing ever happened to. made the 
 game seemed too easy esp when that was all i was doing near the end of the game. tho fun, the game 
 didn't really break new ground. and the boss fights didn't really seem that amazing. it just felt 
 like fighting stronger splicers which got annoying at times
  
  great parts of the game would be the story which i found highly immersive and the enemies from 
 the different types of splicers to the giant big daddies who were always fun to fight against until 
 you got the hypotenize big daddy which made fighting much easier. 
  
  overall: fun and addicting. great graphics and good environment feel, enemies are always fun to 
 fight against, good story. worth getting and playing thru. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robsonbmw
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is a game really worth playing. It's a game made not only for every fps maniac in this 
 world but also for every other player who wants to see how a 21st century game should be made. It's 
 wonderful graphics and plenty of fantastic innovations are something that you won't find in any 
 other fps game to date ( at least I couldn't find any similarity ) .
  After playing the amazing Far Cry and graphically stunning Crysis I thought that it would take 
 a considerable amount of time for a nex gen fps games to keep up the pace that those two games 
 have set.
  After playing bioshock I can say this: It's absolutely stunning from a graphical point of view. It 
 isn't worse and it isn't kicking crytec's games in the ass but it is perfect in it's own way. This 
 is a game that shows how the modern era games could and should look like. You only need to have 
 a high end pc to see what there was meant to be seen.
  
  I must say that the story is one of the most unique FPS stories I experienced for a very long time.
 
  
  You start the game as a passenger on a plane which after some unknown malfunction falls down in 
 to the ocean. You see yourself fighting for life in an attempt to get on the surface. Once you finally 
 get there you see your plane's wreckage being swallowed by the ocean while all of the surrounding 
 area is covered in flames.
  
  This is the part where I must say I was absolutely stunned. I was watching the intro. After getting 
 on the water's surface I kept watching it to see what was gonna happen. I was watching it wondering 
 why isn't this guy swimming to the tower and is stuck in one place? The answer was : ' because 
 you have to get there yourself asshhole,
  I was so amazed with the graphics that I thought I was still watching the intro. All those drops 
 on the camera effect... It is just brilliant!
  
  Once I got to the tower and after being introduced to the underwater city of Rapture I started 
 the game. And what a game it was!
  
  The real game starts in the deserted, underwater city of rapture. It once was a lively city with 
 plenty of citizens but everyone dissapeared all of a sudden and the only clue as to why and when 
 they dissapeared and what caused that is hidden in the tape recorders spread all over the place.
 
  Once you engage in the world of rapture there's no retreat. This game makes sure of that. It just 
 swallows you right in. At first all I was able to do was to admire the beautiful environment. Directx 
 10 was showing it's potential. Everything in the game seemed to have a purpose. It wasn't some randomized 
 insertion of couple of sofas and furniture along with some broken glass and couple of pickaxes 
 in the corner. The environment was created with high attention to detail. Every level has it's own 
 unique form, every room looks realistic and actually shows that there were actually people living 
 before something happened that made them dissapear. Not finished cigarettes or drinks. Tables set 
 as for someone who was supposed to sit there just 5 minutes ago.
  Everything looks abandoned and people's comments found on the tape recorders that express their 
  only adds a considerable amount of spice to the plot.
  
  You actually feel like the only sane guy in this place. The only live remains of once ideal 
 community are some mutaded human like creatures who lost both their sanity and the looks of a decent 
 humang being.
  
  These human like creatures are your enemies. They are insane, dangerous and unpredictable. You can 
 always hear them talking to themselves. Sometimes you'll get even a huge laugh. One of my favourite 
 sentences was : Jesus loves me, this I know'. My god, I was laughing my ass of!
  
  The most important, dangerous and crucial enemies are big daddies. They look like some scuba divers 
 but couple of times bigger than a normal human and couple of times tougher than one. They role is 
 to defend small sisters ( little girls affected by mutation with a big needle in their hands harvesting 
 dead bodies) .
  
  To survive in the world of Rapture you will have to kill those sisters and harvest them by acquiring 
 a gen called ADAM. it will allow you to fine tune your abilities and will give you much better chance 
 of surviving as the plot evolves. There's only one problem. You have to kill those bigg daddies first 
 and let me assure you, it isn't an easy task. At least not at the beginning. Once you get the hang 
 of how to kill them the quickest way, they will become yet another obstacle in your path. Just arm 
 yourself with some heavy gear and piercing bullets!
  
  The environments change constantly and there's always something new to see.
  The water..... you 
 have to see it! It's just so realistic that it almost feels wet in your room. I have never seen 
 such a realistic water effects in my whole life!
  
  There are plenty of solid looking innovations like plasmids. Every plasmid has it's own purpose. You 
 can electrify your opponents ( combine it with a water and couple of mutants:) Just pure pleasure:) 
 ) , you can ignite them, you can freeze them. After freezing your enemy you can treat him with your 
 shotgun to see him explode into many frozen pieces.
  
  The other cool and innovative aspect of this game are the vending machines using which you can 
 supply yourself with ammo, food etc. What's innovative is the ability to hack. Hacking is nothing 
 else than playing a puzzle minigame which requires you to construct a small pipeline from one end 
 of the screen to another to allow the water to flow through it. If your hack was succesfull then 
 you will get the same items for less or some bonus items will become available to you. You can also 
 hack bots, turrets, cameras. Once you hack'em they will become your allies and instead of shooting 
 at you they will hunt your enemies.
  
  There's only one thing that gets pretty irritating the more you play....
  Lack of variety in 
 enemy types. There's less than 10 enemy types in the game and after 10 or 20 hours of gameplay killing 
 the same mutants over and over again can become boring and repetitive. Same with the killing methods. Once 
 you pick your favourite plasmid ( freezing plasmid was my favourite) you will constantly freeze 
 your enemies for example and then take them off with one shot. The only difference is that the longer 
 you play the stronger these opponents become.
  
  There's also some sound stuttering problem every once in a while which is kind of confusing because 
 I never new what was causing that. My sound card or the game itself?
  
  Apart from that Bioshock is a magnificent game really worth playing. It's beautiful and has so many 
 innovations not seen in any other game that it will swallow you. And something tells me that if 
 you finish it once you will want to pass it once again no matter for what reason. Maybe to see those 
 freeking mutants on fire again? Or maybe it's the electricity that causes them to dance in the 
 pudle of water?
  Doesn't matter... every reason is the right one to play it once again.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jubliy
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 6, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard they were making a game based off of System Shock I was ecstatic. Then after 
 watching some teasers my anticipation grew until I finally played the game. Bioshock is basically 
 a graphically intense arcade game. While a few parts may become difficult there is no reason to 
 worry because even if you die you are just cloned with all of your possessions and ready to go 
 back to the fight. Most games these days just aren't very challenging, and Bioshock is a shinning 
 example of this. I was also let down when I found out that there was no RPG element to character 
 development like in System Shock. This made Bioshock very linear and uncreative. The story was 
 fairly good, but only because it was based off of a books from an author named Ayn Rand. Getting 
 past all of that, the graphics were good and the game was still pretty fun and worth playing at 
 least once. Oh but the ending does suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  The first impression Bioshock makes in my mind is a very unique environment. Everything happened 
 in Rapture, a secret submarine city built by parts of mankind who had grown tired of war and confliction 
 when World War 2 happened. It had been a heaven of peace, purity and modernity until the creation 
 of a new gene: Adam, which appeared to bring about supernatural abilities for human beings, at 
 first. Soon the city was torn apart by the struggles for Adam. Unfortunately, no one recognized 
 the damaging effect of this gene: it gradually made users' bodies addicted and destroyed. Rapture 
 inevitably fell down over time and became an abandoned remains where only existing creatures are 
 robots and the mutant... Besides the story line, the graphics has succeeded in reviving the style 
 of the 1930s, with classic architecture and the far-away plaintive jazz tracks. Everything is covered 
 in a dim artificial light, creating a distinctive stuffy atmosphere.
  
  Stay true to the developer's promise, Bioshock really revolutionizes the very concept of FPS, first 
 and foremost by its AI. In particular, the difficulty level is not chosen at the beginning, instead, 
 the game will base on players' actions through out the campaign to decide it. The lengthy training 
 no longer appears in Bioshock, in its place are well-designed hints that will come out depending 
 on situation. The superd AI also manifests in your enemies' actions. For example, in the circumstance 
 when you are stuck in a room with a Splicer right outside the door, and from opposite direction 
 coming a Big Daddy with a Little Sister, what should you do? Of course the easiest answer is to 
 wipe out all of them with your gun. But the game also let you do something more tricky: If you 
 shoot an Adam bullet to the Big Daddy, Splicer will immediately be attracted and rush towards this 
 guy, leaving you a space to escape. There is a principle: except for Splicers who are very hostile, 
 other opponents will react base on your own actions. If you choose to gun them at first sight, 
 they will become cautious of your appearance or even actively hunt you down. So trying to let them 
 be and stay out of trouble can be wiser. As you see, although basically a FPS, Bioshock contains 
 many quests allowing you to play like an adventure game without wasting even a bullet.
  
  The game play is also decorated with a RPG theme. In Bioshock, you must transform your collected 
 Adam into Plasmid to upgrade ... your own body. There are three options: Weaponry, Engineering 
 and Psionic. Your choice will also affect the way you play, but commonly upgrading Weaponry seems 
 most important and useful.
  
  Bioshock is truly the most impressive game I have played for a while. I highly recommend it for 
 all FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddastoor
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  As you enter the first scene, you are fully immersed into the world of Rapture. Your plane has 
 crashed into the Atlantic and you are the only survivor of the crash, swimming for safety to a 
 lighthouse nearby, the oily flames surround you as you progress and explosions are rampant. Entering 
 the lighthouse, you have r DNA to perform unbelievable actions ie. throwing fireballs from at the 
 snap of a finger) . The story then progresses quite quick, and right before the final boss battle, 
 I was amazed at how hard the game was, but was quickly disappointed at the ending of the game and 
 how quickly, and easily i was able to take out the final boss. The falling action of the story 
 was all summed up in a matter of seconds, and was launched back to the main menu, without any closure.
 
  
  Pros:
  1) Great environment
  2) Fun game play with virtually unlimited variables
  3) Great graphics
  4) Great and interesting story line
  5) Fun Weapons
  6) Funny (Comical) characters 
 and voice overs
  
  Cons:
  1) Glitch where every time the game is loaded, you need to turn off vertical synchronization to 
 experience   50fps
  2) Sound is unstable and buggy when set to 5.1 or when reverberations are turned on
  3) Ending 
 basically sucked and was too easy.
  4) The sound of the BIG DADDY haunts my dreams... and any sort of noise resembling it in real life 
 scares me now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TooNu
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is and will forever remain in my gaming soul as the only game to give me goosebumps of 
 excitment and terror at the same time. Thats my reason and im sticking to it, when you play this 
 I am 100% sure you will have your own reasons because i am certain every gamer will enjoy this 
 game. 
  
  A quick note for you, reading this is taking up your time from buying and playing this game. If 
 you are unsure about Bioshock in regards to the psychological horror elements then don't be too 
 alarmed because though at times this game is downright horrific, it's not really a jumpy game. 
 It has a rather poor BOO!!!!!! factor. Horrific yes, frightening, no.
  
  Firstly a small story ( 1 paragraph) of how I got my copy of the game, you can skip this if you 
 are not interested. When I bought Bioshock I had to take it back to the store because my GFX were 
 not up to scratch, this was back on release day. So until i had upgraded my PC this sat in some 
 shop waiting for my return. When that day finally came Bioshock was nowhere to be found. Not on 
 websites I trusted nor even in your highstreet brand shops, I could find it nowhere without the 
 "Not in stock" and "we are expecting it in shortly" disapointment. Obviously i managed but not 
 after 2 weeks searching and to my suprise it was 150SWEK or just shy of 15.00 which for a top 
 game like this is a no brainer purchase. Since i pointed this out, the shop ramped up the price 
 : ( sorry folks.
  
  I digress. 
  
  I am sure you are aware of the plot and the details by reading the gamespot review or somebodies 
 review so i wont go on and on about how mysterious it is and how the story is so compelling that 
 it pulls you to find out just what is going on in Rapture and I won't harp on about how gripping 
 the acting and the scenary makes the whole experience of walking in some reclusive water world 
 just that more fresh and exciting. I am sure you are all aware of this allready so i will talk 
 about why I liked Bioshock.
  
  The weapons:- Are all found pretty early on, everything is accesable within the first few levels 
 which means more options for fighting early on giving you more freedom and ultimately; more choice. 
 This is a great idea because instead of saving the better weapons for later levels or as in many 
 cases, 1 new weapon per level, you are given them to toy with and upgrade fairly early on so you 
 can experiment alot sooner. 
  
  Upgrades:- All the weapons in Bioshock can be upgraded twice, once usually for ammo or fire rate, 
 the other for some added bonus such as damage, ammo consuption, range etc 
  
  The crossbow: - eventually you are going to find a crossbow, you are going to still trust your 
 favourites like the tommy gun or perhaps the excellent shotgun and you will keep on using them 
 ignoring the crossbow all together. That is because you are comfortable using them during your 
 stay in Rapture and also because similar weapons are found in nearly all FPS and familiar friends 
 are always the saer more reliable option. Also the crossbow only has an ammo clip of 5 and you 
 have to cock-load every time you shoot.
  Thinking like this will reduce your fun by a factor of 100 because the crossbow is the baddest 
 weapon since the BFG. 1 shotting anything, recovering your ammo and all the while making you time 
 your shots for the most beautifull finishes i have ever seen in an FPS. Shoot splicers from the 
 roof and watch the life fall from them like a dead rabbit, silence their rambling with 1 long distance 
 bolt to the face and revel in how physics tries to tear their head off making them fly back like 
 a ragdoll. This is one of the VERY VERY FEW weapons in FPS games that makes you feel powerfull. 
 I love this weapon, more please.
  
  Plasmids and Tonics: - SUPERPOWERS ! ok so all games have a gimmick or a selling point to which 
 everything is directed. Bioshock's would be these upgrades to your body. Ok for me the best part 
 of my gaming experience in this entire game would be a gaming dream come true that I have had for 
 at least a decade. To shoot Bee's out of your body at people. What a power, it serves as a distraction 
 to which enemies are left cowering as Bee's swarm them and hurts in tiny increments leaving them 
 wide open for a headshot. The Bees also act as a mobile turret as it were in that, you activate 
 the power and when splicers approach the swarm heads straight for them giving you the opener free 
 of charge. Say goodbye to suprise attacks with BEEEEEZZZ!!! Of course there are many powers and 
 abilities which can all be upgraded, the chamelonic power being a favourite for my sniper style 
 of play.
  
  Lastly. The dialogue, acting and storyline: - 
  I must stand in awe at the writers, actors and producers of this game. They have made a truly fine 
 game with massive volumes of atmosphere, mystery, terror, sadness, pity, shock and excitment. Thats 
 putting it simply. I love a game to take me on a journey in which at the end i feel tired and battered 
 as i i spent 2months on the back of an elephant through the hot jungles of India. If a game does 
 that, then its worth playing and writing about like this. For me, Bioshock gave me a wide mix of 
 emotions and let me in on a secret to the wide world of gaming. Storyline, is everything. Game 
 mechanics and graphics come a close second and third but the story is what drives a player to keep 
 going and to find out more. 
  
  Bioshock has bags of story that is forced into your face but gives you snippits of back story from 
 recordings left around Rapture from long dead people. Ghost sights also let you in on life in Rapture 
 before things turned ugly. As the story unfolds it is backed up by amazing voice acting, truly 
 this game hit the spot dead on with talent. Mostly games can be 50-50, some good acting, some bad 
 but Bioshock truly amazed me and left me wondering how a game could get it so right when all others 
 do so pooringly in comparrison. IT CAN BE DONE FOLKS!
  
  
  So to end. Buy it because the story is awesome, the graphics are awesome, the weapons and plasmid 
 powers are awesome, it has great replay value, 2K need your cash to make another game sometime 
 in the future which will also be worth your money so make an investment into your gaming life and 
 your gaming soul will thankyou for it making sure you repa the dividends in years to come. BUY 
 BIOSHOCK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alterbridge9
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Bought this game after my exams as so many people recommended it. I had previously stayed away 
 from it as I thought it looked frightening and I simply cannot play scary games but eventually 
 I gave in.
  
  I thought this game would have more of a gameplay driven game but to my liking I found it was not 
 as I started to play the game I quickly became engrossed in a magnificent storyline. The story 
 which I won't go into is simply one of the best you can experience in a video game and has major 
 twists and turns that I didn't see coming at all.
  
  The overall look of the game is brilliant with amazing detail in both the characters and the city 
 of Rapture. The water looks especially great and its easy to see why this game has won so many 
 artistic awards.
  
  The gameplay is very easy to adapt to as it isn't too dissimilar from most first person shooters. 
 The ability to modify your character's genetic code to enable you to have new abilities and 'powers' 
 is fantastic and brings a new and fresh element to FPS as it is more commonly seen in RPGs.
  
  The weapons in the game are quite good especially the shotgun and flame-thrower but for the 
 most part I used my plasmids as it was easier and more fun.
  
  Overall I would say Bioshock is a brilliant game that will be enjoyed by FPS fans and RPG fans 
 that prefer a bit more action and is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frag_1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  Bioshock has been given accolades for its fantastic gameplay and non-linear gameplay.. after all 
 it is you who chooses the way the game ends. And it's not just that, the way you progress is also 
 on your terms and at your own risk. This element and spirit of the game makes it unbelievably fantastic..
 
  
  Bioshock is the tale of Jack, a normal guy who was travelling on a flight and got involved in a 
 plane crash (?) to land consequently in Rapture, an underwater city that was supposed to be the 
 utopia for a select group of people but got turned into a near hellish zone overrun with lunatics, 
 genetically modified monsters and crazy scientists who have lost their minds (along with their ethics) .. 
 The game revolves around you trying to find out a way to leave Rapture and soon discovering your 
 ties to it to be more than coincidental. The story unfolds and tells Jack's true connection with 
 Rapture..
  
  In the game we have to kill a variety of Rapture's citizens including crazed out splicers (of different 
 classes) and big daddies. The main turning point in the story is however the point where you have 
 to choose in between saving the little sisters or killing them to gain more power. You will find 
 yourself taking on many monsters on your way through the game, upgrading weapons and plasmids alike 
 which I found to be quite an interesting feature. The parts where you have to hack vending machines 
 to get discounts and unlock certain items are also progressively challenging and fun. Then there 
 is stealth factor included in the game where you evade security cameras and bots in different parts 
 of Rapture while completing the game. The game has a host of weapons ranging from the pistol to 
 the crossbow and also has a chemical thrower which was a very different weapon in terms of its 
 ammo. The game also features the option of carrying different kinds of ammo which gives you the 
 edge against a variety of enemies. 
  
  As I mentioned before, the game has a variety of vending machines that serve as your lifelines 
 throughout the game serving you the right amount of first aid kids and eve hypos along with all 
 that ammo, provided you have the cash for that. When we go further into the game, we have U-invent 
 machines that give you the option to make certain items using some of the scrap you find around 
 Rapture. This not only gives you the option to save loads of your cash but gives you certain irreplaceable 
 items such as Bolts for your crossbow or Armor Piercing Rounds for you Machine gun/Pistol. There 
 are also some power to the people stations where you can upgrade your weapons for better accuracy 
 and higher damage. There are a limited number of these and you cannot upgrade all your weapons. 
 So this again showcases the choice factor in the game. Again, in case of the Plasmids, you have 
 to spend ADAM the genetic currency for buying gene upgrades, you can upgrade your current Plasmids 
 or get new ones and also buy Gene Tonics for better combat, hacking and endurance which help you 
 throughout the game. You also get to buy health and eve upgrades there. So, ADAM is an indispensable 
 tool in the world of Rapture.
  
  In terms of gameplay, there are some fantastic boss fights to look forward to and some really interesting 
 missions to finish. The missions are generally ending up providing Jack to find another page to 
 the diary of his life. It also helps you discover the purpose you were made for in the game. There 
 is some heavy amount of gunning and getting used to the environment in Rapture once you start playing 
 the game. The sound and atmosphere of the game are fantastic and giving you the chills in some 
 places where there are some freaky splicers talking or when the big daddies keep walking nearby 
 you.
  
  So on the whole this game is a solid buy for anyone who is into First Person Shooters and also 
 loves some sci-fi. I just can't wait to play its sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fernan17893
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Alright from beginning to end this is a masterpiece, Its a masterpiece in different ways and is 
 barely ever executed in gaming for that matter entertainment. This was a great game to play and 
 even deserves to be played twice even three times just for all the secrets. Or just appreciate 
 the art. Thats another thing the artistic quality of this game is amazing from a distinctive style 
 to weird enemies and great lighting. The enemies range from weird mutant humans that are just humans 
 that have been altered by plasmids (which you will use in the story and give you a variety of awesome 
 powers) to the almighty big daddy's who are just huge beast that take care of a little girl with 
 eve which is the key to surviving in this underwater city of Rapture. Not just are the big daddy's 
 a challenge and tons of fun to fight but the little girls they protect give a moral choice to kill 
 them and collect their full eve or to rescue them and collect a fraction of the eve. Overall its 
 a great gameplay element that leaves the player even more focused into the story. This game is 
 an excellent experience and ill never forget the first five minutes of this game which left me 
 frightened and amazed at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jogeoluz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is a masterpiece of a game that immersed me into the mysterious city of Rapture from start 
 to finish. On the surface it looks like an FPS but it plays like an RPG because of the ability 
 to build your character throughout the game. The art direction is the most impressive I have ever 
 seen in a video game. The retro feel was very immersive with the 1940s music. Audio diaries fill 
 in the storyline very well as the various characters speak of their own experiences and what is 
 going on in Rapture. The storyline would be very confusing without the audio diaries. The variety 
 of plasmids and tonics made it possible to deal with situations in different and creative ways. 
 I used the enrage plasmid to get enemies to fight each other. The enrage plasmid was pretty useful 
 when facing the Big Daddy because the Splicers helped out in reducing his health. The imposing 
 Big Daddies were very challenging and a lot of fun. The decision on how to deal with the Little 
 Sisters gave me a moral dilemma that affected the end of the game. I decided to harvest the Little 
 Sisters to acquire more ADAM for my genetic modifications. Therefore, I got a bad ending on my 
 first play through. On my second play through I rescued all 21 Little Sisters and got a good ending 
 because it showed Jack was not so greedy about plasmids and tonics. The moral dilemma added plenty 
 of replay value to Bioshock. One nice twist to the story is the need to smell, look, and sound 
 like a Big Daddy in order to guide a Little Sister and advance the plot. The voice acting was top-notch 
 for all NPCs. The Little Sisters would credibly react with fear when Jack, the nondescript protagonist, 
 would get near her. The Splicers would create an appropriately creepy atmosphere by saying intimidating 
 words without being seen before rushing to attack. The Splicers were diverse since there were Leadhead 
 Splicers, Houdini Splicers, Thuggish Splicers, and Nitro Splicers. The diversity of Splicers avoided 
 monotony. Their A. I. is good for the most part, but they sometimes run at you in a straight line 
 when being shot at. Some Splicers look smart when they run away when their health is low in an 
 attempt to find the nearest health station.
  The weapons were varied and became more varied as I collected different types of ammo for each 
 weapon. My favorite weapon against the Big Daddy was the grenade launcher because of the explosive 
 ammo such as the heat-seeking RPGs and frag grenades. The trap bolts are not very useful but can 
 be used traps against enemies if you want to strategize. The chemical thrower was great and my 
 favorite ammo was the napalm. The napalm provides impressive visuals when I burn a Splicer or Big 
 Daddy.
  The music jingles for each vending machine give them an identity of their own and add a nice touch 
 to the game. Once you get use to the jingles for each vending machine, you do not have to actually 
 see the machines to identify which ones are the Circus of Values or which ones are El Ammo Bandito. 
 The gene bank, which is not a vending machine, also has a nice jingle that gives it a unique identity. 
 The ability to hack vending machines is a lot of fun and gets more challenging as the game progresses. 
 The progressively challenging hacking minigame made me try to upgrade my engineering tonics.
  I am aware of the technical problems associated with the Secu-ROM online activation. I encountered 
 no problems, probably because I installed the game in April 2008, not at anytime in 2007. I played 
 the game on a Windows Vista PC. In addition, there were no audio problems that had been reported 
 on the Windows Vista PC upon the game's release. Bioshock updated all patches upon installation. 
 The load times were sometimes too long, but I could deal with that.
  One attribute of the game that I find questionable is the existence of vita chambers. The vita 
 chambers resurrect your protagonist upon death. This means there is no penalty for getting killed 
 since you come back to life and the enemies you had faced upon defeat have the same health. In 
 other words, a Big Daddy who had a health of nearly zero when he killed you still has the same 
 health. Some gamers may feel that the existence of vita chambers make the game too easy.
  The aforementioned criticism does not hurt the game at all. This is undoubtedly the best 15-20 
 hours of gaming nirvana that I have experienced. When I started experiencing the city of Rapture 
 at the beginning, I had already liked Bioshock more than I liked Crysis. Crysis was a graphical 
 treat, but Bioshock had more diverse levels and was more artistic. I believe the year 2008 is the 
 right time to install the game because it will automatically include all updates. I recommend Bioshock 
 to anyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeusbark
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Bioshock Review, PC version
  
  When I first played the game I was amazed at the game's attention to detail and creepy atmosphere. 
 The retro setting of the game creates a surreal involving setting, in which it is hard not to get 
 caught.
  The story is told through a series of in game cut scenes, audio recordings, and visions that keep 
 the player involved, and allow the player to keep the action going while the story unfolds. The 
 story is a very good aspect of the game. It's one of the things that makes you want to keep playing. 
 
  The visuals in this game are gorgeous. Lighting effects, water, blood, all look great, but the 
 incredibly detailed world is what makes the total immersion into the game. When I was playing the 
 game, I sometimes just wanted look around and explore, because it was all so cool.
  The audio in this game is really good to. The environmental sound effects are awesome. You are 
 walking around and you can hear water falling (where available) enemies swearing, big daddies growling 
 and moaning, and all sort of noises that will take you inside the game. The music is very immersing 
 to. Sometimes you will hear environmental music like phonographs playing, which add to the atmosphere. 
 The game's sound track, although it's 17 minutes long, it is very well composed and adds to the 
 great atmosphere. The voice acting is also very good and convincing.
  Bioshock has an interesting combat system. It mixes your standard weapons (revolver, machine gun, 
 shotgun) with Plasmid Powers. Plasmid powers are cool and fun to use. They range from shock, fire, 
 and ice to turning enemies against themselves, sending hordes of bees to attack your enemies, putting 
 traps you bad guys are sent flying away etc You also have the ability to customize and upgrade 
 your weapons and plasmids.
  This is a creepy game, but not really scary. The atmosphere, characters, sounds, and enemies, all 
 create a creepy setting, but there are very few truly scary moments. I recommend playing this game 
 at night, with the lights of , and a surround sound system at good volume to get the best experience.
 
  The replay value is good, since it has 3 different endings (only seen 2) , and each time you play 
 the game you can play it using a different approach.
  
  Downsides of the game
  
  Bioshock would be a perfect game if it weren't for a few things. Although the combat system is 
 very engaging, and you have all these customization options, it all comes short because there are 
 no death penalties. When you die you re-spawn and nothing happens to you. You can just walk back 
 to where you were, and attack the same enemies that killed you 10 seconds ago. But if you die, 
 don't worry, you can re-spawn as many times as you like until you succeed. This brings down the 
 creepiness, and difficulty factor, since you know that you can't die. 
  One of the other problems with this game are the audio voice recordings. At first they feel fresh 
 and cool, but after a while you can get tired of them. These recordings are what bring the story 
 together, and although the voice acting is great, they are hard to relate to.
  Another thing I disliked where the weapons. They didn't feel like weapons to me. At the beginning 
 of the game you shoot someone in the head, and they die, by the middle of the game you can unload 
 a full clip into someone's head and not kill him or her. You can unload a full clip of your machine 
 gun into someone, and just take of half a life bar. Even when upgraded the weapons felt a bit weak 
 to me, and at times I just preferred to charge with the wrench (get the wrench jockey plasmid) 
 and killed them faster and without wasting ammo. I felt plasmids had the same problem to, you can 
 burn someone, or send killer bees after them, but it will only take off a bit of health, and you 
 still have to finish them of with weapons.
  The other complain I have are the Hacking mini game. They are fun at first, but you end up doing 
 them way to often. After a while I just stopped hacking, and paid the full price of things (since 
 money is plentiful in this game) .
  Conclusion
  Bioshock is an excellent game that at times fells more like a movie than a Shooter. It features 
 a good story, engaging game play, and a lot of creepiness. I would recommend this game to anyone 
 who is looking for a different and original gaming experience. For anyone who just wants a regular 
 shooter, probably better to get COD, or Halo 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssuttles
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  I will be the first to admit that this game is visually amazing. The soundtrack and effects will 
 you blow you away. That is where it ends for me. The story is good, don't get me wrong, but the 
 controls are terrible. There is way too much bobbing. If you are hit, then you will be knocked 
 sideways. I guess this aggravation comes from play to much Halo. I, also, did not like the screen 
 blur when you take damage. This, for me, was to distracting. When the screen is blurry and sideways 
 it is frakking hard to shoot an enemy. Plus, these stupid little machines firing on you until you 
 hack it. It makes the game move so much slower. I could not even finish this game. The best benefit 
 is the fact it is a game for Windows. This allows you to use an Xbox controller with the game. 
 Also, what is this online activation bull? This means that there is possibility of only being able 
 to use it on only one PC. Many gamers have multiple computers and will move games around. This 
 holds true for me. I do not recommend buying this game. If you want a game that gives a realistic 
 feel to damage like this one, I recommend Call of Cthulhu DCotE. I found this much more enjoyable 
 and less of a headache. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggest_loser
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  BIOSHOCK 
  
  DEVELOPER: 2K Boston/2K Australia 
  
  
  The year is 1960. On board a plane flying across the Atlantic Ocean, you play as a faceless protagonist 
 known as Jack. When the plane crashes into the sea, you take salvation by swimming ashore to a 
 lighthouse. A mini submarine which takes you into the depths of the Ocean and you are greeted by 
 an infomercial presenting to you the world of "Rapture". In 1940's a man named Andrew Ryan invited 
 the artists and intellects to join him in creating an underwater Utopia free from the suppressions 
 of religions and the government. Yet as soon as you arrive in Rapture, you soon discover this world 
 has slowly gone wrong. 
  
  You are soon contacted by radio by a unseen man named Atlas who may just be able to help you escape 
 Rapture alive. It becomes apparent that Rapture is slowly falling apart under you and is infested 
 with mutated people craving stem cell enhancements known as "Atom": a substance that allows for 
 genetic enhancements of the body. You will have to make use of the Atom powers and decide whether 
 you are going to purge or save "the little sisters" of Rapture. These little girls, mutated by 
 the effects of Atom collect the substance from the dead. Will you help them save Rapture? Or are 
 you out to only save yourself? 
  
  Released for PC and the Xbox360, Bioshock was developed by 2K Games, which includes numerous talents 
 such as Ken Levine who worked on System Shock 2. The influence and creativity from System Shock 
 2 is immediately evident in the intense and cinematic world of Bioshock. There are numerous narrative 
 elements that will be immediately familiar such as mysterious voices instructing you on where to 
 go, as well as haunting ghosts who retell poignant moments from a world that has slowly decayed. 
 Yet despite these comparisons, Bioshock stands on its own merits and it is testimony to the art 
 direction and wholly unique visual style that the game looks and feels like nothing you have played 
 before. 
  
  Rapture was built in the 1940's and as such the game has been decorated authentically towards the 
 era, with the appropriate furniture, music and textures delivering a world where every room is 
 soaked in atmosphere. Enemies (or Splicers as they are known) look appropriately creepy with bloodied 
 clothes and masks sheltering their scarred faces. They are intelligent enough in gunfights too 
 with the ability to strafe, roll, flip and run when injured. They are able to search for health 
 machines if necessary. They are never particularly tactical but you wouldn't expect them to be 
 given they were once just ordinary people. The voice acting is superb throughout the entire game, 
 with all enemies sounding appropriately angered and violent, while Andrew Ryan the creator of Rapture 
 has a proud tone in his voice but perhaps too even guilt and remorse for what has happened. He 
 was a man who had a vision for a better world and had to take drastic measures to try and preserve 
 his ideals and values within Rapture. 
  
  Much of the story is conveyed through the voice of Atlas guiding you, as well as Ryan, occasionally 
 interspersing his hatred of you, but there are also tapes everywhere that can be collected. These 
 will give you insights into the backstory of Rapture and what exactly has happened. There are valuable 
 subplots that you need to pay attention to, such as that of a smuggler in Rapture and his ongoing 
 battle with Ryan, and a woman who feels she has blood on her hands with the transformation of the 
 little sisters. It pays greatly to search every room in the game to not only find ammo, money, 
 health and eve (which is basically mana for your powers) but to find tapes that will fill in the 
 story. It is clever how you are never told absolutely everything given that you are an outsider 
 looking into this world that has gone wrong. The way levels are decorated with trashed rooms and 
 water leakages tells its own story. 
  
  The core game play is a mixture of exploration and First Person Shooter combat. You gradually find 
 a stand action game arsenal of a wrench, a pistol, machine gun, shotgun, crossbow and a grenade 
 launcher. These are effective, but not overly powerful given that they have been under the Ocean 
 for twenty years. This arsenal takes a back step towards the Plasmids you purchase as you find 
 Atom. It functions as a currency in that you find a special machine and are then able to choose 
 new Plasmids and slots for them. 
  
  These powers include: Fire, Ice, electricity, telekinetic to pick up and hurl objects (like Half-Life 
 2's gravity gun) , a hive of bees and several others. There are also tonics that can act passively 
 (they are on all the time) such as having your body give off an electric shock every time someone 
 acts you with a melee weapon or a Wrench Jockey that increases the damage of your melee attacks. 
 There are limited slots for your powers but you can buy additional ones or swap powers around at 
 gene machines. The interface is perfectly customised for the PC allowing you to switch between 
 Plasmids and weapons on the fly. 
  
  You obtain Atom points by either rescuing or killing a Little Sister. You will have to take care 
 of their bodyguards first before you can reach them though. These are monsters in a giant diving 
 suit who are tasked with protecting the sisters and will attack you if you get to close. While 
 Bioshock is a linear game at it's heart, the powers you have demonstrate the versatility of the 
 game world. For example, you may choose to attack a security gun turret with you grenade launcher, 
 yet this would take up vital ammo and health. Instead you could use your electricity bolt to stun 
 the turret and then hack it to fight against enemies for you. Or you can take a pot shot with your 
 fire and then slowly wait for it to burn away at the gun. Why not freeze the turret and then run 
 past it, avoiding it all together? You could pick up a flammable canister using telekinetic and 
 hurl it at it too. You are approach with enemies is like this too. You could freeze an enemy and 
 smash him into pieces but then you can't search him for goodies, like health packs and ammo. You 
 could zap him while he's standing in water, increasing the electrical damage. 
  
  The trick with these powers is that later in the game certain Splicer enemies become more resistant 
 to certain powers. A Houdini Splicer who shoots fire at you is obviously going to be resistant 
 against fire and ice. They will be able to disappear before you can hit them anyway. Thus perhaps 
 it is easier to shock them and bash them with a wrench or a blast from a shotgun. It really comes 
 to life at times in the game when you find yourself taking down multitudes of enemies at once, 
 freezing them, then switching the pistol for a swift bullet to the head, listening to them smash 
 into a thousand pieces and then repeating the execution on the next target. 
  
  There are many different options with the combat but it is your interaction with the rest of the 
 game world that makes the game so much fun as well. Look at hacking a safe: You can collect various 
 items from the world which can then be put into a "U-Invent Machine". You may then choose to create 
 an auto-hack and open the safe right away. You may wish to buy out the safe to have it opened. 
 Or you might try playing a mini-game and manually hacking the safe yourself, risking if the alarm 
 goes off the arrival of security bots. It is through this ability to collect so many little things 
 in world of Rapture makes it both fun to explore and to interact with. 
  
  The game has been rather unfairly criticised for the inclusion of "Vita chambers". When you are 
 "killed" in Rapture you are automatically brought back to a chamber with you current ammo and eve 
 levels. Essentially there is no penalty for death. This does make the game fairly easy but I do 
 not have a problem with this at all. There is still challenge within the game in that you have 
 to still find a way to dispose of your enemies. 
  It is also not all that different from players who would frequently quick save before a battle. 
 And it manages to keep the game flowing at a rapid pace too. How annoying it has been to have to 
 repeat one section of a game for hours on end because you don't have enough health or ammo. At 
 last a developer that does not wish to hinder the player's progress. 
  
  Some have also said that it reduces the tension of the game. I don't think Bioshock is a particularly 
 scary game in the first place but Rapture with its hollow corridors and brilliant sound design 
 (you can hear every footstep, every word of a Splicer) retains its atmosphere and incredible tension. 
 The game is perhaps at its scariest when it shows you nothing, allowing your imagination to decipher 
 what may or may not be beyond the next door. It is the Unreal 3 Engine that works so well in presenting 
 a world that is as fractured as the people with in it, and makes the game so rich and compelling 
 to play through. 
  
  The only true misstep of the game is perhaps the finale which is deduced to a final boss battle 
 that is not particularly hard and less unique than the rest of the game. It is followed by two 
 endings, depending on your treatment of the Little Sister. The bad ending is strange and fairly 
 disappointing, but thankfully the good ending remains sweet and very poignant, which is a rarity 
 in games today. 
  
  Bioshock is a game that immerses you so well into its universe that you may not realise till after 
 you have played it how very good it is. Along with Crysis, it is another FPS that is allowing players 
 to have greater control and participation in the action on screen. All of its elements come together 
 in a unique way to prove that this is a very special game indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomsutor
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  this is my 2nd review and my first one was crap so anyway this is a relly good game. the graphic 
 are very good but some times the game meses up. you can get normal wepon which then you upgrade 
 to be kick ass wepon and you can get things call plasmids which are like super powers like you 
 can shoot out bee from your veins and freeze people and other stuff and you buy the super powers 
 with not money but adam which you can olny get from some lilte girls but since all the poeple in 
 rature wont adam the lilte girl which are called lilte sister they get proteced by big daddys which 
 are the most hardest poeple to kill so ya thats the only way you can get adam. the story line is 
 relly gooand it has a bit of a twist to it but i cant tell you or that would ruin the story line 
 for you. there is only one porblem some times it crashes for me but maybe it dont for you i dont 
 know. there is two endings i think which depends on if you harvest or resuce the lilte sisters 
 if you harvest them they die but you get more adam if resuce them u get less adam you do kill the 
 liltle and someone gives you a present which has 200 adam in it and other stuff which is go so 
 its up to you how the game ends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  To pay for these genetic enhancements, you must make use of a material called ADAM, which most 
 unfortunately, can only be obtained by getting at the Little Sisters, who are small girls that 
 wonder the ruins of Rapture, accompanied by hulking brutes known as Big Daddies, who protect the 
 latter. These Little Sisters obtain ADAM from the numerous corpses littering the different locations, 
 and it is your job to obtain it from them. You can do this in two ways, but both require the Big 
 Daddy to be taken out first. This can be very tricky, as Big Daddies are extremely tough to kill, 
 and any assault on one will require quite a bit of planning. Once you have dealt with them though, 
 you are given a binary choice: you can either 'harvest' the girl, meaning she will die but you 
 will gain a large amount of ADAM, or you can 'rescue' her, letting her live but only receiving 
 a smaller amount of ADAM. Naturally, both choices have important outcomes that effect the overall 
 progression of the plot. However, the choice is so 'Jin and Jang' in nature that you instinctively 
 know which is the 'good' and 'evil' path, and thus, there is little or no moral ambiguity.
  
  There are some problems relating to the difficulty of the game. On easy setting, the citizens 
 bite the dust most realistically, taking only one or two bullets to bring them down, making combat 
 a relative cakewalk. However, the further you progress through the game, the more difficult the 
 enemies become to kill. This makes little sense (unless they were using plasmids or gene tonics 
 to improve their resilience, which is altogether possible) , and is quite annoying in itself. Similarly, 
 on medium and hard settings, the splicers become even more difficult to kill generally, meaning 
 that it can sometimes take more than half a clip of machine gun rounds before they are put to rest. 
 A much more sensible system would have been to make your death easier, but unfortunately, death 
 is not a problem for Jack in BioShock. When you die, you will be automatically revived at a nearby 
 Vita-Chamber, with some health and EVE, all ready and fresh to face a new day. Although this was 
 meant to improve the overall gaming experience and keep the pace moving, it means in practice that 
 it is possible to continually die and rise from the dead over and over, something which is both 
 stupid and irritating. Overall, these problems mean two things; either the game is too easy, and 
 you'll never die, or the game is too difficult, and you'll continually die and resurrect, meaning 
 it's actually just as easy. In principle therefore, it would be almost possible for a Marmoset 
 to complete BioShock (apart from the ending section) , as long as you could teach it the controls.
 
  
  Graphically the game is amazingly detailed. The water effects are mesmerising to watch, the environments 
 are stunning to look at, and the characters are also very detailed, though they do appear somewhat 
 unrealistic, though this could be because of the genetic experimentation that has occurred. Environments 
 are spacious and quite varied, though later levels do feel like they were rushed as they suffer 
 from being both smaller and also more similar to each other. AI you encounter is quite intelligent, 
 will duck and run behind cover when needed, and will also make a beeline for the nearest health 
 station when they are nearly dead so they can come at you again. There are also several different 
 types of splicer, ranging from the gun touting 'Leadhead' variety to 'Houdini', which can teleport 
 around at random, whilst throwing balls of fire towards you. It would have been great if there 
 could have been even more variety in the enemies, but only towards the end will this thought crop 
 into your mind. There is also the ability to 'hack' several of the installations in Rapture, by 
 playing what is essentially a game of Pipe Dream.
  
  Musically, the game is really fantastic, featuring a number of classic 1940s and 50s songs which 
 occasionally start up in various areas of levels, making everything very sinister. I am naturally 
 drawn to compare this to 'The Shining', when Jack (strange how the main character of that film 
 and this game have the same name, isn't it?) walks down a corridor with 'Midnight for the Stars 
 and You' playing quietly in the background. There is also a full orchestral score, parts of which 
 I am sure have also been drawn or inspired from the aforementioned film, as they both heavily feature 
 high tension string sections. On so many levels, this game is like 'The Shining', from the music 
 to the setting itself. Further, few other games have ever made me stop and think about a game's 
 philosophy in such a way as BioShock has. Deus Ex was one and this is another good example. The 
 way the game's plot is delivered through a series of taped recordings is also quite interesting, 
 as you can feel slightly nostalgic whilst listening to the past lives of the citizens.
  
  Without too much trouble, it is possible to look past the difficulty issues surrounding BioShock 
 and see it in better light. The story is ace, the setting is perfect and the gameplay itself is 
 wonderful. Naturally, it is not perfect, but as BioShock itself tells us, the pursuit of perfection 
 can lead to serious problems. We wouldn't have wanted Irrational Games to become insane psychopaths 
 whilst putting the game together, would we? As with many games, BioShock was partly a victim of 
 its own hype. If you look behind the hype though, you can find a game that is well designed and 
 is most importantly very fun to play. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zzZPillowZzz
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  Bioshock was a real shock to the system,
  
  Never before has a game had such an emotional effect on me.
  An extremely well thought out and 
 constructed game. Visuals communicated well with the music composition to create a world of twisted 
 morality and degenerated science.
  Artwork blew me away, in fact this game is literally a work of art.
  Together with crysis, this 
 is my favorite game of all time.
  
  One will be left with eerie feeling after playing bioshock and that is just more praise to the 
 bioshock team for creating such an immersive game whereby the effects linger on well after the 
 pc is turned off.
  
  Weapons were unusual compared with other 1st person shooters as well as the varieties of ways to 
 kill an enemy. This game is an instant "CULT CLASSIC" and will be remembered for a very long time 
 to come...
  
  The one single flaw I could find was that there wasn't enough variety with regards to characters. 
 I would have liked to have seen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_daddy-113
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  To start bioshock is a genetically advanced shooter. Meaning you customize your character with 
 something called "plasmids". They are used on and on in the game letting you experiment with them. 
 The plasmids work very well in the game but that's not what will draw you.
  
  What will draw you is the amazing atmosphere and story. The graphics are amazing and the environment 
 is lush and beautiful. I almost took an hour just looking at the amazing atmospheric levels. The 
 story is AMAZING and after more than 9 months I haven't spoiled the "twist" to anyone. 
  
  The little problem the tiny problem was that it was way to similar to system shock 2. 
  
  Overall 
 bioshock gives you an amazing experience from start to finish. Gaming will never get any better 
 after we are flooded with countless Halo and Final Fantasy knockoffs.
  
  
  Story 10/10
  Graphics 10/10
  Controls 10/10
  Fun factor 10/10
  Innovation 7/10
  
  Result: What are 
 you waiting for? Buy the game already!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerLiew
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 4:24 am PT
Review:  Hey guy.. I finally end this games and this games is really cool. For the beginning I was wondered 
 why I being transfer to the underworld and listen to a stranger who asked me to save him. 1 thing 
 I dislike on this games is when the young child in this games is all the same face and I prefer 
 to rescue her rather than killing her even in my mine that I hate her looking.
  
  I was only enjoy the part when my battle with mr. bubble, but sometimes I was lazy to deal with 
 that big machines I just only control his mind and try to call him to help me in advanced. If I 
 feel tiring to play with him I will just direct rid him off from my screen. Sound evil isn't it?
 
  
  Never know that this story have 2 ending which conclude your action on the little girl which you 
 kill her to receive max adam or save her. At the end of the story they will revenge to human because 
 of your own stupidity's for riding off the girl. 
  
  This games is greatly recommended for those who love shooting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Total_mischief
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is a very interesting shooter and that gives a new feel to the FPS. The powers you gain 
 through the game (I can't remember exactly how they're called) are surprisingly fun to use and 
 you can go through various situations different ways depending on your selected powers. You can 
 hack the turrets so they shoot your enemies instead, shock them or just set them aflame.
  
  The choices you have between absorbing the little sisters Adams or changing them back into real 
 children is a good addition, giving you more Adams if you absorb them or special gifts if you let 
 them live, and will, in the end, change the ending. 
  
  The story isn't too present but it has a few twists that you are certainly going to like, I won't 
 give any spoilers.
  
  The graphics are quite good and I've found very few bugs/glitches while going through the game, 
 wich is a large plus.
  
  The only downside I've found is the lack of a multiplayer mode and how easy the final boss is to 
 beat. But overall, Bioshock is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amplifystryder
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is an amazing game! I beat it in... what was it? I think it was just over two days. Whatever. 
 
  I like RPG's the most when it comes to genre, followed close behind by the big gun behemoths like 
 the halo series, I also like a horror twist to some games. This game is a pure blend of a fantastic, 
 unique story, plus my two favorite gaming genres molded into a terrifying survival story of an 
 unfortunate man who happened to live through a "Unfortunate Terrorist Attack". Being in a plane 
 when some terrorists attacked over the ocean, leading the plane to plummet to the cold depths below. 
 
  Unknowingly, you stumble upon Rapture, an undersea utopia where, as Andrew Ryan (maker of rapture, 
 alongside Fontaine) says, "There is no god, only man." A city where there's no communism, no crime, 
 no flaws, no government at all, perfection at it's best. The introduction of the genetic altering 
 plasmids also makes it so that people think they can be like superheroes, or they just make use 
 of them to make life more simplistic.
  Unfortunatly, these plasmids backfire, turning nearly every person in rapture into a psychopathic 
 bloody freakshow. 
  Plunged into this world only with a guide named Atlas to help you, you embark on a quest to escape 
 the living hell that is, Rapture. Using as much ammuntion, heavy artillery, and plasmids you can 
 find to defeat the monstrosities that plague you.
  
  There is a lot more, and I mean A LOT more to the story and gameplay.
  I just have to say I loved 
 this game and I couldn't put it down. 
  
  P. S. Everyone has heard of the monsterous 'Big Daddy'. Guys don't fall for it, once you get past 
 the first two or three it becomes a breeze. Seriously, those first couple Big Daddy's, and the 
 bosses of the game, are all you really have to worry about. Unless you play on hard mode, in which 
 case, worry about everything. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: demigod_r
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  I hesitated for months about getting this game and now that I picked it up, I don't know why it 
 took me so long (ok, I wasn't paying $50) .
  
  I haven't even finished the first level and this game is amazing. If you go into the game thinking 
 it's just another FPS, you'll DEFINITELY be surprised. Graphics are amazing and sound affects are 
 perfect. I have an ok PC and I'm playing the game on the highest settings. The detail of the ocean 
 is impressive, I like the fact that a wrench is your first weapon and the first gun I grabbed was 
 in sync with the era the game is portraying and c'mon, how could you not love 'the power of electricity'?
 
  
  I was about to snap when there was no audio after the plane crashed but once I ran the game as 
 the Administrator, it was all good.
  
  I'm going to install he Mod that makes the game more challenging........ not that it needs it.
 
  
  I can see why this got game of the year for 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a little different format from most of the reviews I've written. In the game forums, I 
 have encountered a large number of players who absolutely love the game, and an equally large number 
 who, like myself, felt some disappointment. The game truly does have some remarkable features, 
 but there are also some significant shortcomings. So, being as fair and honest as I can, I've presented 
 my review in an outline format, detailing the game's strong points, then pointing out it's weaknesses, 
 and concluding with an assessment that I hope encapsulates why many players are leery about calling 
 Bioshock "Game of the Year".
  
  
  THE GOOD,
  1) An intriguing story which, if you pay attention, provides one of the best plot lines to come 
 out in a long time. Granted, you can find a couple of minor holes if you nit-pick, but over all, 
 it succeeds at providing a compelling reason to slug your way to the endsomething that is sorely 
 lacking in many releases.
  
  2) Visually, Bioshock is about as good as it gets, particularly the water effects. The first time 
 there was a major breach in one of the hallways in Rapture, I could only watch in awe as the cascading 
 water rushed in and filled the chamber. In addition, through out much of Rapture there is a combined 
 feeling of decadence and decay, and this post-WWII world is presented in all its eerie beauty. 
 Finally, since Rapture IS an underwater city, you might expect a lot of repetitive environments. 
 Happily, this is not the case. I think the developers have done an admirable job of presenting 
 quite a bit of variety, and what's even more surprising, justifying it. It would be logical to 
 expect a lot of close corridors and industrial settings, but would you believe a forested area? 
 And it actually makes sense within the context of the story. Very well done.
  
  3) Sound is excellent, despite the occasional glitches. The vintage music that is usually playing 
 on some jukebox or phonograph, the dynamic sound effects and musical score, and the excellent voice 
 acting all contribute greatly to the awesome atmosphere. But for me, the cake is in the forlorn 
 whale-like call of the Big Daddies as they search for their wardsit gives me the shivers every 
 time I hear it. Awesome.
  
  4) Interesting cast of bad guys, even if they do get a little repetitive. And they do get tougher 
 as the game progresses. For example, the Thuggish Splicers in the first couple of levels are merely 
 carrying wrenches or pipes, but by the end of the game they're equipped with an electro-powered 
 wrench and are immune to electrical attacksaggravating at times, but cool.
  
  5) Solid combat sequences. Although the AI is far from perfect, your foes will behave realistically 
 enough to keep you on your toes. And using the right type of ammo is crucial, particularly in the 
 early levels. A Splicer can eat almost a full clip of regular ammo from the Tommy gun, but switch 
 to anti-personnel and he'll drop in five to ten rounds.
  
  6) VERY entertaining NPC interactions. Watching how the Little Sisters, Big Daddies, and Splicers 
 all play together is amazing. And the insane mumblings or singing of the Splicers ranges from laugh-out-loud 
 funny to spine tingling-ly creepy.
  
  THE BAD,
  1) The awesome features that were borrowed from System Shock 2 feel like they were 'dumbed down' 
 in Bioshock. For example, Researching in SS2 first requires the expenditure of finite resources 
 to develop and upgrade the skill to the point where you can even use it. Then, you have to find 
 the necessary chemical reagents or equipment to conduct the research and gain some benefit. In 
 Bioshock, you take a picturemaybe several picturesand you're done. And that's just one example. 
 Upgrading or repairing weapons, improving your physical capabilities, securing resources or suppliesall 
 these features are present in both productions. But rather than improving on them for Bioshock, 
 it feels instead like the developers over-simplified them to the point of mediocrity.
  
  2) The 'moral choices' and 'the need to scrounge for ammo and materials' that were so widely hyped 
 in the pre-release press simply do not exist. The player is hit over the head with the notion that 
 'saving is good', because the benefits of doing so far exceed the benefits of NOT doing so. And 
 as far as any scarcity of supplies goes, as long as you're not wasteful and are thorough in your 
 exploration, by the fourth level you should be leaving behind untouched caches of ammo and med 
 kits.
  
  3) The mutually exclusive choices that are present in games like System Shock 2 and Deus Ex (and 
 were promised in Bioshock) , again, simply don't exist. By the end, you'll have max'd out all your 
 weapons, and any of your genetic weapons or capabilities that you don't presently have equipped 
 are readily available at one of the omni-present Gene Banks. Granted, you may not have the resources 
 to purchase all the plasmids and tonics that are available, but you'll certainly have enough for 
 the most useful ones. Sure, the Insect Swarm is fun to use, but given how much more effective other 
 plasmids are, the Swarm doesn't have much impact on game-play whether you own it or not.
  
  4) Vita Chambers remove most of the anxiety and sense of danger. The fact that they are an interesting 
 part of the story doesn't compensate for the fact that they erode any tension or intensity.
  
  5) After the first three or four levels, the game loses much of its challenge, due to the reasons 
 outlined above.
  
  AND THE UGLY.
  Bioshock in it's own right is a solid production. It's an amazing visual presentation of a unique 
 environmental setting, coupled with an intricately detailed story full of interesting characters 
 and villains. And for that, it warrants some high marks. But given the expectations many of us 
 had due to the pre-release references to it being "the spiritual successor to System Shock 2", 
 it simply falls short of it's potential. In the end, Bioshock utilizes some of the most amazing 
 features from other venerable classics, and then proceeds to over-simplify them to the point where 
 they either feel contrived, or trivial. 
  
  And that is truly unfortunate, because retaining some complexity could have done a lot to increase 
 the tension, and the subsequent level of involvement felt by the player. Upgrading weapons SHOULD 
 be more difficult than simply activating a specific type of vending machine. The 'scarce' raw materials 
 necessary for producing high-powered ammunition should actually BE scarce. Selection of physical 
 upgrades and plasmids should be an 'either-or' decision, and NOT entail a quick stop at a conveniently 
 located Gene Bank to swap in whatever powers suit the present situation. As good as Bioshock is, 
 these few simple changes could have raised it to another level. HOWEVER... despite these shortcomings, 
 the bottom line is that I would recommend this game to anyone. You may not love it, you may feel 
 some disappointment, but I can't imagine why anyone would hate it.
  
  In closing, I am reminded of a line from the Oscar-winning movie "Gladiator", when Oliver Reed 
 is entreating Russell Crowe to strive for his full potential.
  
  "You're good, Spaniardbut you could be MAGNIFICENT!"
  
  Alas, the developers didn't heed Proximo's 
 advice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jervar1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Bottom line... thus far, there are only a few games that are any good at all. Don't waste your time 
 or money buying older games. This game is much much better than most and after playing this you 
 will not be satisfied with anything less. So in other words, stick to the new games and forget 
 about the older ones. Be careful to check out the previews though because they will try to stick 
 a game in with the old crap and nobody should buy or accept that kind of stuff. I mean they should 
 be aware that we expect that when new games come out, they should be better not the same or worse, 
 right. It gets very easy to pick out the good ones from the cheesy ones and it gets very frustrating 
 buying them time after time and being dissatisfied. Bla, Bla, Bla, Bla, Bla, Bla... I highly recommend 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aitbomeron
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 1:48 am PT
Review:  Ive been a PC gamer since Abe's Odyssey. This has to be the best game since I played the original 
 Unreal game. The story was fantastic. Of course, a little tequila helps. But then, thats how Ive 
 always played. I like the way they didnt go for ultra realism. The levels were so surreal that 
 I spent many hours just wandering the halls. The baddies were not as various I would have liked, 
 but the scenery changed enough to make it interesting
  
  Now, I have an excellent PC. So, I could max everything out, but to just watch how the spider splicers 
 crawl across the ceiling and hang around with such smoothness, You just sit in awe. Im going to 
 replay it and kill all the Little Sisters, just to see. There really isnt any need for a multiplayer. 
 There are plenty of others for that.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone.
  
  Kefta 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necollix
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock, in my opinion starts off amazing. Most of that is do to the art design and atmosphere. 
 As it's really a different take from every other game, which is mostly future and technology oriented. 
 Whereas Bioshock is mostly old-fashioned architecture.
  
  I don't think Bioshock is a terrible game. But I believe that since so many elements that were 
 promised never made it into the game, that my disappointment grew too much. After the interviews 
 and in-game demos I was under the impression that the game was going to have significant RPG-Like 
 elements and that "The player would always be scrounging" for goods type of game play. There was 
 also supposed to be gun-modification. Sadly, none of that exists.
  
  The Good:
  
  Sound, atmosphere, art, lighting, style, and the overall idea for the game, is amazing. Although 
 I do think at sometimes they tried to use far too many effects, regardless, this is a very art 
 driven game. And I respect that, a lot. The game really excels at making a beautiful utopia a sadistic 
 playground simultaneously. 
  
  The Bad:
  
  Running out of Health kits, Eve, ammo, money, u-invent goods, and absolutely everything else, is 
 NEVER a problem. You don't need to conserve ammo like they said you would. But hell, why use the 
 ammo when you have your trusty wrench? That's right, the wrench is, in every aspect strong than 
 any weapon in your inventory. (Minus the grenade launcher) And all the Tonics you'll collect in 
 regards to increasing damage are ALL wrench related. "Swing wrench faster" "Increase damage dealt 
 to unsuspecting foes... with the wrench." and at one point, if you research a specific creature 
 to it's maximum you gain a permanent 50% damage increase with the wrench.
  
  And this is what makes the VERY dumbed down, and console feeling "Weapon Modification" so insignificant. 
 "Weapon modification" as 2KA calls it, is based on two things. Ammo type and only TWO available 
 mods to each gun. But you don't need to collect items to upgrade them, they don't cost money. Simply, 
 you walk up to a machine, click on the "Increase pistol clip size" and done. But wait - nothings 
 changed. Lets take AP Ammo as an example. You're alloted 24 bullets of this type. 6 in a clip/18 
 in your back pocket. You increase clip size (Mod increases it by 4x) So we go from 6 to 24 bullets 
 in the clip. But you can't carry the extra 18 bullets you had before. Essentially NOTHING has changed 
 except I no longer reload. Which is barely a problem. And conveniently there are enough mod stations 
 to get every mod for every gun.
  
  The idea behind Bioshock was the player was going to have to make MORAL and DIFFICULT decisions. 
 None exist. The only TRUE choice you get in the game is to harvest or save the Little Sisters. 
 And there's only ONE reason to Harvest them. To get the Evil ending. What was SUPPOSED to happen 
 was if you harvest the girls, you get more Adam, allowing stronger fireball throwing abilities. 
 Unfortunately you get REWARDED for saving them beyond reason. For every 3 Little sister saved, 
 A woman will reward you with 200 Adam, Already nearly equalling the amount of Adam you'd normally 
 get, then add on FREE plasmids and Tonics (Which normally cost Adam) and free health kits, Eve 
 Hypos, - ect. You become stronger saving them. The complete opposite of what was intended and promised.
 
  
  There's no inventory. It has a "Prey" style death penalty. Which means there's no penalty. You 
 revive at the nearest Vita-Chamber.
  
  And unfortunately because Ammo is so easy to get, Big Daddy's, are VERY easy to kill. There are 
 essentially two techniques to use. make a line of proxy grenades (You'll have enough, all the time) 
 and then stand at the other end and shoot him. And since there's almost no A. I (Aside from strafing 
 left and right spastically) they'll run convienantly into all of them killing himself. And not 
 to long into the game you'll get a gun that shoots a beam of Electric Gel. The Big Daddy CANNOT 
 move while being shot, so you sit there and laser him until he dies, no health kits needs, no plasmids 
 required. No fuss.
  
  The game suffers from making EVERYTHING too available. It's simply a linear corridor crawl. There 
 are no choices to make, the story is boring about half way through the game, and at the same point, 
 becomes repetitive. The ammo types damage difference is just plain weird. Point blank to the face 
 of a Splicer with an Armor piercing round nearly does no damage, but Anti-Personal will kill them 
 in one hit. It's a bullet, to the face, at point blank range. The idea is good, the execution is 
 poor.
  
  It's definitely a game worth playing. But it's got no replay value once you've completed it. And 
 the combat system is boring, and since the game ends up being shooter, it doesn't add up well. 
 It could've easily been a lot more if they gave the player freedom to roam around Rapture as they 
 see fit much like STALKER. But it's just too linear and easy, and it just ends up being boring 
 and nothing more than an average shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleaner1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Well the game's graphics are some what cartoon-ish but part from that this game is great, I didn't 
 have this much fun playing a first person shooter since doom3.
  The game is not very difficult to complete even on the hardest difficulty, but it makes up for 
 it when you have to deal with the big daddy's.
  The plasmids (what an amazing idea) are the best thing in the game it gives you a hole new range 
 weapons to choose from and they are upgradable as well so who needs guns any way.
  Even the story line has some good plots in it and that's what keeping you in front of the computer 
 just because you want to know what happened in RAPTURE that destroyed it.
  So to sum things up, this is one of the best first person shooters out there so get the game you 
 want be sorry I can assure you, you'll enjoy every second of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Yes, Bioshock is all it's cracked up to be.
  
  Rapture is as amazing as the trailers described.
  Your enemies are no pushovers, and take clever 
 tactics to outsmart.
  The little sisters offer you some serious temptation.
  And, a certain dentist in the game WILL scare you ****
  
  Let me begin with the audio, graphics, 
 and interface. It's all been done very well except for the interface. I find the controls to be 
 on the clumsy side, because there are many buttons that could actually be spread out better or 
 compressed into a single button. For example, the inventory system borders on ugly. It shows you 
 the weapons and plasmids that you have equipped. Some improvements could be done to integrate this 
 screen with your "PDA" which records all the audio diaries you pick up, and serves as your map.
 
  
  Still, not much to fault there. Next, I'll move on to technical issues. There have been many complaints 
 about sound loss and the like in Vista. But I ran the game on Vista just fine with an X-Fi Gamer 
 and 8800GTS. Granted, I applied the hotfixes, and patched the game. In my case, I also had to disable 
 desktop composition to get it running in proportion with my monitor. But all these minor issues 
 are issues nonetheless, which contributes to the lower score.
  
  In terms of storyline and plot, this game doesn't disappoint. Many complaints have been voiced 
 about the ending, and that your choices regarding the little sisters don't affect the gameplay. 
 To avoid spoilers, I'll just say that the ending will be a low note compared to the rest of the 
 game, but not to the point that it's plain stupid. However, it IS true that your choices on whether 
 to save or harvest the little sisters will not affect anything except your ADAM count, and the 
 final cinematic. To sum it up, the game could have afforded to give us a better ending, so that's 
 a disappointment.
  
  Finally, I would just like to say that all the complaints regarding the game are relatively small 
 compared to the fun and thrills that are in store for the rest of the game. In truth, this is one 
 game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gooeykat
Rating: 8
Date: May 21, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Bioshock does two things very well. Atmosphere and story-line are the two key strengths of this 
 game. The graphics and artistic design of rapture is fantastic and the game runs well even on below 
 average systems. The story is also very good (kudos goes to Ken Levine) and delivery of the story 
 (voice-acting, sound, music and production values are fantastic) .
  
  Okay, now onto the bad...
  
  Is it a First Person Shooter?
  
  No, it's not a FPS and if 
 it is, it fails miserably. The gameplay is where this game really is a let down. This game utterly 
 fails as a first person shooter. The weapons are all (and I mean all) horrible. The game maps are 
 too small and two confined basically this is corridor shooter (ala doom) only you have crappy weapons. 
 
  
  Is it a Role Playing Game?
  
  Not really and again if it is, it fails. The choices you have in the game revolve around being 
 able to either harvest or save the little sisters and whether or not you want to use weapons or 
 plasmids (or a combination of the two) to play the game.
  
  You have no freedom in the game at all. To go where you want to do what you want. It is very much 
 like Call of Duty 4 in this regard. You are carefully guided through this storyline and don't even 
 think about straying from the path. That's fine but again, for an RPG, it sucks.
  
  So in conclusion...
  
  I have no problem with hybrid games (games that try to combine genres) 
 but if you're going to attempt this, you better get at least one of the genres right. Bioshock 
 does not. A good example of a game that was successful at combining the FPS/RPG genres was STALKER. 
 I would highly recommend that one over Bioshock. It has an open world with real choices and real 
 consequences and does both the FPS and RPG mechanics very well.
  
  On a personal note, the game reviewers really should be ashamed of themselves for swooning over 
 this game. The group think involved with Bioshock by game reporting industry is truly disturbing. 
 Gamespot was the only publication that rightly pointed out some of this games major failings, although 
 they still gave it a 9.0 (which didn't make any sense) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  BioShock is a different kind of first person shooters (FPS) that exist. in BioShock first scene, 
 you are a passenger of a flight which be destroyed shortly. You ind yourself floating in the water. 
 Here you learn your basic movements. Thanks to the training system, there is no special training 
 session before you start playing; you learn while you play. Being the only survivor of the plane 
 crash, you move to a lighthouse and see a some kind of underwater elevator. Getting on this elevator, 
 the mystery begins.
  
  The game is occurred in the underwater city called Rapture. This place is ruled by Ryan. From the 
 beginning you are in contact with some mysterious guy named Atlas which guide you through the city. 
 Based on what this guy says, Ryan is a bad guy and you should kill him. This part is no different 
 than other FPS which you should kill the big boss. When you reach Ryan, suddenly you understand 
 who you are; A SLAVE. you do what Atlas tells you to do. Then Ryan insanely order you to kill him 
 with a golf club! Now you understand that your true enemy is someone else, Fontaine. So this story 
 makes it different than the other FPS story lines.
  
  Some innovation occurred in the game which worth noticing. You have several combat skills, engineering 
 skills and plasmids which you can equip throughout the game to help you do things better. For example 
 you can equip combat tonics to specialize you in attacks or engineering tonics to help you hack 
 things better. Beside these tonics, you can equip plasmids which is operated by your character 
 left hand. these plasmids includes electric bolt, incinerate, winter blast and etc. Each of these 
 plasmid works on special objects or enemies. For example some enemies are immune to electric bolts 
 but also vulnerable to incinerate. The combination of your fire power and plasmids, you can design 
 a good strategy to kill your opponents. 
  
  Another innovation is the turrets and security cameras. When you are detected by turrets, it starts 
 to fire at you. If you are detected by a security camera, several security bots come to kill you 
 so you should avoid them. There is an alternative way which is to hack them. When you hack them 
 it works for you. For example if you hack a turret, it starts to kill your enemy. There are also 
 other hackable objects in the games. Vending machines, armor selling machines and safes are examples 
 of these objects. These machines provide health and firepower which you can buy them with the money 
 you collect by looting the corpses or searching containers. Beside these armors and ammos, you 
 can equip different types of ammos for a single weapon. For example you can equip anti-personnel 
 and armor-piercing along with a normal bullet for your pistol. Each ammo is good to destroy specific 
 enemies. 
  
  The AI of the enemies are good. If they are seriously wounded, they will heal themselves with the 
 nearest health station so you can not simply hide and fir a bullet at them and wait them to be 
 dead. The good part of the game is its amazing in game sounds. The look real and horrify you sometimes. 
 The graphic is also great. The game worked prefect with my Vista and GeForce 8800 GTS and I saw 
 no glitches. The bad parts is the hacking part. You get used to the hacking game which bores you 
 when you encounter several hacking in a row. The game could be more interesting by applying different 
 kind of hacking games. 
  
  Beside these pros and cons, if you look for a different kind of FPS, you should try BioShock.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is a thoroughly impressive game in terms of story-telling and atmosphere. In those 2 specific 
 areas, Bioshock is pretty much as perfect as a game can be. Graphically the game is marvelous too. 
 Unlike many recent big-name games, the glowy and blurry effects genuinely enhance the atmosphere 
 and these effects are used sparingly rather than all over every object. So for example, everything 
 doesnt emit a radioactive glow like Oblivion did with sheep and rocks and well everything that 
 was light-colored in that game. Lighting is beautifully done thru out BioShock. Level-design is 
 100% impressive amd encourages you to explore every level.
  
  "So it looks nice but what about gameplay?"
  
  I played the game at hard difficulty and the 
 enemies put up a good fight. If I try to ignite them on fire they will run to a pool of water or 
 they might run to a nearby healing machine. Some are complaining about the lack of variety of enemies 
 but I haven't felt bored. Some enemies use guns and some use blades. Some throw grenades at you. 
 Some attack from above and others lunge at you. I don't think the game needs more different kinds 
 of enemies. I like the ability to customize your character's abilities. You've got plenty of choices 
 and you can change most of your choices with little fuss if you don't like your character's current 
 proficiencies. But the game isn't perfect. There is zero death penalty in the game and this gets 
 a bit ridiculous. There are many respawn points and you can simply re-enter the battle again and 
 again until everything else is dead. Nothing gets to respawn except your character. I suppose this 
 was done to make the game "easier" (?) but when you are playing the game it simply feels lame. 
 While this isn't a game-breaker, it brings the score down. It just doesn't feel right in the context 
 of the game to respawn over and over like that. It also reduces the challenge level quite a significant 
 bit, even at hard difficulty. Overall, its truly a must play game and it certainly is the best 
 single player PC game in years. Not since Chronicles of Riddick has there been a single-player 
 action game this good on PC. System Shock as an action RPG still beats Bioshock by miles though. 
 BioShock unfortunately is not one of the best games e 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chozzenn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  To start off this game starts off pretty fast, crash landing a plan and making a dash for a piece 
 of land that you don't what the hell it is just want to get there to survive, and then you travel 
 down a ball into a giant underwater city where you become trapped, coincidences of course. I believed 
 Bioshock really came out to be the hype that was built up for it, of course there was a few bugs 
 but I didn't have much problems. The graphics are perfect for the theme of the game, and the water 
 effects are just amazing, you could find yourself playing around with the enviroment sometimes. 
 The levels are also a huge plus, massive environment to run around in not knowing what is in each 
 room around the corner. At the beginning of the game I found myself getting scared easily but as 
 the game wore on it got less and less frightening, mainly because I was getting used to it but 
 there were still a few scenes where you can hear something and not know where it is. The plasmids 
 are a very unique touch to the game, the variation of them makes it very open to your options. 
 
  The sounds are also pretty good, not the greatest heard but they fit the gameplay nothing noticeable. 
 
  Bioshock is just an all in all good game to have around, there are several alternate endings and 
 the range of plasmids and weapons make the game very interesting and worthwhile to playback again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danimita
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  When the main character's plane crashes in the see, after a bit of swimming, we find the entrance 
 to a submarine city. But something's terribly wrong about it.
  
  Okay, so have you ever been in a theme park's "Horror Tunnel"? You know, you go though the tunnel, 
 you see statues move, scary sounds etcetera etcetera. Well, Bioshock is very similar, jsut mix 
 it with weapons, enemies, Captain Nemo's submarine and old fashioned machines, and a little bit 
 of genetic modification that causes powers similar to TV's "Heroes" series.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Mainly, the game is about talking to nutters, protecting yourself from nutters, killing guys in 
 submarine suits, and deciding if little girls and the best happy ending ever in a game are important 
 to you. Then there's the genetic modifications and the "looting dead enemies" things.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Best water effects ever seen in a game. From the moment you begin the game, you're 
 surrounded by water. RIght until the very end. Meanwhile, the weapons and characters look a little... 
 cartoon-like, sometimes. But still, great.
  
  SOUND:
  Old style music and decent voice acting (I really needed the subtitles to understand what they 
 were saying, maybe it's just I'm not used to their accents) .
  
  STORY:
  Great, many twists and turns, best happy ending ever, no so good bad ending.
  
  WORTH BUYING?: 
 I'd recomend rental, since you can finish it in a couple of days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_arora87
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  The game starts in this underwater city called rapture where u reach after surviving a plane crash..... u 
 are then taken underwater in this sub kind of thing called bathysphere...... as u reach there u 
 see that the entire city is destroyed with weird characters called splicers roaming around all 
 over the place.... as u progress in the game u aquire new plasmids and diffrent kind of weapons...... the 
 graphics and the story line are the best part of the game i would say..... the enviornment that 
 is created , the places and the water effects makes it look very much real but as u move ahead 
 in the game it gets repetitive..... after a certain point of time u get bored of killing those stupid 
 splicers.... also u can hack into vending machines and security bots n stuff like that which looks 
 cool in the starting but then u get bored of it later on.... shooting at those security camera's 
 everytime to avoid the security alarms from going off is also annoying in the end...... there's 
 a nice twist in the storyline the effect of which was reduced for me as i read the reviews before 
 playing and so expected it already....... in the end i finished the game cauz of the story only... about 
 which also i found out right now that it ends in 2 diffrent ways.... for me the ending was the bad 
 one... there's a good ending as well....... the bad ending feels abrupt..... it goes on for hardly 
 15-20 seconds which feels pretty stupid.... it could have been more detailed and something better.....
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redalucard1977
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  The graphics in the game a solid. The storyline is outstanding, wild, weird, and a little psycho. 
 The weapons are decent. My favorite was the crossbow. The special abilities are awesome. I loved 
 this game. The action was very fun but the storyline is what addicted me. There were several parts 
 of the game when you think, "WHAT IN THE WORLD!?" Morals come into play in the game. The ability 
 to hack vending machines for cheaper ammo and supplies is awesome. Many reviews have good and bad 
 but I can't think of any bad points from this game. It was all-around outstanding. I recommended 
 this game to several friends of mine. When the game first came out and I saw the trailers and reviews 
 I was a bit uncertain but after playing it for myself I have no regrets what so ever. Definitely 
 check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david_sangma
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  All the hype around Bioshock made me get a copy of the game and i must say that at the same time 
 i got Crysis and Call of Duty 4 MW and among the three Bioshock is the only one that i have not 
 finished till now. Not because the game is tough because the game actually is pretty easy you can 
 keep spawning from the vita chambers and will get the enemies just as they were. 
  
  However the reason i didnt finish the game is because i havent played it. I got bored. The same 
 enemies keep popping up. Different types of splicers. There are not much varities by the way. Handful 
 of types of splicers. The plasmid modifications also got me bored after a while. I wanted a action 
 game not something which is a cross between Sims and FPS. I am tired of modification. Come on. 
 Crysis lets you modify your guns and suits as per the requirement but this game forces you to change 
 and modify. 
  
  The graphics look good. No complaint about that. The underwater city is truly amazing. The water 
 effects are very nice. The system requirements are also not something you will have to sell you 
 kidney for so thats good. 
  
  The sound of the game is top notch. Liked the sound effects but come on 2K i wont play a game for 
 its sound and looks only. Where is the gameplay? Why is it so boring after a while? I mean it was 
 fun in the beginning but upgrading your plasmids at every corner is and putting the main focus 
 on that not done. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vipsanius
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This game takes place in Rapture, and underwater city built by Andrew Ryan. This city was built 
 for one purpose... to gather the world's best atlhets, scientists, artists etc... so that they won't 
 be constrained by the small.
  It was only a matter of time until the cientists developed something really great... ADAM... a deep 
 sea parasite that alters you DNA so you can have various powers like plasmids which need to be 
 charged with EVE. Although this discovery was meant to improve the world it actually started a war 
 for power in rapture... everyone wanted more ADAM so they could be stronger and that caused a civil 
 war in rapture.
  You play has Jack... even though you (the player) are new to the city, your character isn't .He was 
 born in rapture and his father is Andrew Ryan... When jack was small he was used for experiments... he 
 was probably the first project for the Big Daddies program... but jack was sent away from rapture 
 so that he could return when he was needed... that's why the plain crashes, Jack highjacks it not 
 because he wanted it was because he was told too (when jack was small fountaine put on him some 
 kind of psychological trygger that pushes you to do everything he wants... that's why Atlas says 
 "would you kinly..." all the time.. that's the trigger..
  In rapture youll encounter multiple enemies such has spider splicers (fast and strong) , houdini 
 splicers (has a teleportation skill and some plasmids like electro bolt and incinerate) and thugglish 
 splicers (average enemies) among others...
  You'll be guided throughout the game by Atlas (Fountaine) that is actually your final boss... Another 
 big plus on Bioshock is the Big Daddie... this Big Daddie is incredibly powerful and fast was created 
 to protect the Little sisters that harvest the blood of fallen enemies so that she can recycle 
 their ADAM...
  This game is really a work of art and you too should also try it... Rapture awaits you my friend! 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dmbowers98
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock Is a game about a guy (You) , who starts in an airplane and it crashes. or so you think. 
 So to make it quick. You crash into Rapture which is home to Big Daddies (Protecters of Little 
 Sisters) , LIttle Sisters (Adamated little girls who are holders of all the adam in Rapture) , And 
 Splicers (Basicly the little minions of Frank Fountain) .
  Frank Fountain built Rapture and doesnt want the outside world to know about it. And if you've 
 beaten this game, you know that he is actually your father... You are a test tube baby,
  You fight your way through Rapture to find him, and while on your way through you fight many big 
 daddys, obtain plasmids, and probably die a bunch of times.
  * (Spoiler) * When you get to the end, there are 2 endings, well 3 if you count the voice differences. 
 One where you release all of the Evil from Rapture, and it kills the world... The bad ending.
  And if you save all of the little sisters, you grow up as their father on the surface and the stay 
 with you untill death.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jernas
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  So I finally got my hands on Bioshock. I've been tracking this game for years and just recently 
 finished it. Although I never played System Shock, my favourite game is Deus Ex. So now you'll 
 going to see, how this game stands up against other fps games. But this time around we are set 
 into a new built city under watter, called Rapture.
  
  To start with the story, it is quite deep and it gets better and better towards the end. At the 
 beginning some things may seem a bit unconnected, but later on, you'll remember the early stories 
 and connect them to people you find then. But it's offcourse not just the story that is worth mentioning. 
 It's combat system that makes the game exciting. Mostly because AI in this game is very good. Graphics 
 are very good also, Rapture is very detailed and watter is more realistic than in any other game. 
 But nothing can outperform the sounds of Rapture. There are also a lot of small things that make 
 this game very attractive like plasmids, tonics...
  
  But there are also downsides, sadly. The problem is that you are fighting same enemies throughout 
 the whole game and that makes Bioshock quite repetitive. Also menus are not that well designed, 
 and you are easily lost trying to find very important message. Bioshock is also quite a system 
 hog and there are some slowdowns when fighting a lot of enemies in a complex scene. Also the game 
 is very psychotic with a lot of blood, but I cannot tell if that is bad or good. And I have to 
 say this one more thing here, which is that the game is too short. When you finally get used to 
 plasmids, tonics and other tools, the game is over. 
  
  Don't think now that I was disappointed. Bioshock is a great game overall, maybe a bit repetitive 
 but a great game. You won't miss anything by getting it, you'll miss a lot by missing it! And that's 
 the whole point. So is a new Deus Ex in the house? No it's Bioshock! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  There's hardly anything I could say (or need to say) about Bioshock that hasn't already been said 
 countless times. This is one of the definitive games in the first-person genre, right alongside 
 the original Half-Life and Deus Ex, for players who want a fully realized world to explore and 
 riveting storyline to become engrossed with.
  
  There are only a few niggling points with Bioshock that hold it back from a perfect 10 and those 
 are:
  
  * Replayability isn't as great as it could have been. The supposedly "major plot choice" you must 
 make turns out to be a rather superficial decision which doesn't necessarily make a huge impact 
 on the overall experience in the game. Specializing in either traditional firearms or plasmids 
 is also unnecessary, as you can easily master both combat types in one playthrough.
  
  * No multiplayer or mod-making tools somewhat limit the game's shelf life. I absolutely devoured 
 my first playthrough, then slowly enjoyed every detail of the second playthrough ... but after 
 that, you're basically finished with the game.
  
  * Unsatisfying final boss encounter doesn't quite live up to the greatness achieved throughout 
 the rest of the game.
  
  * A single overly long level in the middle of the game (Arcadia) drags on a bit too long
  
 
  In the grand scheme of things, those are minor quibbles. If you only play three PC games in your 
 entire life, those games should be:
  
  1. World of Warcraft
  2. Half-Life
  and 3. Bioshock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 8
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Bioshock is a great game that is worth playing, however, should it be called game of the year? 
 Bioshock has amazing features that have never been seen before in a game and that is what makes 
 it different from other first-person shooters. Well the story goes like this, you are a man named 
 Jack Thompson, who survives a horrible plane crash that landed him in the middle of the Atlantic 
 Ocean. Once you start playing, you will swim to a light house and take a elevator that takes you 
 down to a under water city called Rapture. The city of Rapture use to be a peaceful place but something 
 wrong was going on. Moreover, the game takes place in the 1960's and Bioshock greatly shows that 
 with a sci-fi twist. You will recieve many weapons, such as, a thompson, shotgun, crossbow, grenade 
 laucher, and much more. But weapons aren't the only things you will be using to battle through 
 Rapture, Jack will receive left hand powers, such as, flame, ice, wind, & bees. For example if 
 you have the ice powers selected then you can freeze an enemy or with the fire power you can set 
 the enemies on fire until they burn to death. However, you can't just go along an use those powers 
 without "ammo" called eve. Also, there are many vending machines where you can purchase ammo, eve, health, 
 and etc. Furthermore, the character on the cover of the game is a big enemy that you will battle 
 against throughout the whole game, they are called big daddies. The big daddies protect mutated 
 girls and so if you attack the girl, the big daddy will attack you. So you may be thinking that 
 you will just leave the girl alone, but you need something called adams that the little girls hold. 
 Once you kill the big daddy, you have a choice to harvest or rescue the little girl. If you rescue 
 the little girl she then will become back to a normal human girl, but you will receive less adam. 
 On the other hand, if you harvest her, she will die but you will receive more adam. The games ending 
 is chosen by the way you treat the little girls. There are 3 different endings which I will not 
 spoil but I will say that it is in your hands. Overall, Bioshock is a great and innovative game 
 that has not been seen before in gaming history. This game will leave many memorable moments but 
 should it be called game of the year. In my opinion, the answer is no, but I will leave that up 
 to you to choose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fALConxxii
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Me and my 360 were feeling bored, so i rented BioShock and was amazed! A plane crash near uncharted 
 land brings you to a pod sending you deep in the Biosphere. Immidiately you incounter horrors you 
 could only dream of, a city so messed up the citizens fight for power. When you set foot in Rapture, 
 you meet a guy named Atlas. He guides you through the city to your safety. You have to help him 
 save his family. There are drugs called Plasmids that give you powers such as electrocution or 
 incinerating. You, however, have to find drugs called 'EVE' to use these powers. Later on you encounter 
 little girls called Little Sisters who are guarded by heavily mutated giants. If you can defeat 
 the Big Daddies, you have a chance to save the little sisters and get less adam, or kill them to 
 get more. You can then use your adam at Gatherers Gardens (vending machines) . With it you can buy 
 plasmid slots and Plasmid upgrades. THe only demerit i give to this game is the parts where you 
 need to find items to make stuff. It can be kinda time consuming. Ove all, this is one of the best 
 games ive ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex1029
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  So I started off playing this game with not expecting too much. I've read mixed reviews on the 
 game, but most have been pretty good. I never pass judgement until I've played a game for at least 
 a couple hours. After playing this game for about 4 hours straight one night, I realized that I 
 had been sucked into the world of Rapture. If a game can do that to you without you realizing that 
 you are not actually part of the game... thats a damn good game.
  This game has your classic thriller/horror/FPS feeling except the environment you are in is totally 
 immersive. The banter of the splicers in the game adds a sense of realism to the whole thing as 
 you make your way around Rapture trying to get the hell out.
  There are several surprises in the game that kinda take you back since you are doing all these 
 tasks for a guy that comes over the radio every once in a while telling you what to do.
  I think that making this game take place in the past, coupled with the high level of detail makes 
 the game unique. There is so much more I could say about this game... but its really hard to describe 
 my thoughts in words.... just remember, this game is freaking awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  I hadn't played a good story-driven FPS in a very long time. Call of Duty 4 filled the gap a little, 
 but it was still a "tactical" shooter. While COD4 was amazing itself, it still didn't have the 
 feel and effect of a "fictional" shooter...
  
  Then came Bioshock. 
  
  The game's graphics are absolutely stunning. Those of you who have played the game and have not 
 liked Arcadia are either insane or robots. The locations and sound effects make for an entirely 
 eerie game which created the kind of environment that only Diablo successfully did. The missions 
 are thankfully not all the running-errands type. 
  
  The weapon selection of the game is very innovative and fitting to it's setting... given the nature 
 of your predicament, the game features a wide variety of experimental items that you can use as 
 weapons. The use of pistols and assault rifles of the old days helps immerse you even more.
  
  If you are not impressed by the weapons or the environment, the antagonist certainly will. 
 Featuring some of the most impressive and realistic voice acting since Dungeon Siege (okay, bad 
 example) , Andrew Ryan and Atlas will help not only with the progressing game, but also in twisting 
 your mind in all sorts of possibilities.
  
  The game does have two possible endings which are influenced by your actions in the game, the good 
 part is that these decisions not only effect the ending, but also the attitude of other units in 
 the game.
  
  All in all, every small aspect of Bioshock make the game even more appealing and character-driven 
 with every passing second. If you are a fan of the FPS genre, Bioshock is a must have for you. 
 Trust me, you will not regret buying this game...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatbigmouth
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  BioShock is one of those games that many gamers, including myself, awaited anxiously to play. However, 
 all that waiting didn't pay off even to the least bit. 
  
  The intro is quite pathetic. You suddenly appear in an ocean with flames surrounding you, as you 
 struggle to find the building in the poorly lit area. 
  
  Killing of Zombie-like creatures is what this game is about, nothing else. Sure, they included 
 some things like Rapture, etc to spice up the storyline a bit. However, I wasn't impressed. When 
 you compare this game to other games of 2007, it's a complete failure. 
  
  It gets boring after ten minutes, since all you do is hit people with wrenches, and shoot the heck 
 out of them to survive. Again, a lot of killing and a lot of blood. No good story to this game. 
 
  
  The Secure Rom DVD protection is very annoying. Don't even think about backing up your original 
 disc in case you lose yours. You can only install BioShock with the ORIGINAL disc, which means 
 that your backup is rendered worthless. 
  
  The Graphics aren't THAT good, yet the game still demands rather high System Requirements. 
  
 
  Overall, BioShock was a complete disappointment. This is a mindless game for mindless people. If 
 you like swinging a steel pipe at creatures for hours and hours at a time, then go ahead and knock 
 yourself out. I, however, wasn't knocked out by this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpaticoman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 1:52 am PT
Review:  The very first time I saw Rapture I inmediately fall in love with it. With the idea, with its decorative 
 art dec, with its arquitechture, ...
  Probably in this world there is something left. Not the storyline, not the big daddies, not the 
 little sisters. Probably you are not gonna agree with this but in my opinion, and I DO LOVE THIS 
 GAME, splicers suck. They are repetitive, and to give them their due you only have to follow some 
 simple mechanics. Kill one. Get its corpse by telequinesis and throw it to the other enemies. You 
 can kill them in other ways but this is probably the safest. And it gets boring after a while.
 
  Despite the combat mechanics, Rapture is a great world to be discovered. Probably this is the 
 very first time I dont feel the bad whenever I got lost. What the hell! I even tried to get lost 
 from time to time for the sake of being able to discover new rooms and new places leaving aside 
 the main story for hours.
  Water and fluids. You won't believe what your eyes are witnessing. Believe me, you won't. They 
 all look so real. Best water I have ever seen. Blood on the floors look sometimes too realistic. 
 And, above all, ice. Reflections, the ice "sweating" You can feel even the cold from its very perception.
 
  Go ahead and try something new. Celebrate Rapture's decadent nature. For not many people are brave 
 enough to create something like it. Well done 2K Games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason210
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  The thing that strikes me most about this game is the art direction. A lot of research must have 
 gone into 1930s Art Deco, which is the visual style of this game. It's everywhere, from the buildings 
 and signs to small details like the content of posters, taps in the toilets and small object you 
 find like crisp packets and cigarette packets. Everything has been lovingly and authentically recreated 
 from the era and comes together as an design experience, which is perfectly complimented by a tasteful 
 selection of soundtracks from the 40s and 50s epitomised Bobby Darin's "Beyond the Sea" (aka. La 
 Mer) .
  
  The old music constrasts starkly with the dystopian state of the society and half-ruined locations 
 - they remind me of how similar music was used in the movie "The Shining", to generate a haunting 
 feeling. In Bioshock the music is in 3D, which means it has a source, and we often hear it echoing 
 along the corridors from some from some distant room, an experience which generates an eerie atmosphere.". 
 
  
  Sound effects are also well implemented. As we wander thorugh Rapture, we hear footsteps, muffled 
 voices and other inexplicable sounds close by...
  
  Lighting and shadows are technically spot on, but go one step further in that they are also used 
 to further increase the atmosphere and suspense of the game, such as when we see the shadow of 
 something waiting for us round a corner...
  
  "Water, water, everywhere. And not a drop to drink". Well, the underwater city is leaking and flooding, 
 and you won't see better water effects in any other game - I promise. It's quite amazing. I read 
 somewhere that the developers hired a programmer just to work on the water effects. He did an excellent 
 job and set a new standard for these kind of effects in computer games.
  
  If you've read other reviews, you will hear a lot about narrative. For me the unfolding story of 
 the game, which you get to know by finding tape recorders strategically place around each level, 
 puts a nice frame around the FPS experience, making it more like an interactive movie. In this 
 sense it reminds me of that most excellent game of a few years ago "Mafia". However, like Mafia, 
 it is an FPS. And although we have a wide range of weapons and abilities to find & master, plus 
 a few puzzles to solve, the bones of the gameplay is to shoot your way through each level through 
 waves of enemies. Personally, I get a bit bored with this, and this game could have offer something 
 slightly different.
  
  Oddly, like "Mafia" of a few years ago, there is no multiplayer, which is a shame since it has 
 a nice physics engine that allows you to toss objects and bodies around. Multiplayer would have 
 ensured its longevity, especially if the enviroments were destructable. It would also have been 
 great to play with a map editor!!!
  
  Like "Mafia", when "BioShock" is over, you'll feel a bit of a come down, like you might feel if 
 you've been to see a really good film at the cinema. And then you'll find yourself wishing you 
 hadn't played it, so that you could play it all over again for the first time!!
  
  Definitely a significant game in the history of PC games, and deserves a place in the Hall of Fame.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4mek
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  When I play a game I like for the game to have a good story line. It is the kind of story line 
 like Max Payne along with music like in No One Lives Forever only from the late 1940s. If you enjoy 
 those late 1940's short about what the future will be like then you will enjoy Bioshock. 
  
  The game has two types of weapons the conventional ones like a pistol and shotgun and then 
 genetic weapons called plasmids that range from electroshock, freeze, and incinerate to name a 
 few. When you are low on conventional ammo the plasmids make a great sub and then there is the 
 great combo action.
  
  The game has a wonderful twist in the middle as you start the game there is a goal toward a big 
 boss only when you reach him do you find that the game in not over it has just begun.
  
  Throughout the game you encounter the "Little Sisters" as they are called protected by formidable 
 creatures call "Big Daddies". Once you take the Big Daddies down you have the choice to be good 
 and save the Little Sister or be evil and Harvest her power. Like other reviews have said you choice 
 doesn't affect the course of the game. However it does effect what kind of assistance you receive 
 in the game and which clip scenes you see. I played the on the side of good and the final clip 
 scene made an old softy like me cry like the movie old yeller.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jerrythefunguy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  After all the crap I been through... 
  I can finally play Bioshock with Direct X 10 with everything high and now the sound works fine 
 since I made it Windows XP compatible (the only freaking tweak) but it sounds a bit scratchy in 
 some cases.
  
  Movin on I bought this game in October with my Sony Laptop to test it out since its a really good 
 game and didnt have an Xbox 360 at that time since I was waiting for the new 360s with HDMI to 
 come in, anyways let me just skip all the crap that it crashes on me when I tried loading the first 
 level with Direct x 10 mode and then had to run the game in Direct x 9 which finally allowed me 
 to play the game untill I reach to Font Fallic what ever stage is called and crashed on me with 
 Medium setting set. Lets Fast Foward 3 months later untill now and with my Video driver finally 
 updated and allowed me to play the game... then No sound... lets Rewind from yesterday when I fix 
 it. I Finally was able to play the game were I was left off... Phew..
  
  Okay so I finish the game and I been bad boy since i was piss about my whole game not working and 
 just Harvest the hell out the little girls and I can tell you I was really disappointed with the 
 ending and hell I dont really feel like going through this game agian since it still feels reapetive 
 for me. I can see the good ending in Youtube and it still pretty disappointing to me since the 
 intro was pretty spectacular. I can say the last boss fight was pretty awesome but a bit to easy 
 to me but then agian I played more epic games with bosses then this game uh hmm.. (cough) God of 
 War (COUGH) .
  
  All the tapes do tell the story and its very intresting to tell the story but then agian fighting 
 and tring to hear the tapes didnt blend well.
  
  Any ways it just made the game bump up to 10 points if only the ending was more longer and intresting 
 to me and hell I said ill re write it and I did so this my score
  
  Graphics 10/10 very beautiful Underworld which has an awesome way of presenting the 1950's
  
 
  Sound 9/10 has some good tunes from the 1950s and its the best feature for this game
  
  Gameplay 8/10 since its hard to change weapons on the fly but the powers with adam makes it up 
 and the upgrades are pretty good
  
  Replay Value 5/10 I cant see myself replaying the game when its finished and I did tried my best 
 to upgrade everything but its just hard to focus when its the same splicers coming at you over 
 and over agian
  
  OVERALL 8.5
  just wish the ending was as spectacular as the beginning but hell it was a deep journey under the 
 sea till the end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helldancer
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Who EVER thought mixing RPG with FPS was a good idea?!!! Now its everywhere.
  
  As a hardcore fps fan, I was brutally hurt by STALKER after all the wait. I found out its Elder 
 Scroll: Oblivion FPS style. Then came BioShock, well it was a shock alright. MANA in an FPS? what 
 is happening?.
  
  The scores and the hype you're seeing here are -what I believe to be- the result of the "ZOMG GRAPHICS" 
 generation.
  
  I tried the demo, not much to review here. I was planning on some serious FPS action, then .... 
 oh wait ... fire and lightning spells? oh here's a bunch of enemies lets kick some ass, oops sorry 
 not enough mana (?!) . Then after you finish the demo, the trailer in the end emphasizes on how 
 much fun it is to ..... guess what? .... LAY TRAPS.
  
  This is a review intended to Traditional/Old School fps fans, avoid this like the plaque. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  What's to like:
  - Great atmosphere
  - Good story
  - Very artistic and highly detailed graphics
  - Wide range of enjoyable ways to get rid of your 
 enemies
  - Great sound
  
  What you may not like:
  - Flaky audio support
  - Low enemy diversity
  - Low polycount on characters (some are just plain ugly)
  - Weak Endings
 
  - Scary clowns!
  
  It took me quite a while before I could actually start playing the game mostly because I wasn't 
 getting any sound after the introduction movie.
  
  Fortunately, after many tweaks and official game patches, I was finally able to get sound through 
 my headphones (never got it to work with my normal speakers though) . 
  
  
  Story - A twisted adventure
  
  Your goal through the game will be to get to know who you are, 
 where you are from and more importantly, what has happened to the underwater city, Rapture.
  
  You will gather most of that information through Audio Tapes that are scattered around the 
 city. Listening to a tape doesn't keep you from advancing or fighting.
  
  Though it might start off a bit slow, the story will unravel itself quite nicely especially near 
 the latter half of the game.
  
  
  Game - It's all about Adam and Eve
  
  You can see ADAM as something you want to get in order to "buy" upgrades and powers. Eve is the 
 mana that allows you to use the skills and powers that you have acquired.
  
  So where do you get this "Adam"? Along the way, you will meet "little sisters". Each little sister 
 has a guardian referred to as a "big daddy". They will protect a little sister from any enemy, 
 whether it's you or any other mobs. A big daddy, alone, won't bother you unless you bother him 
 first.
  
  Once the big daddy is taken care of, you will be offered a choice: rescue or harvest the little 
 sister.
  
  Harvesting will grant you more ADAM than rescuing them. Though, in the long run, rescuing little 
 sisters will grant you almost as much ADAM (they give gifts sometimes that compensate the gap) .
 
  
  So it is entirely up to you to decide what should the fate of the little sisters be. Know though, 
 that your choices will influence the story.
  
  
  Weapons - Tough choices
  You can sneak, shoot, burn, freeze, manipulate, electrify and hack turrets depending on the skills 
 your purchased with your ADAM. Know that you can also avoid from using any of those skills and 
 use the more standard weaponry like the good ol' shotgun.
  
  All the weapons in this game are satisfying. Headshots count too. You can use the environment and 
 the level design to get rid of your enemies. Someone could, if he really wanted to, go through 
 the entire game without shooting a single bullet.
  
  
  
  Enemies - Know their weaknesses
  
  Eventually you will be given a camera, use it to improve 
 your effectiveness against them and doing so will also reveal their weakness to a particular type 
 of ammunition or weapon.
  
  The AI is ok, not too smart, but not too stupid either. They can kill you very quickly if you don't 
 respect them though.
  
  
  Conclusion - Great game overall
  
  The involving story and its unique setting makes it stand out from the typical PC Games out there.
 
  
  
  It deserves a solid 8.8/10
  
  Edit: Fixed some typos and some missing info.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong, this is a good game. the story is immersive, the characters are cool, and andrew 
 ryan is the **** but, with all that, there definitely are some bad points. the hacking minigame 
 gets old quick, and the ending is crap. the boss is easy to beat, and the ending felt extremely 
 corny, and thats why its not a 10. the graphics are awesome, and the gameplay is innovative with 
 plasmids and stuff. all in all i would recommend this game, but the ending is flat out bad, and 
 really unfulfilling,. i dont think i am going to play it again, but i have heard that some people 
 want to play it again just to see how the"good ending" will play out. its not worth it. if you 
 want to see the other 2 endings, then just go onto youtube and watch them. the good ending is the 
 best though. Fun game, bad endgame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pot-noodle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Its a strange thing, you hear all this hype about a game, then when you finally play it, you wonder 
 what all the fuss was about.
  
  Granted that bioshock has some good points, there are just not enough to keep you entertained for 
 long, after much consideration, i have been trying to figure out why so many people have given 
 it 10 or even 9, when in truth it deserves a 7 or 8.
  
  Storyline.
  
  Set in the 1960's with a art deco style of the 1920's (although this didn't appeal to me) i have 
 to say it did look good.
  
  You start off in a aircraft, that then proceeds to crash into the sea, after your character surfaces 
 with in the burning wreckage, you swim towards a light house, and then processed inside, its a 
 bit confusing to start with, as you don't know why your aircraft crashes and you don't really know 
 whats going on. 
  
  After a quick little run around, you end up in rapture and start a conversation with someone over 
 a radio and it basically starts from there, this guy wants you to rescue his wife and child, while 
 he proceeds to tell you things about the place that you have had the misfortune of ending up in, 
 before long your off on a mission. Its during this time that you are introduced to EVE, a substance 
 that you inject into your arm to give you access to special abilities in the form of plasmids (think 
 of it as mana) . its also in this first section that you encounter a Big daddy, and a little sister.
 
  
  Big daddy's are Large bi pedal entities that protect the little sisters, they are hard to fight 
 because they can take a lot of damage whist moving very fast for their size and deal large amounts 
 of damage in the process. Little sisters on the other hand are little girls who have been genetically 
 modified, they go around collecting ADAM from dead bodies, and later on, you get the option to 
 harvest ADAM from the little girls in two different ways, depending on what way you chose depends 
 what out come you get, Harvesting the little sisters for all the ADAM they have, kills them, but 
 you get a better ADAM harvest, and saving the little sisters, means you get less ADAM but save 
 the girl and return her to normal plus get a bonus along the way.
  
  ADAM is a substance that you use to buy extra Plasmids (abilities) while EVE is the substance you 
 use to power your Plasmids.
  
  A lot of attention has gone into the story, its just a pity that its delivery couldn't of been 
 a bit better, don't get me wrong, the intro into the deep depths of Rapture are very good, and 
 you get a little taste of what the city once had to offer it denizens, But having to run around 
 and pick up recording machines to hear the rest of the story is a real set back from the opening 
 intro.
  
  Graphics.
  
  Graphically it looks good, it has all the usual stuff you find in a game now days, bump mapping, 
 environment mapping, HDR, Shadows, dynamic lighting, and yes the water does look good. Turn the 
 settings down, and you have a toned down version, No shadows, no dynamic lighting and no HDR (HDR 
 gets used to much and the game looks better with out it)
  
  Then you get the weapons , i really don't know what the game makers were thinking when they made 
 the weapons, they seem disproportionate to the player so tent to look awkward. But i feel this 
 is because the game is geared more towards you using plasmids where the animations are better and 
 the graphics more fluid
  
  Sound.
  
  Well, environmentally it sounds good. you hear the enemy's in the distance mumbling to them selves 
 or talking to people that are not there. Weapon sounds are good for what they are, but sometimes 
 didn't play (Tommy gun sound even on patch 1.1 well for me anyway) 
  
  The voice acting was good, yet the lack of people to interact with to get the story line made it 
 so sometimes you missed what it was about and feel disconnected to it. 
  
  The music in the game is typical of the period its set in and comes and goes depending on where 
 you are in the levels
  
  Gameplay
  
  This is the bit that lets it down, with 5 splicer variants 2 big daddy variants and a few "bosses" 
 thrown into the mix, it gets boring and fast, most enemies tend to run at you once you have been 
 spotted with just a few who either runway or hold their ground, none seem to use cover or work 
 as a unit to flush you out which is very disappointing (although this is not a military FPS, it 
 still would of been nice to fight things with a bit of self preservation) . Also the combat just 
 isn't challenging enough for PC gamers, and it shows that its been released on a console for use 
 with a controller,
  
  When fighting its a simple case of, you either do enough damage or you don't, if you start doing 
 less damage, you can acquire upgrades at a later stage to boost it later. and with lack of a decent 
 punishment system for when you die, you don't have to worry about health until you really need 
 it, which for me was a real let down.
  
  Ammo and cash is dotted around the place, and if you want to save more funds you can hack ammo 
 and supply vendors to purchase more ammo if needed.
  
  Hacking is done via a mini game, where you have to channel a liquid from one point on a grid to 
 another by clicking on blocks to reveal pipe sections, then moving the sections by a simple drag 
 and drop interface until the path is complete, its a nice distraction from the main game, but again, 
 gets boring quick. 
  
  Plasmids are the genetic side of game play, they come in all different styles ranging from, fire 
 to ice, and telekinesis to electric shock, you also get some funky ones like, make daddy your daddy, 
 where you can throw a small ball on a daddy, and he then protects you like your a little sister.
 
  
  Plasmids, like all the other upgrades you can get for your character are based on a slot system. 
 you start off with 2 slots per skill set, and at intervals during the game, you can either upgrade 
 the slots, or rearrange your skills. but you will find that once you find a set that work well, 
 you really wont want to be using some of the others, unless its to progress further into the game.
 
  
  BioShock is good if you want a mindless corridor killing game for 15 hours
  And it really doesn't take much brain power to play. you can stray off the beaten path, but it 
 always leads you back onto it to progress to the next objective, usually with the help of a onscreen 
 GPS arrow and the use of a map if you think your really lost.
  
  Personally, if they had added more enemies, a tougher death system this would be a really good 
 game deserving of a 9 or 10, but as it is, its a repetitive and sometimes boring experience and 
 feels somewhat lackluster even with its good environmental graphics.
  
  On the Xbox 360 i can see this doing much better than the PC, 
  
  IF your a PC gamer Bioshock 
 will disappoint, its OK at its basic entertainment level, but with the sea of FPS already available 
 for the PC, this is one game you should definitely try before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deralict
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Did you play System Shock? Eh? What if, instead of being in orbit the story occurs under the sea. 
 And instead of being tech heavy it is set in an alternate universe where biology has created awesome 
 powers and creepy changes to the world.
  
  The story is rich with moral choices and dramatic twists. 
  
  The music is inspired and adds 
 considerably to the enjoyment of the game.
  
  In case you don't already know, this is a first person role-playing game, just like it's inspiration, 
 the original System Shock. Combat is important and exciting, but equally so is exploration story 
 and character development. Bravo for the balance.
  
  Graphics. Art. Top-of-the- line. Honestly I don't need graphic pow, but this game is so stunning 
 that I would stop, stare, and call out, "Hey - check *this* out!"
  
  My only quibble is that the story, though deep and rich, doesn't really lend itself to repeat play. 
 Still, I got my dollar worth and more.
  
  Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfsebastianII
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  There's been a lot written about Bioshock by now, so I'll just stick to the main pros and cons:
 
  
  Pros:
  
  - The unique world of Rapture, with its art deco feel, has you looking around you in wonder for 
 much of the game
  - There is a strong enough story to hold the interest throughout
  - Although the game is fundamentally linear, there's still plenty of scope to explore each map 
 in your own way. You can even choose to revisit past maps at certain stages of the game as you 
 travel around
  - Once you start to build up plasmids, the ways of combating each enemy increase
  - If played 
 on 'Hard', and don't use the vita-chambers (ie reload your last save every time you die instead) 
 the game can give you maybe 25-30 hours or more game play, which is reasonable
  
  Cons:
  - Most people who are critical felt let-down in terms of the game's RPG elements, which were hyped 
 pre-release but are only there to a limited extent in the game itself
  - By no means uniquely, the main enemies and even things like the vending machines don't vary enough, 
 thus reducing the world's 'believability'
  - The fighting can be fierce, but often the fights are short-lived
  - The final battle, if you're 
 frugal with your resources up to that point, is too easily won
  
  Overall though it's a great game, which is definitely worth playing, and contrary to what many 
 have said, I'd play it again as there's more than one way to play and different tactics to adopt 
  playing a second time, knowing the story, will give you more freedom to experiment and explore 
 a bit more than I ended up doing the first time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: muscleserge
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  Bioshock had timing on its side, it came out in August, and was the first big title of the second 
 half of th eyer, just after the summer drought. So what happened? It got rave reviews, I remember 
 hearing all the 10s and 9s and perfect scores it recieved. So I went out and bought it. Boy was 
 I disappointed.
  The game had NO rpg elements in it, their was no inventory menu, I felt like I was playing my Xbox360 
 with a KB&M. The game was simplified to death. I feel that STALKER an 8.5 game here is a much better 
 game than Bioshock. Now the graphics are great, so is the sound and presentation, but it didn't 
 feel unique, and perfect the way it was hyped.
  
  Basically it is a good game, and if you can find a copy for about $30 than buy it, otherwise I 
 wouldn't recommend it. Also if you played System Shock 2, you'll find some very striking resemblances. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zorombi7a
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  it's more strategic than a shooter game while you playing u can adjust the way of playing you can 
 choose the right way to play according with your abilities ......... you can picks up what you need 
 to accomplish your mission not need to do eveything in the game or to go everyware........... you 
 could make your own decisions to reach your target you can choose the way to kill your enemy the 
 way to keep your self alive thats realy amazing so this game makes u think more than play cuz the 
 somehow it's difficult needs moor than a good shooter thats if u are not a good shooter .................
 
  and about the story it's predictable but the representation of the story was amazing and the most 
 important thing in this game makes u wants to discover more and more about raptures world  
 is aawsome , colors are magically also the game is not too heavey !!!!....... the designers of 
 the game are so smarts and they have a brilliant imagination
  and a littlebit crazy!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  thats all fox 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  After STALKER, BIOSHOCK was a total come home by the weeping cross... great disappointment. I started 
 to play this game with my smile on my face but after only 1hour my smile become a simper-smile. 
 Don't believe my eyes what i trying to play... not a game, not a shooter, not a RPG ... something 
 i don't want to think and say... just violence and killing bootless.
  
  For big scores only few things...
  
  -many bugs when start the game
  -in the game progresses 
 only fun-action is to kill some zombie (pathetic)
  -you are in Rapture but you don't know were you come and go, just kill and run (again, pathetic)
 
  -game-play is very repetitive with antic storyline
  -graphics are not bad but art direction is bad ( the blood look like cartoons, pictured... i don't 
 want to see that into a game)
  -securom copy protection
  -no dx10 on vista
  -to more fatuous violence
  -boring zombies
  
  This game is UNINSPIRED, broken, a disaster, 
 TOTAL DISAPPOITMENT, it's only a joke and nobody laugh... nor even zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2005wrxsti
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I've seen a couple reviews complaining about the requirements to play. That's like complaining 
 about an amuzement park ride because you're not tall enough to ride it. Do yourself a favor, go 
 grab a quad core, an 8800gtx, 4gig of 4-4-4-12 mem, over clock them bad boys and you're all set. 
 If you can't afford that, buy an XBOX 360 and don't be a party pooper.
  
  Ok, onto reviewing the game. There are some bug issues with the game no doubt, it crashes on rare 
 occasions, and sometimes resets the key bindings but that has little to no effect on my gameplay, 
 and I just chalk that up to a very innovative action game. Am I going to give it a perfect 10 rating 
 or a 9.5, no... because it doesn't have the polish or refinement that a perfect 10 game would have. 
 Note that I also get some graphic anamolies (sp?) , but I think that's because I was running it 
 for 5 hours straight and my card over heated.
  
  I've only played it for a day so far, and I can tell you that the enemies are pretty much the same 
 looking throughout the first few levels, but the situations you have to fight them in are usually 
 quite different. Thus each gameplay situation has it's own feel to it, and different strategic 
 challenges to overcome. I'm not usually an action FPS gamer, I really didn't care for Oblivion 
 (RPG elements) , or Morrowind, Stalker etc. but this game is full of eye candy, and great background 
 story etc. This is what most of us gamers are looking for, a good damn story, something that draws 
 us in and compels us to keep playing.
  
  Is it the best game or story I've ever seen? No... that's left for the greats like FF7, Half Life 
 1, System Shock etc. but it's definately good so far, and interesting little side stories that 
 pull you in. Only thing that would be better would be a few more cut scenes between characters 
 in the game. Best buy that I've made in quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syliss
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  Bioshock gathered a huge cult following before its release. I had played the system shocks for 
 the pc and even though I did not join the cult, I had high expectations for this game. I do not 
 believe Bioshock met all of my expectations, but it sure came close.
  
  I am going to dispense with the bad quickly. The Big Daddy battles, as intense as they are, are 
 extremely unbalanced. There are moments where I will hold all the cards, through robots at them, 
 light them on fire, and not even take a shot of damage from them. Yet, there are moments where 
 I need to re-spawn three to four times before I can put them down. The rifle that some of the Big 
 Daddies are equipped with is simply too powerful, and the Big Daddies seem to have near perfect 
 aim with it. The second problem is re-spawning. Re-spawning is a welcome addition to the continuous 
 checkpoints, but there are occasional times where you spawn into a firefight and just die again. 
 The other obvious issue is the lack of any multi-player functionality. Even a basic deathmatch 
 or coop mode would have been awesome. unfortunately, neither mode is to be found.
  
  To be honest, I am not big on multi-player, provided the story and gameplay is deep. Bioshock is 
 easily the deepest FPS game I have played in a very long time and the gameplay is structured so 
 well that frustration is almost non-existent. The story is slightly predictable, but the multiple 
 endings adds a great sense of what your in-game actions do to your character. The tonic boosted 
 baddies you play talk and walk and breath creepy. There never seems to be an end to the pleasure 
 of knocking one with the wrench or freezing one and breaking them into tiny bits. Along these same 
 lines, the tonics (powers) you receive throughout the game are very cool (including the free downloadable 
 ones) and the environment allows you to use them appropriately. I hate games that give you these 
 cool abilities for a couple minutes on the last level. Bioshock does it right by giving you access 
 to everything by around 3/4 the way through and giving the player to buy new ones, or upgrade tonics 
 that you already love.
  
  Bioshock is in my top 3 action releases for the 360 (along with Oblivion and Gears of War) and 
 probably one of the most memorable gaming experiences I have in awhile. Bioshock reminds all gamers 
 exactly what we should strive for in a single-player experience and hopefully other developers 
 will take note. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_ozz
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  One word to describe BIOSHOCK would be OUTSTANDING. Yes this game in not as great as SYSTEM SHOCK 
 2 but it sure is one of the greatest games to have released in the last 5 years. The game has no 
 multiplayer, the devellopers put that extra effort to make a great single player game and they 
 have succeed to a great extent.
  
  The game has a pretty unusual setting and the graphics are top notch. Bioshock has an engaging 
 story going for it which will pull u through the game. The music and voice acting is also great. 
 The music compliments the story well and there is never a dull moment. The gameplay is well not 
 superb but its good. Gameplay includes FPS as well as a fair bit of RPG stuffs which keeps things 
 fresh. One more interesting thing is that there is no death penalty in BIOSHOCK. This keeps things 
 easy. If there was a death penalty then killing the BIG DADDY would be one hell of a task.
  
  In addition to the normal guns u also get some spl powers at your finger tips. They include 
 fire, ice, bees, electricity and many more. These spl powers keeps combat real fun.
  
  Well once u finish the game u get hmmm mothing.. there is no replay value
  and this is one problem 
 with BIOSHOCK. Otherwise its an outstanding game with gorgeous graphics and interesting gameplay 
 mechnics..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorrath
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review ever, but having 12 years of experience in games i will try my best to 
 give a good view of the game without spoiling it. Also because i am Greek plz accept me any grammar 
 or spelling mistake.
  
  Graphics: The game is made with the Unreal 3 engine (Gears of War and of course Unreal Tournament 
 3 is also made from the same engine) , so the graphics are really good and the artistic design is 
 just superb, playing the game many times i was spotted little details that some might say that 
 are unnecessary but they are indeed blending with the atmosphere. 
  
  Sound: Sound as mention in Gamespot and other Internet game sites is very well done. Because is 
 blending with the whole atmosphere and all the individual sounds/speech from the enemies are very 
 well made and they give to most of the enemies personality. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is like another shooter but having some special abilities it can change 
 the way of just shooting at the enemy and start using the environment and other nice tricks ( like 
 hacking security systems) that can make you think many times how are you going to counter the enemies. 
 The enemies aren't the smartest ones but they adapt a bit to your attacks and if u attack all the 
 time with a particular way be sure that they are going to change tactics. Overall the gameplay is 
 very satisfying because of the choices that u have all the time in the battles.
  
  Story: One of the BEST that i have played for many many years so far.
  
  Now some might say 
 that it doesn't have multiplayer but trust me this game is big and you are going to spend lot's 
 of hours in front of it. If you have doubts of buying or not because of this issue then i can say 
 that leave you doubts away because for me this game has enter the very short list of games that 
 are just brilliant games (mostly because of an overall image and story) like Starcraft and American 
 McGee's Alice.
  
  Also a small warning this game has a lot of violence and scary moments, its a very dark game/ world, 
 where twisted things have happened. SO be very responsible when playing such kind of games and 
 enjoy them because of the factors mentioned above and not just to show off in school or to your 
 friends. In other words be a responsible, rational and a sensible gamer, those kind of gamers earn 
 respect of others :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-bone214
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is a fantastic game. The graphics are amazing; from the rotting corpses to water, they 
 are amazing. This game is just scary enough to make you jump a little, but not to give you nightmares. 
 This game also has a great story, which can be hard in the game industry sometimes. From owning 
 zombies with plasmids to blowing there heads off with shotguns, its hard not to get something out 
 of this game. The only complaint is that there is some sound problems in the game and when you 
 die there is almost no penalty. IF you have an Xbox 360 or a PC this is a game that you wont want 
 to miss out on. YAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
 AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAY AYAYAYAYA 
 AYAYAYAYAYAYA AYAYAYAYYAAYAYAY AYAYAYAYAYAYAY AYAYAYAYAYAYA AYYAYAYAYAYA AYAYYAYAYAYAYA AYYAYAYA 
 AYAYAYAYYAYA AYAYAYAY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spat69
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  its a bit scary and some people say one of the two endings are bad but thats IT this game is so 
 fun it doesnt need a multiplayer. its got a story like an oscar winning movie and the game play 
 is alot of fun. i love the weapons even if there is only 8 the plasmids keep you entertained with 
 fire ice electricity telekenesis and even bugs. its got a long story and its pretty hard to tell 
 wtf youre going but if you pay attention and spend some time youll do fine if you dont try and 
 rush through it. there is also the option of slaughtering everything and everyone or pay attention 
 and watch the little freaky mutants do there thing. now there are a couple things i dont like, 
 you cant just whip a grenade you have to switch to youre grenade launcher which is a bit weak but 
 it is made of cans of soup so they have an excuse, but also the weapon upgrades are a really good 
 idea but they dont really dont do enough. but except for that its good and it also makes a difference 
 in the end if youre good or bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luieburger
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  The Bad:
  
  I didn't care about the characters. I didn't really feel like I had any purpose and from the beginning 
 of the game I wasn't drawn in. I just felt like I was there and bad guys were trying to kill me. 
 The only motivation to go anywhere was the little arrow that pointed me in the right direction.
 
  
  Too easy. I turned off vita chambers (respawn points) just so I could do the traditional PC "die 
 and reload" type gameplay. I'm glad I did, this game was way too easy. I wouldn't have felt challenged 
 if I hadn't had to worry about dying. I should have played it on hard too but I guess that will 
 have to wait until next time. The final Boss was also way too easy. I guess they designed the game 
 for consolers who can't aim with their thumb stick controllers.
  
  Hacking... lame puzzles that don't do anything for gameplay except make the game take longer. If 
 I wanted to play pipe dream I would have downloaded the flash version. I don't buy an FPS to play 
 pipe dream. I think next time I will go through the whole game without hacking anything (and hard, 
 and no vita chambers) .
  
  The Good:
  
  Great art, great style, AWESOME SOUND! Graphics are great and the artistic style of the game was 
 a lot of fun. The sound is awesome, big daddies thumping around sounds great on my 5.1 and on my 
 gaming headphones.
  
  Great weapon design. I wasn't all to interested in plasmids but they are integral to the game. 
 However, weapons and weapon mods and different types of ammunition make this a blast. I love weapon 
 customization and the paths you can choose. Lots of fun.
  
  It's just fun? What more can I say really. It was a good gaming experience and was well worth the 
 holiday discount price on Steam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_horny
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  Bioshock (PC) ...
  
  First of all, I challenge you to find another first person shooter with such iconic and immersive 
 production values. Those infamous Big Daddies, all diving suits and enormous drill bits for hands, 
 stomping about flooded art-deco corridors with glass ceilings exposing the ocean overhead. Water 
 cascades down walls resplendent with memorabilia suggesting a place that's seen better times, whilst 
 gramophones crackle out famous tunes of the period to give the place a disturbingly real world 
 edge. Cinema doesn't get THIS cinematic. 
  
  And it's mostly thanks to an elaborate back story, revealed in audio logs and journals littered 
 amongst this densely enriched game-space that will have collect-o-maniacs sucking up everything 
 there is to find and poke and prod. I have not spent this much time staring at the floor in a game, 
 nor the ceiling should a Spider Slicer scuttle along and jump down to attack me from behind.
  
  You're probably aware of the setup by now, but for the benefit of review conciseness here goes: 
 An arrogant toff called Andrew Ryan gets sick of paying his taxes so builds his own underwater 
 utopia. He invites the cleverest, fittest and most elite people he knows to live there, free from 
 the shackles of governments that penalise and hamper their dreams and ambitions. At some point 
 a discovery is made which uncovers a means of genetically altering DNA to the point of Xmen-style 
 mutation (Adam) and this soon becomes the currency within Rapture. Everyone wants it and eventually 
 Civil War breaks out. In it's aftermath, you arrive...
  
  In terms of variety of denizens, Bioshock plays with a slim deck, but anything more would seem 
 quite absurd within the constraints of it's setup. Everything, down to the fact that those wee 
 little sisters are impervious to physical harm has a water (sorry) tight and/or plot based reason 
 for being there, though I will admit the introduction of plasmids and your first injection of eve 
 could have been better handled than a simple on screen 'Inject' prompt. It doesn't ruin the game 
 at all, but for such a story-led game it just seems a bit at odds with everything else.
  
  Anyway, the populace. Enemies come in several different flavours of 'Splicer', the term used to 
 describe the act of using Adam to genetically modify one's self - so in many ways, you play a splicer 
 yourself, but again I digress. You can usually hear a splicer chattering away to themselves before 
 you make out their shadow against the flickering light, or jump off your chair when they appear 
 right in front of you from round a corner brandishing a wrench and screaming "I'm trying to control 
 myself!" or "Ruuuuun!" or just screaming, for that matter. They wear different masks, some are 
 male, some... used to be female? Those that don't carry wrenches have guns, or throw bombs at you 
 and leg it. Some are double-hard, others go down quickly if you're using the right ammo-type. Set 
 them on fire and they'll throw themselves in water. Elecrify the water and they'll try to get away. 
 Fill them full of lead and they'll peg it for a med station. Hack the med station and they'll unwittingly 
 fry themselves. Spider Splicers run along the ceiling and throw circular knives at you. Some may 
 complain that they tend to repopulate the environment, but then if you can use the respawning vita 
 chambers that negate the need for a quicksave/load function, then why can't they?
  
  So the enemy quota is lean, but the AI is evolved enough to allow for some amazing firefights. 
 Combined with optional (though strongly advised) Big Daddy battles, and levels that feel more like 
 locations than corridors, it would seem that 2K have finally bridged the gap between FPS and sandbox 
 adventure to some extent. It also means there's no loading, something that seems to have been largely 
 overlooked and taken for granted by everyone. The other point of contention concerns the implementation 
 of 'vita chambers' and the 'lack of death/war of attrition' factors they bring to the table. It's 
 a debate that could go on forever and a day: people moan about quicksaves, so you do away with 
 them. People then use a manual savegame option instead. Disuade them from saving with a respawn 
 feature and the game becomes too easy. In Bioshock's case, it would seem the respawning combined 
 with a very generous default difficulty level has led to the game becoming something of a cakewalk. 
 Me? When I was offered the option of 'Hard difficulty - have played A LOT of First Person Shooters' 
 I listened to the game's advice. You still can't die in hard mode, but it's enough of a challenge 
 to appreciate the satisfyingly meaty encounters provided by the top notch enemy AI. 
  
  It's hard to talk about any one aspect of Bioshock without completely veering off at a tangent. 
 Hell, I haven't even described any of the Plasmids yet. Anyway, Big Daddies. These big golems were 
 created to protect the Little Sisters who harvest the Adam required to buy and upgrade new plasmids 
 and tonics (I so need to talk about these soon) . Go anywhere near a Little Sister and the Big Daddy 
 guarding them will make an unholy racket and maybe even give you a bit of a shove. Attack a Big 
 Daddy and you have to commit to taking it down, pegging it or dying (i. e. respawning at a nearby 
 resurrection chamber) . Big Daddies are quite tough. They're also surprisingly fast. You need to 
 have a ton of the correct Ammo and/or a plan. It's also usually quite helpful if the area is fairly 
 empty of enemy splicers, because you'll quite often find yourself navigating the length of an entire 
 level to take down just one of these things. At least until you're properly tooled up towards the 
 end of the game. It's in these encounters where clever use of your surroundings and ALL of your 
 abilities unlock the true heart of the game. It's all about the Adam and Eve see...
  
  As well as it's plentiful selection of ordnance (the whole spectrum from pea-shooter, thru rocket 
 launcher and flame-thrower, with three ammo types for each makes it possible to play the game almost 
 exclusively with conventional weapons) Bioshock's biggest spin on the genre is it's inclusion of 
 Plasmids, which basically amount to a selectable bank of 'magic spells' powered by an 'eve' gauge 
 which needs to be maintained via the application of hypos, similar to your health bar. Plasmids 
 come in many forms, from your common or garden incinerate power, to your 'Half-Life 2 inspired' 
 telekinesis and more unique 'hypnotise big-daddy', 'security-bullseye' and 'enrage' varieties. 
 Tonics, also funded by Adam yet not so reliant on Eve are passive abilities which increase resistances 
 and help out with things like hacking and melee damage. Plasmids and Tonics are more numerous than 
 the number of slots you have, even after buying all the extra slots available, so the RPG aspect 
 really comes in when you decide which suite of abilities you want to load out with. Personally, 
 I favoured the environmental opportunities afforded by hacking turrets and security cameras, and 
 sure enough, the game allows you to tweak yourself in this way. 
  
  Research and Invention are perhaps two less well executed aspects of the game. At a scripted point 
 in the game you're given a camera, and snapping away at foes from close range when they're about 
 to cause you considerable harm is the name of the game when it comes to increasing your research 
 score. Increasing your research score nets you damage bonuses against certain types of enemy as 
 well as extra bonus plasmids and tonics later down the line. The other (maybe an after-thought) 
 minor aspect of the game involves the collection of useless items which can be exchanged at 'U-Invent' 
 stations for proper stuff like anti-personnel ammo or grenades. Gameplay mechanisms such as these 
 don't especially invorgate the core gameplay dynamic, but they don't mar it either. They may seem 
 superficial time-sinks at first, but when used in combination with combat and hacking, they further 
 enrich those types of gameplay respectively. If they weren't there they wouldn't be missed, but 
 their inclusion adds to the immersion and customisaton of the game's real bread and butter: combat.
 
  
  Some might find the lack of multiplayer unforgiveable, but appealing as a big daddy hunt co-op 
 mode might sound, there are a million more dedicated multiplayer games that do it better. Some 
 have complained that it's split PC/Xbox 360 development has compromised it's execution as a PC 
 specific title. Rubbish I say. There's no auto aim in the PC version and it supports Direct X 10 
 - though you'll need a fairly hefty PC to play the game at a comparable visual/audio quality to 
 it's console counterpart. 
  
  2K have taken a game from concept, through showcasing and promotion and served up pretty much everything 
 they promised. People expecting another System Shock game may complain about the omissions of a 
 proper inventory system and the streamlining of item creation and upgrading pales in contrast to 
 the complexity offered by more conventional RPGs, but Bioshock isn't an RPG. It's just a very clever 
 First Person Shooter that everyone - and their mother - should play. The fact that it's charms 
 seem to have captured the world by storm can only be a good thing, though potential sequels are 
 gonna have a damn tough act to follow.
  
  -James Ovi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peregrine1160
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  i loved the game. the plasmids were fun and creative. it was also cool to know if u were out of 
 ammo u still had your plasmids to do some damage. thinking about what plasmid would be best (or 
 if u used a different plasmid because you just wanted to use that plasmid) to kill your enemies. 
 blast electrical currents into water while splicers are in the water, burst them into flames when 
 they are near explosive barrels or when they are in oil, burst a swarm of hornets that will sting 
 ur enemies to death and u take no damage what so ever, or fling them into the air. that is what 
 makes bioshock entertaining. enemies can just jump out at you from behind, or when u walk by a 
 closet and they burst out of it screaming. it certainly made me jump a few times. the big daddys 
 were a fun 2 kill enemy. ecpecially with plasmids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I finally got around to finishing System Shock 2 a couple months back because I heard about how 
 great BioShock was, and I wanted to finish SS2 before playing BioShock so I went into BioShock 
 with System Shock 2 still fresh in my mind. Was BioShock a worthy spiritual successor to System 
 Shock 2? Yes, but that may be because it was the same game with a different skin.
  
  In BioShock you assume the role of Jack, just Jack, from God to Kane to Jack- wait, wrong game. 
 Uh, anyway after a very brief monologue (which happens to be the only time in the game "Jack" says 
 a word) the plane he is on crashes conveniently right next to a lighthouse. Inside of the lighthouse 
 Jack finds a bathysphere that takes him down to Rapture, an underwater "utopia" that has been thrown 
 into chaos, and your only lifeline is a mysterious Irishman named Atlas.
  
  BioShock is praised for its story and atmosphere. I will agree that BioShock has a great atmosphere, 
 the underwater city concept is very original compared to other RPGs and shooters out on the market 
 and the game features some very interesting locales, events, and characters that only help improve 
 the immersion. Unfortunately, while the atmosphere is superb, the story left me with a sense of 
 Deja Vu. Why? Because it was System Shock 2's story with a new skin. I can't say much without spoiling 
 the story for those who have yet to play it, but if you've played System Shock 2 all the way through 
 then you'll be very disappointed with BioShock's rehash of the plot. BioShock does contain a little 
 bit of philosophy in its narrative, but it's mostly an anarchist theme, and doesn't have a strong 
 presence so gamers who have played Planescape: Torment will likely be underwhelmed by what is there.
 
  
  BioShock does contain an interesting story element not found in any shape or form in System Shock 
 2, the Little Sisters. The Little Sisters are little girls who are possessed by a slug and wander 
 around rapture gathering Adam from dead splicers. Essentially you're supposed to either rescue 
 all of them (the good path) , or harvest their adam and kill them (the evil path) . To do either 
 you first have to eliminate their guardian Big Daddies. This is supposed to add some emotion to 
 BioShock's dreary atmosphere, and it does to a degree, but some players will likely find the "kill 
 the big daddy and rescue\harvest the little sister" side quest to get stale after a little while 
 since you have to do it so much.
  
  BioShock, despite being labeled as a First Person Shooter\RPG is dumbed down so much when compared 
 to System Shock 2 that you might as well label it as just a FPS. Essentially it's a run and gun 
 game where you can also use a "magic" system referred to as Plasmids by altering your genes, and 
 to do this you need Adam. There are also certain tonics you can get that give you some bonuses 
 such as improved wrench damage, and tougher skin, but there is no Strength, Agility, and other 
 such base stats to be found in BioShock which is disappointing.
  
  One big issue I have with the gameplay is the lack of variety. Every enemy in the game is either 
 a Big Daddy, or a variant of a Splicer. Where are those creatures from BioShock's initial screenshots? 
 Heck, where are the interesting enemies period? Fighting splicer after splicer gets old after a 
 while, and the only time you can mix it up is if you encounter a Big Daddy protecting a Little 
 Sister. System Shock 2 had a wide variety of unique opponents, so BioShock's lack of this is a 
 major letdown. Hacking returns in BioShock, but it's a fairly tedious mini-game and I usually didn't 
 bother hacking unless I had an auto-hack tool. Destroying security cameras and turrets seemed more 
 efficient since you have generally killed all of the enemies in the area by the time you actually 
 had the option of destroying\hacking said devices.
  
  Visually BioShock is nice to look at since it uses the third generation Unreal engine. The hyped 
 water effects are very good even without DirectX 10, and the textures and enemies are finely detailed. 
 The audio is pretty exceptional as well, superb voice acting is present throughout the entire game 
 and the environments have some very impressive background effects. The music in BioShock is a combination 
 of an atmospheric score, and licensed American music from the 40s.
  
  BioShock is a great game, but it plays a lot like a dumbed down System Shock 2, and the story is 
 far too familiar for my liking. Still, if you're looking to get immersed in a unique setting then 
 BioShock is a good choice, and despite the unoriginal plot it's still entertaining to follow even 
 if you've played System Shock 2 through umpteen times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tipperary_man
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  Bioshock creates an amazing, immersive world. However, the game is too easy, even on the hardest 
 difficulty settings, due to no-consequence re-spawn after death and almost limitless ammo and money 
 lying around.
  
  The gameplay itself is not nearly as deep or varied as the developers want you to believe. the 
 weapons are bland, and nothing new. The powers you pick up are, again, for the most part bland. 
 Lightning or fire from your finger tips is just another weapon, and, again, nothing new.
  
  The most damning, for me, though, is the lack of depth in the character development (or RPG) element. 
 It's probably not fair to judge the game against my expectations, but I was hoping for so much 
 more - System Shock for the next gen. I wonder how much of the gameplay was "dumbed down" for the 
 console market?
  
  It's not a bad game, its just not a great game. (It is a great world to explore, the game side 
 lets it down too much) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  Rapture awaits, people! Bioshock is here for quite some time but i didn't have the chance to play 
 it immediatly when it came out cause i still had my old PC. But now i upgraded, so i am able tto 
 play it :D I finished the game, it's wonderful, no simple words can describe it, it's simply amazing 
 how it combines story telling with gameplay. Basically, you'll have these diaries that you can 
 find around and listen to, kinda like in Doom 3 with the PDAs, plus some in-game ghost-like flashbacks 
 of dead people that lived in Rapture, so you can experience the story without having to interrupt 
 the game with cutscenes like most games do. Also the graphics are amazing, it may not be realistic 
 as Crysis, but the water, lighting, shadowing and fire effects in this game are fantastic!!! The 
 thing with managing plasmyds and kinda leveling up is very RPG-styled, but it fits great and is 
 interesting even if you hate RPGs like I do in most cases :D 
  
  In the end... Do you like good graphical effects, well-told stories, good gameplay that requires 
 a little thinking too? If the answer is yes, then go buy this game, it's a must-have :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrmime777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are awesome. I run a dual core Pentium D CPU with an old x1600 and 2g of ram, which 
 ran it at a respectable framerate on medium / low settings. The developers really got the water 
 effects down more than anything else, which was worth it considering the water's everywhere! There 
 are very creative sort of retro 50's style models for everything, and the character designs are 
 quite detailed and well done.
  
  The gameplay is not bad, and can be described as the only thing that might potentially turn people 
 off to playing it. There are some pretty cool weapons and abilities, but some weapons compared 
 to abilities are inferior in the later parts of the game, much like earlier tiers of abilities 
 themselves. But the abilities (plasmids) must have taken some thought, and seem to make up for 
 the disappointing fact that your favorite weapon may only be terribly useful for the first few 
 levels. Plasmids are traits you inject right into your bloodstream; combat plasmids you can use 
 in combat as weapons, while you can choose your strengths and weaknesses with passive plasmids, 
 much like in any RPG.
  
  And now, the indescribable something. Bioshock takes all the elements of their game and makes them 
 work together better than any that I've ever played before. The immersive and complex story is 
 at the heart of everything, commanding what you do, how you got there, who you kill, and what is 
 on the recorded diaries that pop up regularly. These diaries will dictate the majority of the story 
 to you, so listen if you want to know Rapture's history. The music commands your mood, and generally 
 makes everything eerie and depressing because that's all that Rapture is: a city that has gone 
 down the tubes and has its own ravenous ambition to thank. The voice acting is spectacular, with 
 characters actually making you believe that they're thinking what they're thinking. There are a 
 few nice twists in the story, which keep it interesting. All these little things come together 
 to form one big thing. I call this the indescribable something, the inexplicable knack the developers 
 had to make everything work together seamlessly and to immerse you in the story so that you fritter 
 away hours of time before you know it!
  
  All that said, go out and buy a copy of Bioshock now if you already haven't! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornbredx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Its become a new cornerstone in the gaming industry to get you involved in the game world your 
 playing. Nothing satisfies Game Devs more then if you actually care. This is not always the case 
 of course, but the good ones know this is a great way to satisfy your customers and keep them coming 
 back for more.
  
  Graphics: I cannot say enough about the graphics in this game. While in some small ways not as 
 vibrant as others games out today (such as as assasins creed) it really hits home and sets the 
 tone of the game perfectly. This game set a standard in my opinoin with the way they did the layout, 
 so finely crafted in such a way that all rooms and maps as a whole have a purpose and that purpose 
 is to draw you into a world like you've never seen before. I am at a bit of a disadvantage, I feel, 
 when reviewing this game. The retro feel is one I have always loved in spooky games but never seen 
 it done on a scale such as this which made me in awe of it all the way through. The attention to 
 detail in this game is also something to note as everything, seriously everything, has a purpose 
 for being where it is and you will always find some reason why things are the way they are. The 
 graphics in this, in that respect are perfect and I cannot hail it enough as just amazing because 
 when I play a game I'm not impressed by how good the graphics are, but rather how well they were 
 used to set the tone of a game and make it suck you in (as the sound and graphics should be doing) . 
 This game does that and never stops.
  
  Sounds/Music: Oh, I cannot say enough about this either but sadly there is some small nit picks 
 I feel I have to make here. I dont know if it is the port that caused this or what (I know many 
 issues sprung from the port of this game, but patches have fixed a VAST majority and I have had 
 no problem in playing this) . First the bad. When getting hit massively (over and over and getting 
 blurred vision from getting shot so much) your sound doesnt wane or go dull as if your losing hearing, 
 instead it stutters in and out for no apparent reason. Gameplay isnt halted, and no graphical stuttering 
 have I had, but the sound just, for some reason, cannot seem to handle the amount of input its 
 getting. This may be an issue with my sound card (which would be odd but not unheard of) but do 
 feel its worth mentioning. However these moments of sound itchyness do not occur very often and 
 I do have to re-iterrate I am nit picking (on purpose) because this game is so good I personally 
 had to fight to find reason to say this game isnt perfect (havent had this much fun with a game 
 since Half-Life 2 and FEAR) . Anyway, the Ambience is always on cue, and the music backs it up supremely 
 with great performances of old songs (sometimes sung by the bad guys such as Jesus Loves me this 
 I know... I'm agnostic but remember this song from my child hood and they made it creepy) and some 
 original scoring by Gary Schyman. The score is incredible in this game, and if your like me may 
 never notice it because it feels like a part of this world. Its sad, gloomy and wreaks of an uptight, 
 overzealous, but ultimately lost civilization in dire need of a hero. I have to also disagree strongly 
 with Gamespot here, I thought the sound effects (such as gunfire and explosions) are surperb in 
 this. Everything feels right always, and while you do hear some repetitive statements by bad guys 
 (splicers and such) you never feel bored by it because theres alot of things you'll hear them say 
 and they will more often then not be causing you trouble while taunting you which makes you alot 
 less likely to even realize that theyre repeating themselves at times. Trust me this is not a downside, 
 it's something I dont think I can explain quite well in words you just have to play.
  
  Innovation: This game didnt really innovate the combat idea that it has subscribed to. However, 
 it did use it perfectly. I remember the first time I used this type of combat system was the game 
 Undying and felt that it was a little more complicated in that (mostly because of the keybinding 
 control scheme in that) . This game actually merely perfected the idea of switching between (for 
 lack of a better word) "spells" and traditional combat. In this, game spells are called Plasmids 
 which are upgraded by Adam and uses up Eve (instead of Mana) . The concept is not new but used very 
 well in this and there is so many combonations you can decide to use it only adds to the replayability 
 because if your like me you may want to see what kind of templates you can build (for instance 
 it is comepletely possible to play this game and make a fire/ice mage like build... I know im getting 
 fantastical and the game doesnt subscribe to this fantastical ideal at all but I'm explaining as 
 best as I can) . However, while it didnt innovate the spell/traditional combat ideal it did innovate 
 the design of story driven gaming. You will quite often be faced with moral dilemmas in the form 
 of little girls (or as the game affectionately calls, little sisters) . You will quickly find out 
 their worth and why it's so hard to make your choice in the first place as a "Big Daddy" protects 
 them. These can be one of two different types but always presents a challenge and when playing 
 you will see that they themselves even present a small moral dilemma. They really have no interest 
 in you while you explore and are the only things that wont attack you on site. Instead they merely 
 bodyguard the little sister while they have them (and will kill you if you come to close) , and 
 it kinda makes you feel sad that you have to kill them to make your choice of what to do with the 
 little sister because they're not a threat, really theyre just doing their job as mindless as it 
 may be. It's really engaging and I could go on about it but I wont. Anyway, this on top of the 
 fabolous story really drives the game home and if you get bored with this game your probably only 
 playing games for some sort of anger management as the combat in this game is slow and mindless. 
 It doesnt often make sense why things get stronger to your attacks but in retrospect the game gives 
 you so many ways to increase your damage and add more damage going forward that I cant argue that 
 the Bad Guys have to adapt to it or the game would become a one shot wonder fest fairly quick and 
 I personally think the system used is just fine.
  
  Combat: As said, nothing special to it. People have said the AI is dumb and I have to agree there. 
 There is some logic to it, however, if you follow the story and if your really paying attention 
 to whats going on why they attack like they do will make sense. Unlike Gamespot seems to suggest, 
 however, Splicers dont always (although more often then not they do) run at you midlessly, spider 
 slicers for instance love to play a game of cat and mouse as they attack you then run to climb 
 up a wall and drive you nuts trying to find them until they show up again. This is only one example 
 and I wanted to say that I disagree with gamespot, there is some instances where it wont seem as 
 dumb as it first acts. I dont want to give you the wrong impression though, the combat is never 
 one of tactics and intelligent strategy. This game went old school with the combat concept but 
 it works great. I love it because this attack style fits the story perfectly and only playing can 
 help you understand better then that.
  
  Story: The story is compelling, has several different endings, scary, sad, and overall a hell of 
 a ride. I cant say enough of how great the story in this game is and how much I loved being a part 
 of it. I'll say no more, i dont spoil things and this game can be spoiled big time but its a story 
 driven game, and the story is perfect.
  
  Difficulty: Another thing going around I wanted to touch on. This game is not easy unless you play 
 on easy difficulty. Big Daddys do not go down without a fight on normal and without splattering 
 you on Hard. Easy is the only mode where things die with ease and you barely take a scratch. Anyone 
 who says this game is easy is a liar and they merely want to troll, do not believe them. There 
 is strategy as well in this game but it has nothing to do with combat, More-so if your smart combat 
 will be even easier. Not because the game is easy but rather because you placed your plasmids in 
 such a way that you have a good plasmid build going for you. This game presents a challenge. As 
 for the rebirthing in the vita chamber making it a joke (Gamespot even said this and they should 
 be slapped) it does not. Point to a game these days that doesnt let you save. Point to a game these 
 days (especially on PC) that doesnt let you quicksave during a fight. There is very very few without 
 these and the vita chamber (for me) merely makes so it so the last thing I feel I need to do is 
 quicksave. Its like they thought about things and said "you know what, theyre going to be quicksaving 
 here anyway so why make them break gameplay just let them revive at certain 'checkpoint' type structures." 
 Thats exactly how it feels, and to me does not make the game any easier. Your bullets are still 
 wasted, even though the creature you were fighting still has the same health it did (or can have 
 this as they can heal themselves under certain conditions) your wasted bullets and Health Kits 
 are still wasted, they're gone. So anyone saying that this makes the game easier. It doesnt, you 
 still need to scrounge for more money to buy back the ammo wasted, and health lost. Not only that 
 but you dont revive with full health. I totally disagree that it makes the game easier and feel 
 it merely helps to keep you in the game without having to look at a save screen because your scared 
 your going to die.
  
  Variety of Monsters: Gamespot and others have said this too. I have to disagree to a point here. 
 It has been said this game has the same 5 characters you fight over and over throughout the game 
 (im paraphrasing) . This is such a lie its pathetic and another reason Gamespot should be slapped. 
 First off the only way they are correct is that yes, there is only 9 (i believe) different combat 
 types of bad guys in this game. Thug (melee) , Spider (blades melee and wall climbing) , Leadhead 
 (Weapons) , Nitro (Explosives) , Houdini (Spells as well as speed and invisibility) , Turrets (machine 
 guns, can be hacked) , Cameras (send hoverbots after you while your discovered by them, can be hacked 
 as well as the robots they send after you) , Rosie (a big daddy that uses ammunition to kil you) , 
 Bouncer (A big daddy that uses melee to splatter you) as well as the many other interactions in 
 this game with various characters that still live here and want to speak with you, or have you 
 do something for them or whatever (the story driving actors of the game opposite your character) . 
 The rediculous idea that there is not enough variety in bad guys in this game is absurd. More often 
 then not while there is only so many TYPES they rarely ever look the same from level to level. 
 Just for instance, in the level where you go into a medical lab, the bad guys are all like doctors 
 and patients. In a level where you first enter they're like random people just doing their thing... 
 being crazy. I have never noticed them looking the same from level to level, and they have always 
 fit the area they were in. There's tons of variety in this, nuff said.
  
  Puzzles: Theres actually very few puzzles in this game and they mainly have to do with hacking. 
 Problem with these puzzles is after awhile to make things difficult I guess it adds things to block 
 routes. This is supposed to be random (it seems) but strangely alot of times these blockers will 
 comepletely block your way and you have to fail. Maybe I missed something but I find that irritating 
 and often makes me auto hack as it annoyed me greatly. Thats about it though as far as frustration 
 goes and odds are good I do stuff wrong in those puzzles (I am smart but not the smartest so I 
 do miss stuff sometimes haha) .
  
  Overall "Gameplay"/Fun Factor: Well as fun factor goes this game rocks. I cant say how much fun 
 this game is to play. With its great controls, to its superb sound and graphics everything is fun 
 in this game, except hacking which doesnt detract from anything but is tedious and often boring. 
 You may end up finding yourself using the autohack rather then deal with it. I always try to give 
 it a couple goes when its frustrating me then if all else fails I auto hack (which is limited by 
 how many you find/make) . The gameplay is intuitive, creative, and I felt a few omages to its predecessors 
 (Half-life and FEAR) and feel this one is worthy of taking a spot on the hill next to these great 
 achievements in story driven FPS' and only hope more games strive to be as amazing as this. They 
 need to stop worrying about money these days and start worrying about how good their game is again, 
 this game did that and thats why it is hands down... the game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samedizombie
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  This is truly an amazing game and a breath of fresh air. However, I am close to the end of it and 
 to be honest I am struggling with the will to continue as I don't particularly like the way the 
 game has ended up.
  
  For me it's been a tad too long and a tad too repetitive in some places and I'm heading for what 
 I'm sure will be a 'Beat The Boss' final level.
  
  The problem is that I have no particular inclination to continue or any desire to reach the end. 
 this is mainly because I find I'm getting a bit cheesed off with games resorting to the near impossible 
 to beat final bad guy.
  
  The same thing happened to me with PREY, i got to the end to find yet another ream of bosses to 
 kill and I just lost interest, I've still not completed it and doubt I will.
  
  CRYSIS was totally different with a brilliant, well thoughout ending.
  
  BIOSHOCK is still 
 an essential purchase, just be prepared for the usual ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dib9394
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  Bioshock got me interested from it's trailer. Got it last christmas on 2007. And I had to say, 
 it's a well-done masterpiece. The gameplay has RPG elements with all those exhilarating exploration 
 of the atmospheric world of Rapture, picking up all those weapons, E. V. E. and food and drugs (which 
 basically increase your health or your Plasmid level) . It also has some fun puzzles and a minigame 
 (involving pipes) to have fun with. The atmosphere of Bioshock is amazing and a true feel to the 
 20th century along with those shadow effects to keep it very creepy. The plasmids select a variety 
 of fun to the game such as telekinesis (like Half-Life 2's gravity gun) , ice, hornets, fire and 
 more. The story is very interesting that you have to solve the mystery yourself with all those 
 diaries and characters explaining it to you. Weapon upgrading is now something original to gaming 
 history, allowing you to upgrade your gun with more powerful handling with enemies. The game can 
 have technical issues all around the game. Now, time to talk about the Big Daddy (not Rosie) . He's 
 a very awesome sub-boss of how he impales those guys with his drill and how he roams the halls 
 of Rapture with those Little Sisters. The Little Sisters, on the other hand, are cute but a little 
 ugly. I mostly rescued them, because it feels of actually killing a child (if you harvest them) . 
 So Bioshock is atmospheric, shocking, creepy and an underwater masterpiece, sadly along with it's 
 technical issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homeyc
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  This game has been touted as the much anticipated successor to System Shock 2. While both are great 
 games, incorporating features such as weapons upgrades, research abilities, health improvements, 
 etc., the similarities end there. Bioshock is a revolutionary game unto itself without compare. 
 To say that it is the successor to System Shock 2 would be akin to saying that cell phones were 
 the successor to morse code. Bioshock is simply a far superior game in all aspects.
  
  Controls: This game uses the standard key set that you would expect of any first person shooter 
 game. In addition, there are a few extra keys that perform specific functions but again they very 
 intuitive. As such, I was able to start playing immediately without much of a tutorial.
  
  Learning Curve: I must admit, that initially the game posed some confusing concepts to me. For 
 instance, the concept of plasmids was not inherently clear but once I had caught onto the idea, 
 the rest of the game went quite smoothly. I would say that a new player could become comfortable 
 playing within fifteen minutes of starting.
  
  Storyline: This is where the game truly shines. The story is impeccably crafted and contains twists 
 that though aren't completely unsuspecting, are clever enough that one is left grinning. Complemented 
 with special effects and fantastic sounds, this game had me sitting on the edge of my seat for 
 hours. Just when I thought I had seen it all, the developers were able to insert another twist 
 that left me breathless.
  
  Difficulty: I have only played the game on easy (and never died) . I imagine that the two higher 
 levels present a comfortable challenge to more advanced gamers. I will say that one shortfall of 
 this game is that it gets progressively easier as you develop your arsenal of weapons and plasmids. 
 As such, the most difficult part of the game is at the beginning and even then, you have so many 
 health kits that one is never really in danger of having to use the resuscitation chambers. There 
 are a good assortment of enemies but again, they only get easier to defeat as the game goes on. 
 Somewhere towards the end, the writers attempted to make them more difficult to defeat but I never 
 found that I was ever below half a bar in health.
  
  Other Comments: The aspect of the game that draws me in most is that you have so many different 
 components to upgrade. Thus, different players can complete the game in completely different fashions. 
 Where one player may choose to use solely weapons to shoot down enemies, other players may decide 
 to use plasmids instead. Even within the individual classifications, there is a wealth of choice. 
 The weapons, albeit standard, offer a good variety. They have even thrown in a variety of ammunition 
 for good measure.
  
  Summary: If you are a fan of first person shooters but aren't interested in simply mindlessly shooting 
 your way through the game, check out Bioshock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irutehe
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  PC Ver.
  The game starts OK but then you get lost in a repeating maze, going back and forth through levels. 
 Graphics are so and so, music is bad, sounds are OK. 
  Story isn't something you look forward to unfold. I got bored very soon. 
  I think there were 
 some constrains being a ported game and all and sometimes the control is clunky. 
  I think genre is more a survival-horror than a FPS, let alone Sci-Fi.
  Bottom line, I tried to 
 finish the game only because Bioware was behind it but I only got to 75% or so. Then I left the 
 game to rot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suliman-Uchia
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock, without a doubt, is one of the video game events of the year. A first person shooter 
 that is more than just a first person shooter. Not only is this game fun, but the storyline is 
 thought-provoking and philosophical. This is more than just a game. This an interactive storybook 
 of epic proportions.
  
  After being the only survivor of a plane crash in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean, your only chance 
 of survival is to seek refuge in the nearby lighthouse. The moment you step inside you're greeted 
 by a banner which states: "No Gods or Kings. Only Man." Going further into the lighthouse you're 
 soon taken to the underwater city of Rapture. A place where religion and morality do not rule the 
 decisions of mankind. Where every man does what he chooses for his own selfish gain. The city is 
 run by a man named Andrew Ryan. When you arrive in the city, however, its quite clear that Andrew 
 Ryan's perfect world wasn't so perfect. The city lies in ruins and chaos runs rampant as a form 
 of genetically mutated people called splicers roam the streets. With the help of a man named Atlas 
 who guides you through the twisted city of Rapture, you'll have to survive long enough to get out.
 
  
  Throughout your adventure there are plenty of things you can do to advance the story. You'll find 
 radio diaries that give hints to the downfall of Rapture. You'll meet people who will tell you 
 things about Rapture. Some of these things, such as the radio diaries, are optional, but if you 
 don't listen to radio diaries you'll not only miss out on some of the complex and absorbing storyline, 
 but you'll also miss out on some of the game's better features. The voice acting contained within 
 each radio diary is fantastic. You'll learn not only about Rapture, but Andrew Ryan and other characters 
 who play a major role in the story. There are other things that move the story along as well, like 
 running into ghosts who will give you more insight. Some of the mutated denizens give you hints 
 (before you have to do away with them) . There's a lot to piece together here. If story and character 
 development are your thing: Bioshock delivers.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, Bioshock is a game that presents some complex things, but it's easy to 
 play overall. Splicers are the most common types of enemies encountered in Rapture. You'll need 
 an arsenal of weapons to take them on. As you progress through the game you'll have splicers that 
 simply attack melee style, others that shoot at you and even some that throw explosives. When you 
 first begin you only have access to a wrench. But along the way you'll pick additional weapons 
 like a pistol, shotgun, machine gun and a few others that you can use to decimate your enemies 
 with.
  
  Despite how difficult things might be, Bioshock doesn't penalize you much should you die. If the 
 worst should happen you'll respawn from a Vita Chamber (basically a checkpoint) with some health 
 and everything you had at the time of your death. The enemy also keeps the same amount of health 
 lost. So even if you die over and over again, you'll eventually be able to kill whatever it is 
 that's giving you trouble. Despite the challenge of the game, the simple fact that you can't die 
 permanently does take away some of the challenge.
  
  The enemy AI is also pretty good. While they never stop attacking once they've found you, they 
 do act the way you expect them to. If they're firing at you and suddenly run out of ammo, they'll 
 run away from you to reload. If they hear your footsteps, they'll investigate. Your adversaries 
 are no dummies in this game.
  
  There are also machines like gun turrets and security cameras around. You can keep out of the way 
 of security cameras easily, but sometimes turrets can be a pain. However, despite how tough gun 
 turrets and rocket launchers can be, the game allows you to short circuit them and hack them. Hacking 
 is a little mini-game in which you must lead a fluid through a series of pipes to the exit. Most 
 of the hacking mini-games aren't hard. Successfully hacking a gun turret or rocket launcher turns 
 them on your enemies.
  
  There's more to Bioshock than simply killing your enemy, though. You'll also want to search the 
 dead bodies of those you kill. Usually enemies carry ammo, money, first aid kits, EVE Hypos and 
 some will even drop weapons. You can also search more than dead bodies. You can search any containers 
 scattered throughout the game. Trashcans, cabinets, virtually anything that sits idly by. Sometimes 
 you'll find money, ammo etc.
  
  Aside from searching corpses and containers you can also pilfer any food or drinks that are lying 
 around. Food often restores health, while drinks will restore health yet take away a bit of EVE. 
 Most of the drinks you come across are alcoholic drinks, and if you drink too much alcohol it will 
 register and your vision will actually be impaired and you'll start to stumble around.
  
  In addition to all that searching, there are also vending machines scattered throughout the game 
 where you can buy healing items, drinks, ammo and more. It'll cost you money. Like some of the 
 machines you'll encounter, you can also hack into a vending machine, and you'll want to do so. 
 Doing so lowers the prices on the items and makes more available.
  
  As you go through the game you'll also come across Plasmids. Plasmids give you powers. At first 
 all you get is electricity, but later on you'll be able to command fire or even use telekinesis. 
 There are several plasmids in the game, with their own little benefits. Electricity, for example, 
 will let you activate switches and short circuit machines. You cannot use Plasmids limitlessly, 
 though. Plasmids consume EVE and once you run out of EVE, you can't use Plasmids.
  
  In addition to Plasmids you'll also find tonics which grant you everlasting effects so long as 
 you have it equipped. There are tonics which improve your physical attributes, engineering skills 
 to make hacking easier, and your combat abilities.
  
  Throughout the game you're also given chances to upgrade your weapons. You can also shoot off stronger 
 ammo as you get further, and at some point you'll have to. Some enemies are immune to standard 
 shots but can easily be taken down with armor piercing rounds.
  
  The game doesn't just put most of these things there for your benefit, but actually expects you 
 to use them effectively. For example, if there are a bunch of enemies standing in water, you're 
 encouraged to electrocute the water. If there's an oil spill you're encouraged to set it on fire. 
 You can put together lots of great strategies when it comes to your Plasmids and Weapons. Even 
 better is that you can switch between them on the fly. Your plasmids occupy your left hand and 
 your weapons occupy your right. You can't use them both at the same time but the game allows you 
 to switch between them rapidly enough to the point where it doesn't matter.
  
  Finally, the game allows you to invent and construct items for you to use a long the way. You'll 
 need to find components to invent items, though, and that's easily done through searching all those 
 basic containers.
  
  As far as the game looks it is by far one of the most detailed and beautiful games out there. Everything 
 about the game is given a fantastic look to it. From what your enemies look like to the vast city 
 itself. The walls are detailed, the water is detailed all the flames and vending machines are detailed. 
 Even better, the physics and other mechanics in this game work divinely. For example, if you bump 
 into a trashcan, it falls over. If you're stepping over something, you'll find yourself walking 
 a bit slower and stumbling over it.
  
  There are few differences between the PC and XBOX360 versions. The controls in the PC version are 
 much easier to grasp and switching between plasmids and weapons is also much simpler. The game 
 also runs slightly better on the PC than it does the 360. Some reviewers have noted that the PC 
 version is a pain to install and some people just haven't been able to run it. As of writing this 
 review, I've only suffered one crash and haven't suffered any other major problems.
  
  Bioshock is a stunning game. The long wait was well worth it. Tight controls, lots of variety in 
 the gameplay and an absorbing storyline is what keeps this game afloat and makes it fun. It is 
 without a doubt one of the best games of 2007.
  
  The Good
  
  +Enticing storyline full of philosophy and intrigue
  +Fantastic voice acting brings the already 
 fantastic story to life
  +Lots of variety in the gameplay
  +Great sound effects
  +Great music score
  +All around beautiful game
  +The atmosphere of the game never settles
 
  
  The Bad
  
  -While it's nice that you don't get penalized or ever have to reload when you die, it brings down 
 the difficulty of this game a bit. However, as I said, it's a good and bad thing
  
  - Also the game can get boring in many parts 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danceeagle
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 6, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Interesting concept and some curious unique aspects. But execution was boring and frustrating. 
 Didn't give me much satisfaction and just kept waiting for it to end. Many areas are simi copies 
 of other areas and music and nasty ciomments are annoying. I'm not even sure this is a skill game 
 but almost a roll playing remember the details type game. I'm sending it to my son-in-law. I hope 
 he likes it better than I.
  
  One curious things is when you get "killed" you come back with all your achievments in place. So 
 why bother having to run back over the same area over and over? Your ammo and your enemy's ammo 
 are hard to use and often very ineffective. If the sound track doesn't drive you nuts after a while 
 you are better younger more forgiving soul than I. 
  
  Any a big PASS from me on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: core5
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 5, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I liked Bioshock because it's a "good" game. It's original in it's storyline, graphics, and user 
 interface. I was really impressed with how the developers used the unreal engine. The game feels 
 really natural. For example you could use the telekinesis power to fling stuff at bad guys when 
 you run out of shot gun ammo and are backed into a corner. It's probably just as good as the half-life 
 2 engine with regards to physics, although there are differences.
  
  Graphics are top notch. Nothings is cutting edge (that I could tell) , but there's nothing wrong 
 with it. I played on a DX9c video card, so I expect that DX10 is really where the game stands out 
 and shows the developers' new tricks.
  
  Sound is good. Nothing to complain about here either. EAX 4.0 is an option in the sound menu, but 
 I don't have that since I'm using a Shuttle PC and a double-wide video card with no room for a 
 sound card. Even with onboard sound, the game sounds great with the software 3D capability.
  
  Gameplay in Bioshock is really unique compared with other first person shooters that I've played. 
 Most FPS games might give you a silencer option, nightvision, scopes, and maybe some sort of power-up 
 on occation. Bioshock allows you to store you power-ups or personal enhancements, called Plasmids 
 in the game, and redeploy them during the game as you see fit. They never expire, but you have 
 to get to an EVE station to reconfigure them. You have limited slots to equip the Plasmids, so 
 you're not invulnerable. Instead you have enough slots to configure your loadout so that it compliments 
 the way YOU intend to play the game.
  
  Plasmids can also be used as weapons in the game, but I found those to be more of a last resort, 
 you can only use each attack plasmid five or six times then you have to reload (re-inject yourself) 
 with EVE, and by that time the crazy nurse is beating you over the head with a tire iron. In most 
 cases the basic firearms make more sense to use.
  
  The storyline in Bioshock wasn't that ground breaking, in my opinion. There was a cool plot twist 
 about 2/3 of the way through the game, and it was really creative, but that was about all that impressed 
 me. After reading through some of the reviews, some players seemed to have gotten more out of the 
 storyline than I did. I may have missed something, but I don't really want to play it all again 
 just yet.
  
  The game world of Bioshock reminded me of The Great Gatsby meets Resident Evil all underwater. 
 It was a cool idea, but I just couldn't get into it. The whole time I was playing I kept getting 
 reminded of the arcade game CarnEvil where you shoot your way through a twisted, bloody, mess of 
 a state fair ground. It's weird, to say the least, and original, but I didn't find myself being 
 too involved in the world around me. There's a lever here and a button there, but other than that, 
 there's not much to remind you that you're under the ocean in an underwater habitat. Games like 
 Doom 3 and STALKER had elements of in the world that you were forced to deal with: i. e. the radiation 
 zones in STALKER and the airless environment outside the cramped station in Doom 3. Bioshock feels 
 like your shooting around in a big hotel that's been trashed. And even though it's underwater, 
 you can't shoot out a window and flood the chamber and kill everything in it. You also never get 
 to go out into the water. I mean, come on!
  
  The AI in Bioshock is a little strange. The charcters a little hard to hit, not because they're 
 smart and nimble, but because they move and behave like spider monkeys on cocaine. They're all 
 over the place and they use a mix of hiding, charging and ranged attacks that makes the game more 
 than a shooting gallery. It also gets really interesting when you encounter more than one enemy 
 with different attacks: ranged + melee for example. Enemies will also fight to the death if they 
 shoot or whack each other, but that's a little less common.
  
  Overall I'm giving the game a 7.0/10 because it's a good solid game and it doesn't crash every 
 10 minutes like a lot of good PC games that have come out recently *coughSTALKER, WitcherCough* 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LXRUBI1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Great Game. Im almost done playing the story i hope. And man, the storty is amazing. The graphics 
 are great to, this is the best game ive played up to date. Hopfully there will be a part 2 but 
 i dont know yet i still need to beat the game first. The characters are really detailed and the 
 game comes together overall. If your a fan of condemend then you'll love this game. I was impressed 
 right off the start of the game and i dident think of this game to be scary but a big suprise when 
 i was playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcardone05
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  To start off, i have not played the entire game. I've played through a few levels, and I could 
 not get into the game. The gameplay is a bit over the top, with a few interesting control options 
 by the developers. Sometimes the game was difficult to understand. Admittedly, I was looking forward 
 to this game after watching several reviews and heard great things about it personally. So I forced 
 myself to play a few more times. Yet after giving it a second and third chance, the game did not 
 compel me to play more, such as World In Conflict or Half-Life had in the past. Typically, that's 
 where a multiplayer mode would step in. But there is none. The gameplay was decent, but in the 
 end, nothing really compelled me to play this over a round of Counter-Strike or World in Conflict. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hebri
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 10- allmost in all the other FPS games, you fight with weapons (guns) . In thsi game you 
 have weapons and plasmids and every weapn has its upgrades and differenet kind of bullets. The 
 variety of fighting methods and hacking techniques makes this game more enjoyable than any other 
 game.
  
  Graphics 9.5- the environments here are simply stunning, from explosions, light effects and water 
 effects. Put it on hight quality and you'll experience one of the creepiest experiences ever.
 
  
  Sound 9.5- makes you aware that every step you walk, someone is coming for you. Voice acting is 
 one of the best, making the story more interesting.
  
  Value 9.5- lengthy gameplay makes this game more than worth your money.
  
  Lasting appeal 10- 
 engrossing and entertaing combat plus a lengthy and and amazing storyline makes the game really 
 enjoyable and addictive to play.
  
  OVERALL 9.7- an FPS experience never played before, different than all other games, creepy environments 
 and interesting story makes this game one of the best games ever. But you will need a good PC to 
 run this game as it has some technical issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timeaisis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  One cannot say enough about BioShock. There are plenty of people out there who feel mixed about 
 some of the game. Theres some that say it didn't live up to expectations, didn't 'change the face' 
 of the first person shooter genre like it claimed, however, it did change the face of gaming forever. 
 BioShock brought with it a message: gamers aren't stupid, we're not blood-hungry savages who want 
 to blow up things all day long hours on end. We can handle serious issues, we're not mindless like 
 the media makes us out to be. Developers: we're not all immature, and we're ready for serious games.
 
  
  BioShock is just too important of a game to pass up on how much its going to (hopefully) change 
 things. Hey developers: we're not stupid. We like to think, sometimes. And sometimes, we like plots 
 that go with all that action, and not just rationalize it. We like environments we've never seen, 
 and we like questions that can't be answered. We can handle games that make you think for days 
 after you play them. But anyway, about BioShock.
  
  BioShock is set in the very beginning of 1960s, and begins just as a usual adventure game would. 
 You're Jack, you're on a plane. It crashes. You're the only survivor. But instead of the deserted 
 island, you find a lighthouse in the middle of the ocean, find a 'bathysphere' and take a trip 
 down to the underwater 'paradise' of Rapture, a beautiful city where people are free to do as they 
 wish without the usual stops being in there way. But as soon as you get there you notice that something 
 has gone extremely wrong, and Rapture has fell into some terrible anarchic city where genetically 
 modified 'splicers' roam the city looking for a drug named "ADAM" from little girls accompanied 
 by large, dive-suit wearing "Big Daddies". Its truly a strikingly creepy and beautiful environment. 
 You learn the cities beginnings, sometime in the 40s, and attempt to unravel the mystery of its 
 downfall by battling splicers using a dynamic, RPG-inspired 'plasmid' system, where you can unleash 
 numerous abilities on your foes like setting t hem on fire, throwing objects through telekinesis, 
 and such. You also have a customizable character, that you can tweak through acquired 'gene tonics' 
 to boost your abilities. All this revolves around the strange symbiotic relationship of the "Big 
 Daddies" and the little Sisters, which play a big role in the game. Albeit the details, this game 
 does everything right. And you feel everything Jack goes through.
  
  This game is so amazing primarily because its a giant puzzle. You play not only because the first 
 person shooter aspects are very well created, being very fun and dynamic, but also because you, 
 as one of the only sane people left in the city wants to truly unravel the mystery of Raptures 
 downfall. You do this by collecting Audio Diaries of some of the cities most influential men and 
 women. But don't expect to be lulled to sleep by arduous cutscenes or in-escapable dialogue -- the 
 games story is there for the people that want it. By no means do you have to find these diaries, 
 and frankly, you probably won't find all of them your first play through, but the mystery is still 
 there, and the city itself is something to be discovered solely by the player, and amazingly not 
 presented through any third party. I feel this lends great significance to this game, since you 
 really take the role of the player more than usual. You explore the world on your own terms and 
 unravel the mystery yourself. Apart from all this, there is a storyline that follows, but the game 
 truly something until one unlocks its mysteries. Besides the amazing environment of this game, 
 it plays great, with unique action (utilizing character development and interactive environments) 
 and excellent battles that you can choose how they play out. No two players will play this game 
 the same, and no player will forget the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedifisto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is one of the greatest ideas to the gaming world since the halo trilogy. Not only with 
 its interesting story, plot, environment and characters but it also introduces a new weapon type 
 with its own story behind it. The even through in some realism in the. For Example if you use fire 
 against ice the ice with melt and certain object can fit through certain spaces. The graphics in 
 Bioshock are dazzling. Everything has the tendency to shine, the graphics aren't meant for it to 
 look super realistic but the detail sumwhat does. The over all quality of the game is great but 
 there are some minor flaws. One is that at times they have and effect were they try to steam up 
 the room a little to make it more frighting but sometimes to a point you cant see the electricity 
 rolling of your fingers. I don't know if they meant to have it that way but its just something 
 I noticed. Another thing is the there is no reminder for your heath or eve it is running low, sure 
 its a challenge but it has a disadvantage to you, and on that note if you are low on eve but your 
 shooting a big daddy with your revolver then decide to zap him so you switch to your plasmids, 
 you can only regenerate your eve if your in plasmid mode. But thats no big problem. Over all Bioshock 
 is a great game and totally worth the $50 so go drive to the nearest electronic store and sweep 
 it of the shelf and i almost guarantee they'll have it because its so popular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteelMeGaSE
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Everyone was crazy about the game, despite some of it's technical flaws, which, today, are not 
 a thing to worry about with the recently released patch. Let's say, the craze was well met. Definitely. 
 Somewhere beyond the sea, Bioshock unleashes a torrential wave of wondrous gameplay and freedom... and 
 story.
  
  The game indeed looks great. Many people jumped at it's visuals like a pack of hungry hyenas. It 
 utilizes a modified Unreal 3 engine, is packed with a level design which uses an art-deco style, 
 and the modeling is definitely suggestive of art power. If you haven't been living under a rock 
 for the last couple of years, Bioshock takes place under the sea, and Bioshock houses the greatest 
 undersea visuals in gaming history. It's not as though you're swimming in the water, at least not 
 for a substantial amount of time, it's just that you see the water in many, many places. The water, 
 if I don't seem to be rambling on about it, is so jam-packed with visual eye-candy appeal, since 
 the water itself was designed by an artist or two just for that. Also, the art-deco design of Rapture 
 is a breath of fresh air (pun intended) for those who suffer from a claustrophic distaste of otherwise 
 bland level design. Indeed, Ken Levine and his crew had done a considerable task to recreate a 
 perfect world set underwater. The enemies and NPCs are all interesting, although the splicer design 
 roster could have been enlarged.
  
  While Bioshock does quite succeed in surpassing visual expectations of today, it is in the game 
 play where the title shines. This is definitely the focus. There are two factors to how the game 
 play is so special; so unique: The story, and the immersion. The game uses a system called "emergent" 
 gameplay. While this is difficult to explain, let's just say it allows for the game to let it flow 
 freely, so as to not only keep the game going in YOUR way, but to keep it from becoming not only 
 predictable (and repetitive) , but from making the game experience stale. This is not what the game 
 would need to lose, since it includes nothing that you could call multiplayer modes. 
  
  Your character is named Jack, you'll see it in the opening sequence anyway, so no spoilers there. 
 You're on a plane and you are reading a card of a gift-like package. A bit afterwards, the world 
 fades out intentionally and you start to hear loud sounds, screaming, explosions, and all these 
 other sounds to depict, you wouldn't have guessed, an airplane crash. So you're forced to swim 
 towards a lighthouse, unrealistically placed in the middle of nowhere and apparently far from land, 
 and inside of the lighthouse, you find a bathysphere. This takes you to the well-known game element 
 that is called Rapture; an underwater city built by a philosophically inclined dreamer named Andrew 
 Ryan. 
  
  Immediately upon entry, nothing is what it seems. It becomes quickly apparent that the city, or 
 at least the starting point of it, is in the state of decay after sheer chaos. You come into contact 
 with a person on the get-go and are tasked with proceeding down the corridors and rooms of this 
 vast city. You'll encounter genetically engineered and spliced enemies appropriately named "splicers", 
 who come in many different flavors. Not long after said encounters, you meet a pair of NPCs: a 
 Little Sister and the ominous Big Daddy, the latter of which is classed as an enemy (of sorts) . 
 The game has quite a focus on this aforementioned pair, but you don't need to know that, as you'll 
 develop a keen interest and perhaps empathy for the pair regardless. 
  
  Aside from the Little Sister and Big Daddy pair you'll often meet, it is in a game element called 
 Plasmids, where the game is focused. You'll occasionally happen upon these abilities throughout 
 the game. They're your powers. They come in a vast variety. You either pick them up or purchase 
 them, or receive them as rewards for quests. Oh, "quests" is a keyword in describing what kind 
 of game Bioshock is. It is considered an RPG/FPS hybrid. Because of the emergent game play mentioned 
 earlier, your game, aside from some scripted moments, never plays the same. Not only do you go 
 through the entire city (or what is apparently a path, unless it is closed) , but you go have to 
 achieve goal completion many times as you're given tasks to do. You can also get two different 
 currencies; dollars (for merchandise or weaponry) and ADAM (for genetic modification) . While the 
 dollars are self-explanatory, it is the ADAM which is your main focus throughout. It buys you new 
 abilities and passive abilities, like Incinerate, Electro-Bolt, Telekinesis, Armored-Shell, Hacker's 
 Delight, & many more. You don't have full freedom to use these, as you have a mana system, called 
 EVE. This is gained by picking up glowing blue hypodermic needles or by upgraded healing. If you 
 completely run out, you're stuck with using your weaponry. Speaking of weaponry, you can upgrade 
 these to your liking as well, and you can use various types of ammo as well. 
  
  Back to the NPC pair already mentioned, these present a whole different area of game play altogether. 
 The Little Sister is a carrier of ADAM, and the Big Daddy is her protector. If you haven't already 
 seen demonstrations of him, he's a powerful dude. They come in two flavors, but one of them is 
 more dangerous, and he's the close-range Big Daddy. While they are docile in any other situation, 
 sticking to their role of protector instead of getting into trouble, they can give you a fight 
 you won't forget. They'll push you away if you get too close, or if you get right up to the Little 
 Sister, the Big Daddy will charge you away, basically scaring you off. What you have to do with 
 the Little Sister is a matter of choice, and is what presents morality in the game. Since she carries 
 ADAM, you have to either Harvest (kill) her, or Rescue (do not kill) her. The former rewards you 
 with at least twice more than the latter, but one path is good and the other isn't. To do either, 
 however, you have to take down the Big Daddy. Since he's the tank of Rapture, he takes a massive 
 amount of punishment before going down, and dishes out perhaps more in the process. The close-range 
 Big Daddy will pursue you, charging you at lightning speed (which WILL shock you) to tear you apart, 
 or the ranged one blasts you with a rivet gun or tosses proxy grenades your way. Aside from the 
 splicers, who attack in various ways, one Big Daddy can make up at least ten splicers because of 
 it's sheer durability and ferocity when provoked.
  
  The sound department works greatly as well. It helps to establish atmosphere. The splicers are 
 all insane or shattered individuals who utter at times disturbing or saddening messages, mostly 
 to themselves, to you, or to other characters. The voice actors are top-notch and are never a bore. 
 Like the splicers, a handful of them are outright creepy or dangerous sounding at times. The soundtrack 
 is also a great addition, as much of it consists of music from the "old" days, such as the 30's, 
 40's, and 50's. There are also plot forming devices called Audio Logs, which are recorded tapes, 
 that act as diaries of various characters who lived or do live in Rapture at the time of playing. 
 Truly, Bioshock shines in this department.
  
  If you have the system to handle it, then you should do yourself a favor and experience the game. 
 It is hard to truly pick apart either the PC version or the Xbox version because each has their 
 strengths and weaknesses. The PC version has the potential to be the better one, depending on your 
 setup and budget (since there was a patch released, technical problems shouldn't bother anyone 
 anymore) , by way of graphics and game speed. The console version, while more expensive than the 
 PC version, is an assured purchase and works relatively well in comparison. However, the console 
 version now stands as technically flawed because of highly reported hitching incidents. Also, if 
 your PC exceeds the game's requirements, then you're better of sticking with it than the Xbox version 
 since it perhaps meets medium to high graphic levels.
  
  Great job on the game, 2K games. As the spiritual successor to System Shock 2, this is a job well 
 done. It is all it cracks up to be, and more. A sequel is on the way, so I hope all of you appreciative 
 ones out there are awaiting it with much optimism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minglis
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  Bioshock starts out very exciting, your thrown into the ocean after this plane crash and then you 
 go down to this underwater "utopian" city only to find almost instantly, that its quite the opposite. 
 You find these crazy guys known as splicers going around killing each other for ADAM which basically 
 grants you special abilities through biological advancements (or something) . You then get some 
 weapons and some ADAM for yourself which you then use to get yourself the ability to shoot electricity 
 out of your hand. A great start and already the game sets it apart from many other fps shooters.
 
  
  Sadly it doesnt get much better from there, that ability is probably the coolest one and also the 
 most useful by far. The other weapons you get feel off, too weak, inaccurate and just not alot 
 of fun to use and those creepy looking splicers are the main enemy through out the whole game and 
 you will basically revert to using the same tactic of shocking them with your electric bolt and 
 smacking them with a wrench over and over again which gets old fast. Yea there are some other slightly 
 different tactics but they are fundamentally the same (you can freeze them and then hit them with 
 the wrench for instance) . The only time the combat truly even compares to games like crysis or 
 even halo (god forbid) is when you fight the BIG DADDY'S which have a great variety of weapons 
 and are quite intimidating and powerful. Still these occasions are rare and not totally satisfying 
 at times.
  
  Still despite this, the combat wasnt what made Bioshock so disappointing in my opinion. Thats not 
 what it was really about, it was meant to be about discovering this mystery about this underwater 
 city and Andrew Ryan (the founder of the city) and getting immersed into the story. It was about 
 being able to role play by upgrading your character in the way you want and customizing your weapons 
 and abilities in a rich world. Sadly though although it does touch on these principles the game 
 doesnt really push them all that far and the purpose of all them is purely to advance through the 
 game and the combat and yet since the combat is so one dimensional and so much of the stuff you 
 can get is useless alot of these great ideas are rendered meaningless. For instance you can shoot 
 at guys with bees coming out of your hands, yet they take forever to kill a guy and dont even truly 
 stun them, you can freeze them then break the ice but then you dont get any of their ammo and they 
 also dont stay frozen for long. You may aswell just zap them! And the guns are so underpowered 
 and unsatisfying to use that the upgradables to them arent that much of an important part of the 
 game. 
  
  There is also only one choice to be made that affects the story in any way throughout the entire 
 10 hour game. The story also gets quite simple, quite fast minus one twist which was actually quite 
 cool but other than that it isnt as good as it promises to be. The setting also gets quite repetetive 
 with little variety.
  
  Still, despite all its shortcomings there are still alot of great little things that give the game 
 some cool moments and further set it apart from the competition, like when you rig a health machine 
 to blow up on your enemy for instance, or when you electricute 5 guys in the water and other things 
 like that. However it doesnt make up for alot of the other great ideas which are frustratingly 
 just not executed well and in alot of cases dumbed down to be more appealing to halo fans rather 
 than system shock 2 fans.
  
  So in conclusion Bioshock looks great, sounds great and could have been really great but in the 
 end comes off as a pretty average first person shooter with alot of innovative elements that although 
 could have made this one of the most enjoyable first person shooters in a long long time, leave 
 it a remarkably unforfilled idea. A great idea with a very average execution though does not denote 
 a classic like so many people seem to think, it denotes an average one. Still in the end this game 
 is worth a look at but is far off being as good as it has been made out to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KennethSr
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  The storyline might be compelling, but it's hard to concentrate on it with these annoying freaky 
 splicers coming out of the woodwork and sticking to the ceiling in your face. I know video games 
 are generally fantasy , but when you unload a armor piercing 40 round clip in one of them and there 
 still throwing nitro bombs at you that is a little too much. At one point I unload 100 units of 
 napalm on one, and then reloaded and unloaded another 100, then a 40 round clip machinegun  and 
 four rounds of explosive buckshot, he still leaped on me blowing himself and me up, and that was 
 just in the middle of the game, they get harder to kill towards the end how superhuman are they 
 supposed to be? I could see using a lot of ammo to put big daddy down but the freaky splicers? 
 I know that they are part of the game putting you on the edge of your seat, but to me they are 
 down right annoying.
  Sorry but a 6.5 is the best I could give it.
  For what it's worth.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thirteen30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Rapture, Bioshock's colossal playground in which you can do whatever you please. The 
 '40s vibe can clearly be found in the architecture, fonts, design and even clothing. Not only does 
 it look fantastic, with extremely detailed water, fire, blood and surface area effects [which does 
 very well to heighten the eerie atmosphere of a utopia gone bad] , it sounds just as good. The screams 
 and taunts of splicers [junkies, essentially] haunt you wherever you go, and the guttural moans 
 and grunts of the gargantuan Big Daddy's will have you make sure you're extra-prepared for the 
 impending battle. Indeed, 2kgames didn't shirk presentation and attention to detail. 
  Let's face it - everyone's primary concern is gameplay. Bioshock never fails to amaze the player 
 with stuff to do and you'll definitely forget about the real world as you play. You have a variety 
 of guns to choose from, ranging from pistols to shotguns, grenade launchers to the classic Tommy 
 gun. Most of these weapons have different types of ammunition you can equip to prepare yourself 
 for tough enemies. 
  Next, you've got your plasmids. Plasmids in Bioshock are similar to "magic" abilities in an RPG. 
 There are a great variety of these, which include electric power [which you can use in water to 
 zap foes, or disable machinery temporarily and hack them to have them on your side] , incinerate 
 [set foes and chunks of ice on fire] , winter blast [the opposite] , telekinesis, enrage [which you 
 can throw at foes so they attack others] and plenty more. These come in handy many times in the 
 game, and you'll be carefully planning which plasmids you'll take along with you. Fear not, though, 
 as there are things called Gene Banks scattered throughout the worlds in which you can store plasmids 
 and tonics, so you can swap plasmids for one another.
  Plasmids aren't free, though. In the world, there are Little Sisters, which are basically little 
 mutant girls guarded by Big Daddy's [they look like a fat guy in a diver's suit essentially] . Once 
 you defeat the guardian [not an easy task] , you can do two things with the girl: Harvest here for 
 a ton of ADAM [what you use to buy plasmids and tonics] OR you can "rescue" her and revert her 
 back to her original form and get only half as much ADAM, but with a clear conscience and the promise 
 of greater rewards down the road [REALLY rewarding in the long run] .
  Similar to plasmids are tonics, coming in three varieties: physical, engineering and combat. These 
 are passive abilities and can range from things like increased damage with a wrench, getting more 
 health from first aid kits and the like. 
  The gameplay itself is really deep. You can try blasting your way through the world, using a careful 
 balance of stealth and strategic plasmid usage, or even play the resourceful engineer, hacking 
 security cameras and turrets to do the dirty work for you. There's so much variety to the things 
 you can do that you never get bored of felling foes. There are plenty of easy to solve puzzles 
 and "fetch" missions which are a nice change of pace. There's a few "optional" areas you can visit 
 for additional for cash [which you can spend on ammo, med kits and EVE hypos, which replenish your 
 "MP" so to speak, ammo, and other goodies. The way the levels are set up really encourages exploration 
 and searching through every container and corpse to get stuff that'll help you, which I found to 
 be really awesome. 
  The story at first, doesn't seem like much. You're just a guy who survived a plane crash and happened 
 to stumble upon the world of Rapture. A man named Atlas helps you out and guides you through the 
 beginner stages [the tutorials are cleverly integrated with gameplay, making them seem nearly invisible 
 - awesome!] . As you collect diaries [recordings of some of the popular denizens of Rapture] and 
 progress through the game, you find out a LOT more about Rapture's history and why it became the 
 way it is. There are some plot twists to keep the player happy, and the ending simply blew me away. 
 Yes indeed, the story certainly draws the player in as well.
  The only quips I had with this AMAZING game is that it crashed whenever I tried to change the resolution, 
 and it would never save any changes I made to options [including graphics, controls etc.] , so I 
 had to change everything every time I played. There are a few small and inconsequential bugs littered 
 throughout the game, but none that were so large enough to warrant a lower score. Also, hacking 
 stuff got pretty boring after the 50 billionth time [just a simple "arrange the pipes so you can 
 get from point A to point B" minigame with a few surprises littered throughout. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  BioShock is Irrational's finest offering to date, as well as the swan song for the Irrational brand 
 in a way, since they recently relinquished their longstanding and well-established studio name 
 for the more corporate, faceless tag of 2K Boston and 2K Australia. BioShock is a first-person 
 shooter set in the fantastically unsettling city of Rapture, a metropolis built under the sea by 
 the megalomaniacal Andrew Ryan. Throughout your lengthy stay, you'll find options for combat as 
 intricate and enjoyable as the story and characters are to interpretation, something that only 
 a handful of games can ever claim to offer.
  
  But to call this game simply a first-person shooter, a game that successfully fuses gameplay and 
 narrative, is really doing it a disservice. This game is a beacon. It's one of those monumental 
 experiences you'll never forget, and the benchmark against which games for years to come will, 
 and indeed must, be measured. This isn't merely an evolution of System Shock 2, but a wake-up call 
 to the industry at large. Play this, and you'll see why you should demand something more from publishers 
 and developers, more than all those derivative sequels forced down our throats year after year 
 with only minor tweaks in their formulas. It's a shining example of how it's possible to bring 
 together all elements of game design and succeed to the wildest degree.
  
  Things kick off with your plane smacking into the ocean and your character having to take refuge 
 in Rapture to survive. Irrational plays on the conventions of the first-person perspective by thrusting 
 you through experiences that toy with and vastly strengthen that fragile, intangible bond between 
 in-game protagonist and yourself. At times, it forces upon you moments of reflection, which is 
 so important and rare in games, where you contemplate the nature of blindly accepted game conventions, 
 which we can't get into for fear of spoiling things. It lays a relatively straight narrative path 
 for you, but it never feels linear, a result of the gameplay as much as the narrative.
  
  The target in BioShock, Andrew Ryan, is anything but a prototypical villain. He's a man of bottomless 
 ambition who built a city under the sea, obsessed with the idea of what makes a man, what differentiates 
 a man from a slave. He's the Randian hero, a man who holds his own creative vision above all else, 
 and he's Rodion Raskolnikov's exceptional person, someone who can be excused for committing crimes 
 to achieve a goal -- and he knows it. His vision, Rapture, is clearly a colossal failure. The driving 
 force behind the game is your quest to discover why this man's alluring vision of an artistic utopia 
 failed so completely and why you've stumbled upon it. Even though Ryan spits out what seems to 
 resemble totalitarian propaganda, you can't help but sympathize with him. He has alluring ideas, 
 speaks them with conviction, and comes off as a sympathetic visionary despite his severe eccentricities.
 
  
  As you continue through Rapture, you'll discover it speaks to the nature of what a single-player 
 game is -- why do we choose to play a game that isn't online, where you can't interact with others? 
 Like reading a novel, it's to form your own impressions, to see the same events, hear the same 
 words, and come away with a unique viewpoint. The thematic blending and twining of BioShock's personalities 
 is so powerful, it acts like any good book or movie, assaulting you with its ideas, popping into 
 your thoughts when you least expect it, and broadening your understanding of what a game can achieve. 
 Instead of painting Good and Evil across the foreheads of Rapture's denizens with a neon brush, 
 Irrational gave everyone murky motives, much like the shadowed, soaking environments you're constantly 
 plodding through, or the blurred vision you get after walking under one of Rapture's ubiquitous 
 waterfalls.
  
  t's the little ideas that pop up from time to time that make this world so believable: the piano 
 plinks that resonate as you browse menu options; the guitars you can actually play randomly scattered 
 around Rapture; the way every room is realistically constructed reflects both the heights to which 
 Rapture managed to climb as well as the decadence and sense of voracious, selfish entitlement that 
 brought it smashing down. You'll hear some of the voice-overs muse, "Why do they wear the masks? 
 Maybe there's a part of them that remembers how they used to be, how they used to look, and they're 
 ashamed." Little bits like that get tossed at you, and you don't necessarily have to absorb them -- they're 
 not essential to plot or anything, but they're instrumental in making BioShock as immersive as 
 it is.
  
  The game is broken up into large sections, each separated by load times. Don't worry; these aren't 
 load times like in Half-Life 2 where the game pauses unexpectedly. Instead, the load times are 
 logically placed and never jarringly interrupt the experience or mar the immersion. Each section 
 comes with its own cast of NPCs who aren't mere stage bosses -- oftentimes you don't even engage 
 them in combat. Instead, you are battling their ideals and their insecurities, grappling with their 
 motivations as much as the splicer minions who so frequently assail you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 25, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I will admit I did not play too far into the game, but to me that is the bad thing about it, the 
 game failed to grab me from the start. Ok, well the opening and the descent into the underwater 
 city was cool, but it ended there. The mobs attacking me all looked the same, all did the same 
 thing. The guns felt terrible to me, underpowered and inaccurate. I actually enjoyed the stunning 
 them and hitting them with the wrench, but the novelty wore off after a while. All the levels looked 
 the same to me, and it just had a been there done that feel to it, like outdated feel. I usually 
 give a game a chance, but this one was so "bleh" I just stopped playing and uninstalled it without 
 a second thought. Maybe it gets better, but if I played through every game I thought was bad just 
 to see if it got better I would have wasted a ton of time on bad games. Maybe that is my loss with 
 this game, but I can not imagine what they could do to counter the crap I played in the first portions 
 of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrackoSoldat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  BIOSHOCK
  
  Welcome to Rapture, an underwater paradise, which went wrong. The ingenious creation of humanity 
 is now plagued by various horrors and shambling monstrosities. From the very first moment, you 
 will notice two things - the amazing graphics, which could be the best of 2007's along with Crysis 
 and others. And second - the deep, engrossing story. From the peaceful airplane to the depth of 
 hell, Bioshock makes an entire world a living, breathing experience. And so you come in. You are 
 the one, who shall go down and stop this hellish machination. Instead of the usual "I go and kill 
 stuff!" routine, bioshock makes you think - from how to modify your weapons, to what powers do 
 you want to use. Which way will you go? How will you use your powers? Will you be good or evil? 
 
  
  The graphics, as mentioned, are amazing. You will instantly feel that you're down there. In an 
 underwater city. There is so much detail in the entire world, that you begin to think that it's 
 true.
  
  The sound is, honestly, wonderful! Every crack and spill can be heard. The voicing is done masterfully.
 
  
  The gameplay is very good. Unfortunately, no multiplayer.
  
  Sum-up:
  
  If you want a game, that's not just shooting and running, this is for you. The story is great, 
 but there is no multiplayer, so it's your call. NOT FOR THE EASILY FRIGHTENED OR THE FAINT OF HEART. 
 YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wacko_McSmacko
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  At first sight, i thought Bioshock was going to be one of the greatest games I'd ever play. The 
 first moment you go into the bathysphere and see Rapture amazed me. So did the gameplay, for a 
 total of an hour. You start off as this guy whose name I didn't care to learn and your stranded 
 in the underwater city of Rapture. You quickly learn that it's killed or be killed in this hostile 
 metropolis. 
  
  I was pleased with the plasmid powers in Bioshock. The electro ball with wrench was pretty fun. 
 But as the game progresses you sort of forget why your here and what your doing, the only fun is 
 killing people with plasmids, and even that gets old. The weapons are just average weapons from 
 the 60's. Theres the revolver, tommy gun, shotgun, and a couple others. It is pretty fun to switch 
 around the ammo such as instead of normal bullets you can use armor piercing bullets and other 
 different types. Even with these weapons, they aren't that effective. Headshots go from instantly 
 killing people to just hurting them a little bit. 
  
  The gameplay as I said above bored me after a while. You just run around Rapture doing seemingly 
 pointless objectives and slaughtering the citizens who mean harm. Sure, you get new plasmids and 
 stuff but it's the same thing for the 10 or 15 hours you should play this game. But after about 
 2 hours the game starts seizing up and the game stops for 1-5 seconds, and it annoyed me so much 
 i was about to beat myself to death with my own Xbox. The lack of difficulty made me mad. You die 
 and you go back to a vita-chamber with half of your health and half of your eve (stuff that powers 
 plasmids) . The enemies have the same amount of health that they did before you died. It's so easy 
 to kill big daddies (guards of little sisters) by dying and just running back a few times. Speaking 
 of little sisters, after the big daddy is dead, you can harvest them for alot of ADAM for plasmids 
 or save them for less ADAM. Choose wisely, as your action affects the story.
  
  As for the graphics, i must say the were absolutely astounding. The people were life-like and the 
 city of Rapture is so detailed that you just want to see everything. After beating the game i was 
 wondering why many other games didn't follow in Bioshock's footsteps with their graphics. The graphics 
 were the only thing that kept me playing.
  
  Bioshock was an OK game for me, but its weird storyline, seemingly pointless missions, repetitive 
 gameplay, and annoying freezing glitch certainly took away from the good of the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lance435
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  2007 was a year for video games. From Mario's triumphant return in Super Mario Galaxy to Master 
 Chief's "last war" in the Xbox 360 in Halo 3. But one game that was given a lot of hype and managed 
 to exceed it was Bioshock. Bioshock is the spiritual predecessor of System Shock 2 (everyone should 
 notice the "Shock", right?) , but who knows what that is? I don't. So basically Bioshock is considered 
 to be a game of its own. 
  
  Bioshock's amazing story is about a plane crashing down in the middle of the sea, and Jack, looking 
 for a place to stay/ an island, finds a lighthouse and inside it, is a bathysphere leading to the 
 former underwater metropolis now underwater version of hell called Rapture. The rest of the story 
 is now up to you to complete because from this point on, you will fill up the story. This could 
 be done by getting audio logs left by some of the game's characters before and maybe even after 
 it became hell. Also, the story's multiple endings also means that you could get an ending different 
 from my ending which depends if you chose to harvest/ kill or save the little girls in the game. 
 Did I forget to tell you that Bioshock's story happened in the 1960s?
  
  Another amazing thing about Bioshock is that its graphics not only amaze us, but also tells us 
 something about Rapture. Bioshock's graphics are very detailed. From something as small as the 
 dirt in the faces of the Splicers to the big bodies of the different Big Daddies, Bioshock emphasizes 
 these features in order to show that Rapture really became hell underwater/ under water. One thing 
 that manages to amaze me about the makers of the game (is it 2K?) is that they still chose to make 
 us see water outside Rapture and even give detail to it even if they really didn't have to. Also, 
 no matter how futuristic Bioshock sounds like, it is still seen in the game that it was the 1960's 
 because of all the old stuff seen there (the old jukebox, the old clothes, the old black & white 
 TVs) .
  
  One more 1960s thing into it is its sounds. Bioshock's sounds show a lot of stuff. First, the sounds 
 from the audio logs show the anger, the sadness, the joy and the pain the people in the game feel. 
 Also, the voices of everyone in the game sound real. From the major characters like Andrew Ryan 
 and Atlas to just the Splicers, Big Daddies and Little Sisters, their voice tells you that you 
 are in Rapture, not in your house. One more thing the game's sounds should be proud of is that 
 even your weapons and plasmids have specific sounds set for each, making each attack you make give 
 off a different sound. Finally, what makes the sounds 1960s type is the music. If you watched the 
 trailer, you might have heard that 1960s type of song "Somewhere Beyond The Sea". If you have played 
 some parts of the game, you could clearly hear the songs which clearly shows 1960. 
  
  Finally, the game shows that it deserved all the hype with its gameplay. From beginning to end, 
 you could feel all the action because of the mysterious environment and atmoshere. The main body 
 of the game which makes it unique is Plasmids. Plasmids, the game's version of magic, helps in 
 not only making the game feel mysterious, but also makes the game feel challenging while also being 
 a good way to kill enemies. There are multiple weapons with multiple bullets in the game. You could 
 a) smash enemies with your wrench, b) shoot them the old fashioned western way with your pistol, 
 c) rain down bullets upon them with your machine gun, d) blast them off with your shotgun, e) explode 
 some bombs into them with your grenade launcher, f) burn, freeze or electrocute them with your 
 flamethrower (its ironic how the flamethrower can actually freeze enemies) , and finally g) do the 
 crowd-favorite headshot from afar with your crossbow (why not a sniper rifle) . And to make each 
 kill you do a whole lot better, you could take a photo of your dead enemies corpse with your camera 
 and get a worthy bonus while you are at it. 
  
  Now that my review is over, it is now up to you if you want this or not, but if you do want it, 
 good luck because Bioshock will submerge you in a world of mystery, danger and darkness. Bioshock 
 will submerge you in a world where you will learn that a world without rules or laws will kill 
 you. Welcome to Rapture..........
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmedReaper
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 21, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I bet this game would have amazed me, if only it didn't have the absolutely highest and godly standards 
 to run even at a reasonably good rate. It literally made me want to rip my hair from its roots 
 from the stubborn graphics, but that's just because my computer is ****. Please don't take my review 
 as negative, its just that some people don't have the kinds of funds to keep up with PC games like 
 these. If you got a good computer go ahead and get it. I didn't realize how good it was until I 
 got an Xbox 360, and it only made me more angry to learn that with the right hardware it looks 
 and plays even better on PC. I gave it a low score for its thirst for high powered hardware that 
 can run some bills, and mainly because I get really mad every time I look at the PC box siting 
 there, just begging to be played... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaptain_insano
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  the game is great.... what can i say! there is so much to look into in bioshock. the feel and the 
 action is so fun. the way u can act in any given situatuon is great. wether u want to brain wash 
 a guy, or light him on fire and watch him squirm; its all fun! to me it did seem a little short, 
 but the gameplay made up for it.... textures are nice as well.... well... ya... there are 1 or 2 problems... the 
 first is sometimes it is hard to pick the right plasmid because the buttons are constalnty changing 
 as u progress through the game. with that said.... i definatly recomend bioshock to all the people 
 christmas shopping this holiday season :)
  
  Story line: you are a detective and your plane crashes into the ocean.... u end up in a sunken city 
 named Rapture. a friend named Atlas helps you uncover Rapture and guides you through various tasks. 
 will you come out alive? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjsidler02
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the art direction and cinematics are beautiful. Although I do not think the hand 
 and weapon models fit just right, nothing is more epic than when you first arrive in Rapture via 
 the bathysphere. 
  
  But, when you finally get knee-deep in the game, you will find that it is very predictable, somewhat 
 repetitive, and sometimes tedious. The story is hard to follow if you have never read anything 
 about the game previously, even if you track down every personal radio message from characters 
 throughout the game. Not only that, but the gameplay is just too easy, even on the hardest difficulty. 
 If you stock up on health packs, it is almost impossible to kill you. The enemies themselves are 
 also boring and repetitive. Even though there are many ways to kill the monsters, you'll find yourself 
 killing them the same ways over and over depending on what little ammunition you can find. 
  
  Even with the lackluster gameplay throughout most of the game, it kept me playing til the end.
 
  
  Overall, its a beautiful game, and if you are looking for a game to make you think, this is for 
 you. Otherwise, about 50 dollars may be better spent somewhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visceron
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2007 2:08 am PT
Review:  First of all this game is a FPS/RPG. As you play through the game you upgrade your character with 
 new abilities and plasmids (spells) . The catch is you can only use so many upgrades/plasmids at 
 once. That number will increase if you choose to spend the Adam (in game points) to do so. This 
 allows you to customize your character the way you see fit without being all powerful.
  
  The basic story is that you are in a plane crash in the middle of the ocean and come across the 
 city of Rapture. A character named Atlas helps guide you through the city via a radio. You are 
 tasked with the dilemma of rescuing or harvesting little sisters. 90% of the story is told through 
 the radio / tape recorder diaries. The game has a 50's feel to it, the architecture, art (in game) , 
 and technology all come from the 50's. The story twists over halfway through game and if you play 
 the Evil path it twists again at the end.
  
  In my opinion the story could have been a little bit stronger. The graphics have a great artistic 
 look. The textures suffer a lot if you are standing right next to something. I played the game 
 on max settings too. There is no real in game music, only ambient sound. Not really a downfall 
 cause I didn't notice it all. The voice acting was superb.
  
  The mouse controls did not seem quite as tight as most FPS games for the PC. The game allows you 
 to quickly shift between weapons/ammo types and plasmids by simply pushing the shift key and selecting 
 what you want. All the enemies are loud mouths, so you always know when you are not alone. Lastly 
 there are no epic boss battles. The only real boss is the final boss.
  
  I know I touched on a lot of negative aspects of the game. The important thing is the game is fun 
 to play. If you like FPS and single player games, this game is definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcohSS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Follow up games face some of the most difficult challenges in the industry; not only do they have 
 to live up to the original, they have to surpass it in some ways to separate themselves and achieve 
 glory in their own right. System Shock 2 was remarkable for the advances it made as a RPG/1st person 
 hybrid, as well as outstanding audio that could curl your toes in the wee hours of the morning.
 
  Bioshock takes us from the cold of space to the cold of the depths; and it does it with flair. 
 The opening sequence starts with a plane crash; the visual is stunning. It only improves from there; 
 a diving bell takes you from the burning wreckage on the surface to a beautiful underwater city. 
 The beauty is only skin deep; as you arrive, you witness the first of many gruesome scenes in this 
 game. 
  With echoes of System Shock 2, you begin the game with a would be friend talking to you from a 
 remote location. He attempts to bring you to him; you must battle the dying city and its unfortunately 
 still alive mutated inhabitants.
  As beautiful as the game is to look at, the visuals are not the strongest suit. Bioshock has an 
 engaging story that is revealed slightly out of sequence and in bits and pieces through recording 
 you find lying around, and from the few remaining denziens of the city that are relatively sane.
 
  You soon will discover the grand purpose that led to the building of the city, and to the choices 
 made that led to its eventual destruction. 
  The game is an excellent commentary on what could happen when scientific ethics and conventional 
 morality are ignored. The founder of Rapture, Andrew Ryan, disdains the two competing Superpowers 
 (USA and USSR) and opts for a 3rd way, his own city beneath the sea. I would not go so far as to 
 say this is a horror game, but a lot of what transpired in Rapture is disturbing; I wouldn't recommend 
 this game to children younger than 17.
  Now, even with a mature storyline, this game is rip roaringly fun to play. Like System Shock 2, 
 your character can be somewhat customized. You can take advantage of the enviroment to complete 
 tasks, use genetic enhancements, or just tank through it with a gun blazing (weapons are also customizable) 
 The genetic alterations, called plasmids, are a lot of fun to play with and offer great possibilities. 
 The weapons are fairly standard fare but customizations make even the small pistol a literal blast 
 to use. 
  The only fault I have with the game is the ending. The things that make the game such a blast to 
 play the first time through affects the replayability. There are different endings to be had depending 
 on choices you made through the game, but the punchline of the story, is a one trick pony. You'll 
 understand when you finish the game. That is not to say it can't be replayed for a lot fun; there 
 are many customizations to be tried with plasmids and weapons, but do make an effort to pay attention 
 and enjoy the story on the first play through. Awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGreatGameGod
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  If you do manage to get the game running - and maybe even get those new nVidia drivers or the ATI 
 hotfix installed for a little better performance - you'll find that BioShock, which runs on Unreal 
 Engine 3 - the same technology that powered Gears of War on the 360 - looks and plays great. People 
 who barely meet minimum requirements have found that the game runs well with a bunch of detail 
 turned off (although the best special effects in the game are lost in doing so) and the unique 
 features in the PC version make for a subtly different experience compared to the Xbox 360 port.
 
  
  So what are those unique features? The controls are the biggest, and the mouse/keyboard controls 
 feel excellent. I was able to pull off way more headshots and fire more accurately overall against 
 the Splicers, which is definitely a plus when you're playing on Hard difficulty and everything 
 takes more ammo to kill. Quicksaving and loading is in, with load times that are fairly long but 
 not insulting, and the engine will even load low-quality versions of textures and start gameplay 
 rather than make you wait. Then it will just quietly load higher-quality versions without hurting 
 the frame rate and swap them out as you go.
  also liked the Shift-key ability in the PC version, which pauses the game and lets you choose not 
 only any weapon or Plasmid attack, but also lets you click directly on a type of ammo for a weapon. 
 Sure, once you do that your character still has to actually stuff that ammo into the weapon once 
 the game unpauses, but it's a nice change over the 360 version where you choose a weapon and then 
 unpause the game to figure out which ammo is which. Eventually you get used to the 360 way of doing 
 things, but this system on the PC works better for me. The hacking mini-game also is point-and-click 
 and is definitely easier to play on the PC if you're even remotely good with a mouse.
  
  Beyond that, all of the special effects in the 360 version of BioShock are here on the PC version. 
 To get the DirectX 10 eye candy you'll of course have to have a DX10-capable video card and Windows 
 Vista, but I have found that most of the game's best effects work just fine when the game's in 
 DirectX 9 mode. Don't feel like you need to spend a bunch of cash getting all DX10-ified just to 
 get a satisfying visual experience here.
  
  play the demo to make sure your system definitely meets the minimum requirements and hold on for 
 the ride - BioShock is definitely worth your gaming dollar if your machine can power it.
  The game is great.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mushroom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  The game creates a genre of its own of some sort. It's location, It's story makes it a splendid 
 game not really fit to be put in one of the standard categories. From point 1 the story intrigues 
 you, and as you go on it dosnt let you down. At some points the gameplay itself can be a bit tedious, 
 but yet again. Flashing down enemies with plasmids and shooting down Spilcers with ur tweeked out 
 revolver is just loads of fun. And the graphics is stunning, no argue there. Its well done and 
 seems to be put some good matter of work into. As well is the characters and sounds you hear as 
 you pass through the world of Rapture City. It is as if the City of Rapture lives on. Even if your 
 not there. You can pass corners and see the inhabitants fighting amongst themselves about loot 
 or killing the big daddies and trying to catch the Little Sisters. Its as if its alive... Now the 
 world of Bioshock is very dark, and it needs to. Personally i love scary games. And bioshock got 
 up on that list. Cant count how many times ive gotten so scared i almost tosses my keyboard of 
 my lap ( Sitting in my sofa using a 40 tv as a monitor) . Its freaky, as you move through rapture 
 you are always on your toes. With out a warning some enemies might be lurking in the dark or even 
 walking straight behind you just waiting for the time to strike.
  
  I give this game a solid 9,5. The World of Rapture City is a place i will return to withouth a 
 doubt. Its a game well bought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeXgoreXcore
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  Awesomeness in its true form.
  
  Design - The graphics are stunning, everything looks so moist and you really feel like you under 
 water, the water detail is the best I have ever seen. Now the weapons are my favorites. They are 
 so unique because they are home-made and you can spot belts, cans, piano strings and stuff like 
 that and later you can upgrade them to increase their damage, clip capacity and stuff like that 
 which makes your weapon look even cooler. You also get Plasmids and they are these powers like 
 lighting some one on fire or zapping him with an electro bolt. The environments are designed in 
 a very spooky way and you feel all alone in this giant city and every little noise can make you 
 drop your gun and run away (just kidding)
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is so fun, you walk around this city, stuff jumps on you all the time, 
 appear behind you and smack with a wrench or something.
  The combination of weapons with Plasmids is a lot of fun, you can zap a dude to stun him and then 
 hit him with a wrench or light someone on fire near water, wait for him to dive in the water (believe 
 me he\'ll dive) and then shoot an electric bullet in the water to fry him.
  
  Story - The story is very interesting and hard to understand at the first play.
  You are a dude 
 that crashed on a plane near this light house inside there is a submarine that takes you underwater 
 to the city, when you arrive you see that something went horribly wrong and a guy named Atlas asks 
 you to help save his family and from here lots of crazy poop (Gamespot didn't allowed the cooler 
 version of this word) happens to you.
  Most of the story is told through recordings of people that lived in the city and the main characters 
 that talk to you with a Walky-Talky.
  
  Overall....... The perfect FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adversary16
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  Just like this review, there's nothing worthwhile in it!
  
  Let's start with the good points... OMG! It's a short list but I can assure you this game has its 
 pros. The graphics are simply stunning, incredibly detailed along with perfect character animations 
 and a fantastic art direction. It runs relatively well too on a high-end system. Then there's that 
 little unique something that every games should have! What would be Crysis without the nanosuit, 
 Timeshift without, well, time? Bioshock without the plasmids?
  
  Now, the story! It's interesting but doesn't fit well into that game or that particular genre. 
 Granted, it has a lot of meaning but there's that feel that something's not right. The gameplay 
 is satisfying for the most part, thanks to the plasmids! However, the weapons don't feel right 
 and are not that fun to use since the available weapons are themselves somehow limited. 5.5 - Gameplay
 
  9.0 - Graphics
  3.0 - Story
  
  Maybe it's just me but I really don't like this game as its flaws can easily overcome the strong 
 points thus spoiling the game's experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elbow2k
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock was the one game I reluctantly got because it just seemed like the thing to do at the 
 time. Right? I mean everyone liked it and everyone said this was just a great game to play, so 
 I thought to myself, well I better see what all the (explicit) hype is about. Previously I had 
 been turned off by the gameplay videos that I had seen about it, however I felt that if this was 
 a great game like it was being advertise as such, then it could win me over. I was wrong, and even 
 though I don't regret purchasing it, I feel that this game is just a great example of the hype 
 machine.
  
  I want to get this out of the way before anything else, Bioshock is a good game, but in lue of 
 the fact that this game was supposed to be one of the best of the year, I can't not think of it 
 as a disappointment. It's the spiritual successor to System Shock 2, which it is an almost carbon 
 copy of, however it is dumbed/watered down to the point where it doesn't even feel like an FPS 
 with RPG elements, and more like a customizeable wrench wielding (explicit) fest. I can't say I 
 ever got the feeling off, yeah, now this game is fun, because I was loathing the repetatitveness 
 of this game. I think at one point I got so irritated with those stupid hacking mini games that 
 I wanted to stop playing the game because I was going to punch my monitor.
  
  Yeah it blew hot (youknowwhat) as far as I'm concerned. It was basically the same level, same enemies 
 - as irritating and annoying as they get - same useless concepts which in the end just kill the 
 game. I don't know if 2k realized that less than a handfull of those plasmids are worth it - the 
 super power addons you can inject yourself with. Even thought some are amusing, the price you pay 
 for using the garbage ones, which is about 90% of them, outweighs the outcomes, making most of 
 them just a waste of EVE - the bio-fuel you need for using Plasmids. What was probably the most 
 irritating part had to be the constant diversions, for example, coming up to door, which should 
 be easy to open, then being told that you have to travel through hell just to get it to open, which 
 involves senseless backtracking, irritating enemies and my personal favorite, those (explicit) 
 annoying gun turrents/cameras.
  
  The first thing you hear about this game is that it's a FPS-RPG , which is just a bunch of bull (explicit) . 
 I don't know what was more pathetic, its FPS aspects or its RPG aspects. For the most part, you 
 can beat the entire game using your wrench, which totally defeats the purpose of an FPS, since 
 it is a first person 'shooter'; not only that but a good 60% of your weapons are useless, completely 
 useless, like they aren't even worth your time. These upgrades virtually don't do (explicit) and 
 are complete useless, furthermore they don't equate to being an RPG element, because as far as 
 I'm concerned, there have been tons of FPS games out there that do have gun improvements. Not only 
 that but having three kinds of specific ammunition, might sound usefull to some, is completely 
 worthess in this game, and even more difficult to cycle through, because it takes a year to load 
 the new bullets or the new magazine, making the pace of the game slow as (explicit) .
  
  The next thing that you might hear is that you can customize the abilities of your character. This 
 in truth is usefull, I actually found several of those Tonics which prove to give you an uper hand. 
 However just like Plasmids and the weapons in this game, only a handfull are actually worth something, 
 the rest are just crap. Which then brings up the question, what where they thinking? I know the 
 point of an RPG is to have choice right? You got crappy weapons and crrappy abilities, and then 
 you have the vise versa, but the good seems to outweigh the bad; in this game the crappy severely 
 outweighs the good. Also moral choice in this game, once again leads us down the path of either 
 becoming the second coming of Jesus Chirst, or Satan reborn. Seriously, is there something wrong 
 with doing something different than that? Can I be in the middle? Presentation wise, this game 
 has probably the worst graphics for a game using the Unreal 3 Engine. I was running this maxed 
 out and it seriously just looks bad. The enemies look pasty, and so does the blood, the level design 
 is like I said before, repetative and boring, and the animations look pretty bad. All in all this 
 isn't a pretty looking game for those that have the ability to max it out, or for the guy who loves 
 his graphics. Sound for the most part is pretty non-existant. You don't have interludes of music 
 like you do in other games. Even though I'm not a sound guy , I believe that sound is able to drive 
 the pace of the game and create a setting that is what both the developers and the audience want. 
 The story is great, taking nothing away from it, but it is a carbon of copy of the one from System 
 Shock 2, just that has a different theme and setting.
  
  Even if you felt like you wanted to try a game that isn't your conventional FPS, Bioshock isn't 
 the one to be choosing. It gets boring and mundane, you want to finish it off just for the sake 
 of beating the game. It doesn't have multiplayer and is of average length, around 15 hours, meaning 
 that unless you enjoy playing games over and over again, this probably wont fit your needs. I can 
 see how this would work on the Xbox 360 because of the achievements, they would promote playing 
 it over again just to get them, seeing as a lot of them are hard to get from what I heard. However 
 that doesn't translate well on the PC, due to the fact that there are no achievements, and if you 
 beat the game and are attentive, you can pretty much figure out all there is to know about Bioshock. 
 This is a game with a lot of promise, that just doesn't come through; it's empty, annoying, and 
 difficult to get it up running on the PC, meaning that it's safe to say that letting this one go 
 wouldn't be a bad idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fadook
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  I finally located my once lost copy of System Shock 2, the classic from the same develeopers as 
 Bioshock, and completed it before playing this game. This led to a profound and disturbing realisation. 
 Bioshock is exactly like System Shock 2, except with better graphics but dumber gameplay. There's 
 not an innovative bone in its body. Exactly the same story conecepts have been reused from SS2; 
 you're alone in a world gone wrong with nobody but a voice to guide you; people have been hideously 
 mutated and driven insane; ghosts, randomly appear; you collect information about the world through 
 diaries left scattered around; you're guided by one helpful stranger while being taunted by your 
 nemesis, etc. Every single one of these devices was used in SS2.
  
  The gameplay is also highly derivative of the older game. Despite the completely different settings, 
 even the level design feels familiar. As in SS2, there are loads of security cameras and turrets 
 to hack, and what seems to be a straightforward objective is always complicated by something blocking 
 your path requring you to take a roundabout route. The developers have even lifted the vending 
 machines from SS2. You have Plasmids for super powers, while in SS2 you had cybernetic implants. 
 And just as in SS2, the combat is rubbish. Firefights in Bioshock fall into an unhappy middle ground 
 between the fast paced action of Quake and the slower, more militaristic pace of games such as 
 Far Cry. You don't move quickly and can't bunny-hop like mad as in the former, but have no recourse 
 to the stealthy or planned approach as in the latter. The result is a dull experience as enemy 
 AI is limited to charging at you. Gameplay quickly becomes repetitive as you go from one area to 
 another, slogging through the tiresome combat and dodging/ hacking the seemingly endless security 
 placements. There's no variation whatsoever. 
  
  So why is Bioshock worse than SS2? Because SS2 had a much stronger RPG element to make up for its 
 combat faults. There are no character classes in Bioshock, and choice over how to develop the strength, 
 stamina, agility, or anything related to your character other than which Plasmids to choose and 
 upgrade, so there's little sense of character progression. SS2 also worked for better as a survival-horror 
 game, managing to be much more immersive and creepy despite being set far in the future.
  
  I'm not really trying to write a comprehensive review of Bioshock, why is why I haven't mentioned 
 the positive points. I just feel that this game is wildly overrated. In summary, it's not anywhere 
 near as innovative as it pretends and as every critic claims. And due to the tiresome gameplay, 
 it's really not that fun either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KurialGod
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is one of 2007's most achieved games ever. Bioshock has brought lots of beautiful graphics, 
 penetrating sounds, and great gameplay that any FPS fans will enjoy. As much as how good the game 
 is, there are still some things that could be better.
  
  Pros:
  -Graphics are just out standing. None like you've ever seen.
  -The sounds can really give you 
 the thought to get you sucked into the game
  -The gameplay is just awesome
  -Just plain fun
  
  Cons:
  -Little bit too easy to beat.
  -Might give a hard time for people 
 with their computers to play this game
  
  This game is really big, and if you have a bad video card, I suggest you not buy this game unless 
 you have a good one. Windows Vista runs great with this game. 
  
  Overall I think this game provides lots of things that will get people who aren't fans of FPS games, 
 get sucked into. This game is just great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazmaster666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  "I rejected those answers; instead, I chose something different. I chose the impossible. I chose 
 . . . Rapture. A city where the artist would not fear the censor, where the scientist would not 
 be bound by petty morality, Where the great would not be constrained by the small!!"
  
  These are the words you hear early on in the game as your character finds himself entering the 
 under water world of Bioshock. Indeed the city of Rapture is quite a place, filled with a horrific 
 sense of wonder and a dystopic sense of chaos. And indeed Bioshock is more than just a game, it's 
 a gripping narrative that completely immerses the player into the game. In fact, Bioshock feels 
 like a novel come to life, with characters so vivid and a world so lively it's hard not to lose 
 yourself.
  
  Like the opening moments, you will find yourself constantly out of breath as you move from one 
 area to the next, as desperate as the game's protagonist to escape the horrific world of Rapture. 
 And yet you can't help but marvel at the eerily beautiful environments, even as you are smashing 
 slicers across the head with your wrench. The sense of urgency is obvious: you can't help but get 
 caught up in the moment. Yet human curiosity gets the better of us all as we explore places that 
 we should not delve.
  
  Soon you realize what it means to have power. You shoot lightening from your hands, light your 
 foes on fire or simply freeze them in their tracks.
  
  But alas, there would be still those who are determined to get in your way. These crazed splicers 
 may have lost their sanity but not their will to live as while they would do anything to kill you, 
 they run away when defeat seems certain. But that's what your revolver is for. Shoot those poor 
 souls in the back and take them out of their misery.
  
  Watch out however for the Big Daddies. These hulking giants seem like a combination of man with 
 machine. Dare to venture too close to a Little Sister and they'll defend her to their dying breath. 
 Dare to attack one and he'll hunt you down with unending determination. But even these giants crumple 
 to their feet eventually, and you are left with a choice.
  
  Do you kill the Little Sister or let her go? Though they speak with a devilish voice, they will 
 squirm away from you like any little girl. The decision is yours to make, and so are the inevitable 
 consequences.
  
  Of course nothing can ultimately stop you, as you've become more than just a man, and eventually 
 all your foes will crumple at your feet. And yet as you near the games ending, a horrible sensation 
 overcomes you and you realize the truth. Like I said, the choice was always yours and yours alone. 
 And yet, perhaps you never had a choice at all?
  
  Bioshock is an completely immersive, technically impressive, and overall highly enjoyable first 
 person shooter that brings role-playing and adventure game elements into the mix. But it's ultimate 
 success is due to it's ingenious storytelling, which will remain in your fond memories for a long 
 time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jota_wa
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 2:29 am PT
Review:  I began to play Bioshock all hyped up, been tracking this game for a very long time, and when i started 
 to play, whow, excelent graphics, sound and characters!!! The sceneries are great and the guns also, very 
 imaginative, and the story, well, the best... but, after 10/12 hours of gameplay the game just gets 
 a little repetitive... i think maybe because you get almost all the weapons, tonics and powers very 
 early in the game, and use the same things over and over again... it's a shame... i really wanted 
 to finish the game, but i can't! I get bored after 10m now! But someday.... who knows :) !
  But, i'm pretty picky with games, so nevertheless, this game is awesome, buy it if you can or play 
 it in a friends house, it's a must have for people who loves FPS! Definitely a mark in FPS gaming!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serious_sam1122
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is the spiritual successor to System Shock, the game that preceeded this one. Lot's of 
 hype went into this game, and it surely lived up to that hype. Beautiful graphics mixed with an 
 engaging storyline and great gameplay makes this one of the must have games of the year. 
  
  Bioshock starts out with the protagonist in a plane. The plane crashes in the middle of the 
 ocean, with you as the only survivor (how convienient.) You see a lighthouse in the middle of nowhere, 
 and you move into it, finding a bathysphere that takes you down to Rapture, the perfect place for 
 perfect minds to come together. Or some it seemed. The place is destroyed, and crazy maniacs roam 
 the water searching for ADAM, a substance that enhances many aspects of humans. 
  
  The main premise of Bioshock is the ADAM and EVE. The ADAM is a substance found underwater by some 
 sort of sea slug that can ehance anything about a human, from looks to abilities. The only problem 
 is, ADAM is in short supply, leaving the ADAM to be harvested by little girls called "little sisters." 
 These sisters are protected by "big daddies," large lumbering creatures in a massive diving suit 
 that is armed with a drill or a large gun. And they are very heavily armored.
  
  Once you get some ADAM, you get abilities, such as electric shock or telekenisis. You need more 
 ADAM to get more abilities, so you must kill the big daddies that guard the little sisters. This 
 is no easy feat, but the game unfortunately send you to a vita-chamber after you die, so technically 
 you can't die throughout most of the game.
  
  The game has a nice balance of guns and plasmids. You will find a lot of guns in the game, ranging 
 from a revolver, a shotgun, grenade launcher, tommy gun, spear gun, and a chemical thrower. All 
 guns can be upgraded and use different ammo. There are a limited number of machines called "Power 
 to the People" machines that allow for a one time upgrade. For instance, you can upgrade the revolver 
 to hold 24 shots instead of the normal 6. The ammo varies as well. The chemical thrower can shoot 
 flames, electric bolts, or liquid nitrogen. 
  
  The plasmids, are the star of the show. The various abilities will help you along the way. Some 
 include the electric shock, flame, bee attack, and others. The use of ADAM abilities allow you 
 to switch really quickly between a gun and the ADAM. The use of plasmids is not indefinite, as 
 you must refill on EVE in the form of a shot. There are also tonics that can be purchased, which 
 can range from tonics that enhance defense, or allow you to hack items easier.
  
  The story is really satisfying in Bioshock. The citizens of Rapture have been corrupted and are 
 killing each other. Everyone seems to blame Andrew Ryan, the creator of Rapture, for hogging all 
 the ADAM. You are led to believe that too as you hunt down Andrew Ryan. The story is really satisfying, 
 and the moral choices you have to make throw a curveball in there. After the battle with a big 
 daddy, you must choose to harvest or save the little sister. Harvesting kills her, but nets you 
 more ADAM. Saving her spares her life, but at the cost of less ADAM.
  
  Graphically, this game is great. The environments really make it feel like the sea is going to 
 cave in on you. The water effects are really great, but the character designs are kind of weak. 
 The characters look like puppets, and when they die, they sometimes twitch. It looks unnatural. 
 This is an outstanding game, but more could have been done with the Unreal Engine. Sound wise, 
 this game rocks. The big daddies let out whale like howls and snarl fiercly when they attack. 
 
  
  Beings there is no multiplayer (plasmid figting would have been fun) , this game should last a while. 
 The game takes anywhere from 15-20 hours to complete. This is a nice change to the FPS formula, 
 but had the wrinkles been ironed out, this would have been a much better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hatak
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that I have been waiting a very long time for. Ever since it's original preview 
 in Gameinformer magazine, I have been dying to get the chance to play it. Along with Crysis, this 
 game is truly a work of art! It's innovative and absolutaly breathtaking to look at. If you have 
 a top of the line system then you know what I'm talking about. If you don't.... GET ONE! What makes 
 the game so great is it's innovative approach to the FPS style of gaming. Allowing your character 
 to upgrade his body with plasmids and also upgrading your weapons to defend yourself against the 
 numerous and devious enemies that lurk around the corners throughout Rapture. Supporting this these 
 great features is a strong and exciting story. The game will keep you guessing all the way to the 
 end. Truly a game worth buying and keeping in your collection for a very long time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Foxcono
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Perhaps the best FPS experience I have ever had. Stunning visuals create an amazing and artistic 
 environment, combined with a fantastic storyline. Although there are "missions" the game is very 
 open-ended, so there is always plenty to do. The system of plasmids and weapons is incredible, 
 and add a thrill to this game like no other. There was not a moment where I wasn't enjoying myself. 
 My only complaint is the incredibly long load times, but they are so rare that it really doesn't 
 impact the game. No multiplayer needed at all - and the "choose your own ending" format has always 
 been a personal favorite of mine, and this executes it perfectly. Recommended to anyone with 1/2 
 a brain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lawcool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  This is definitely one of the more interesting FPS I have played (which is a lot) , with interesting 
 story and innovations. Ok, granted that all those body and weapon upgrades and security hacking 
 are inherited from System Shock, I still consider Bioshock to be innovative. For example, the interplay 
 between different weapons and plasmids (body upgrades) and how you take advantage of the environment, 
 etc. I also appreciate the balance of the game level design. The designer take good care of scatter 
 just enough amt of ammo and eve around so that you really have to conserve your resources (e. g. 
 can't just shoot everything) . This added to the tension of the game. Ok, this is the case at least 
 at the earlier parts, later you will accumulate more ammo. 
  
  But to fully enjoy the game and appreciate its qualities I mentioned above, you have to TURN THE 
 DIFFICULTY SETTING UP TO THE HARDEST, otherwise enemies are too easy to kill and you will never 
 die. I know some ppl complains about the auto resurrection, but I can tell you if you play "DIFFICULT", 
 then resurrection won't solve all ur problems. To give an example, new enemies will spawn out after 
 your resurrected and sometimes you just have to deal with them, which means you will end up depleting 
 your precious stash of ammo or eve. You certainly can't (you might be able to do that but not without 
 a hell lots of reloading) finish your game with just your wrench!
  
  I haven't finished the game yet. But so far I am very satisfied with it and I thoroughly enjoy 
 finally playing something that is more interesting than just another clone of the shoot-anything-that-move 
 formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lzblind
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Lemme keep it short. You could have fun with this game if u have nothing else to play.
  
  
  The enviroment is interesting, but that's it. It gets boring after 2 or 3 hours. Personally 
 I didnt find it beautiful, but I respect other ppls opinion cuz maybe my PC isnt good enough to 
 show the full graphics of the game.
  
  
  The weapons feels like out of a child imagination, you have few ammo at first and as u dont really 
 die, why spend it? Go "melee" with the monsters until they are dead... feels like playing games 
 with cheat, u get bored after 1 or 2 hours of godmode. And in this piece of.... u cant turn it 
 off...
  
  
  The monsters are boring and repetitive, your character has no personality and soon you will be 
 shooting instead of trying to understand the story. A story of an underwater city full of dark 
 rooms, corridors, levels and zombies. Very funny... if u wanna shoot zombies and dont wanna ask 
 what they are doing there, just for the fun of it, go play SSam...
  
  
  There are two amazing things in this game, the first is that ppl can give a 8-10 score to it. And 
 the second is that it could be considered of of the best games of 2007... amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 9:43 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 9
  Graphics 9
  Sounds 9
  Value 10
  Tilt 10
  
  The Good
  * Choices have consequences
  * Compelling story
  * Extremely well optimised
  * First encounter 
 of the big daddy
  * Sander Cohen
  
  The Bad
  * The fake widescreen option
  * A tad too easy
  * Owning your own water park
  
  I really couldn't agree more with the above 
 statement by one of the major characters of Bioshock, Frank Fontaine. Ever since the announcement 
 made by the developers of System Shock, I really couldn't avoid tagging this game. Of course it 
 could be the case of being the victim of over-marketing however I took the gamble and honestly 
 my 'investment' has certainly paid off. There were at times I have placed my doubts over this game 
 (e. g. the concepts of the little sisters as apposed to the PC game FEAR) however I bit my tongue 
 and purchased the now rare Limited Edition Box and drown myself into the world of Rapture.
  
  Looking back now after finishing the game some two months later (I really took my time searching 
 every bit of Rapture) , I felt a great sense of achievement and that means the ingredients of a 
 wonderful game. I will admit that during the 'demo' sequence when you first arrive in Rapture and 
 almost immediately playing a puppet in practically injecting every friggin plasmid you'll come 
 across, it did raise a skeptical eyebrow thinking 'here we go, another ported console disaster' 
 and thought this was the idea of the developers as an excuse to get straight into the 'bam-bam' 
 action otherwise our cousins, the console players will get bored and ditched the game in total 
 disgust (which equates to lost revenue) . This and the some-what linear game play made me a little 
 disappointed. However, just like a very good mystery novel, when the secrecy is revealed, I swear 
 that this is probably the most cleverly disguised linear game play I have ever encounter; period.
 
  
  To those (like me) who studied philosophy will know that the Bioshock concepts were derived by 
 the ideas Ayn Rand. Therefore Bioshock can be looked at as an interactive experience of understanding 
 Ayn's works as there are many references made back to Ayn (e. g. Ayn Rand - Andrew Ryan; Her novels 
 'The Fountainhead' and 'Atlas Shrugged' - Fontaine and Atlas and the list goes on) . Also to those 
 who visited the Rockefeller Center in New York City, remember that art deco style 'Atlas' statue? 
 See the familiarities?
  
  That said, considering the (very cleverly disguised) linear game play, the developers make sure 
 that the player decide the 'fate' of Rapture (i. e. is it the flaw in the philosophies of Objectivism, 
 or in the men and women who practice them) . You are not required to nuke everyone or even to raise 
 your gun. Like System Shock, you have many options to dispose your foes by hacking into turrets, 
 wisely use your plasmids (similar to 'spell casting') or even get your foes fighting against each 
 other. There is also this moralistic choice of saving the little sisters or to put it gently harvesting 
 them. If you decide to 'sit and wait', you can see the splicers (people who literally overdosed 
 on Adam - the main ingredient for 'altering' one self - think of plastic surgery on a 'plasmid' 
 scale) go about doing their own business and talking among themselves. Later on, you will get in 
 hold of the ever-valuable camera where you can research your foes and hopefully learn more about 
 their talents and have the opportunity to upgrade your weapons and plasmids.
  
  Considering the game uses the latest Unreal Engine, you will have really no issues running the 
 game. Extremely well optismised to run almost any mid-range PCs, everyone will enjoy what this 
 engine can produce. Graphically, the game is impressive. Nice shadow effects and detailed environments 
 will naturally enhance the game play. Apparently there was a dedicated team that created all the 
 water effects so do yourself a favour and take a look at these marvelous ripples as impressive 
 algorithms are used to create these wonderful effects. However the widescreen option is some-what 
 a flawed concept. Unfortunately it's not truly widescreen as the developers simply cut the top 
 and bottom to create that widescreen effect. A real shame in my opinion considering how much time 
 was taken to create a visually impressive 'art deco' style world but with the new patch is on its 
 way will correct this flaw.
  
  One of the most memorable moments of this game (and arguably one of the most noticeable icons in 
 a video game) is when you first encounter the big daddy and the little sister. The extremely heavy 
 'thump' of the big daddy accompanied by the gloomy moan will bring shivers down your spine. I really 
 felt the immense power of these big daddies and the uncanny voice of those little sisters are abnormal 
 indeed. Even if you managed to dispose the big daddy you really need to hear the unnatural cries 
 of the little sisters. Other sounds like the creak of the floor boards, the announcements made 
 throughout Rapture ('Hey there, fellas. You know that 9 out of 10 ladies prefer the athletic man?') , 
 or even the skittering of the spider splicers above you really makes you think twice about your 
 next move. The now free-to-download musical scores are pleasant to hear and if you have a chance, 
 listen to the 'hits of the 50s' played throughout the game (remember the song 'How much is that 
 dog in the window?') .
  
  As mentioned above, the entire game play is really up to the player. You can literally steam roll 
 the game hence should be able to finish it probably under 10 hours however if (like myself) try 
 and explore every nook and cranny, it can take around 20 hours. Also, like many other games of 
 this genre, there is that easy, medium and hard settings to tailor all players. I personally played 
 it on the hard difficulty and it was challenging enough. That said, seasoned FPS players should 
 avoid the easy and medium difficulty settings. There is also this 'debatable' issue about the concept 
 of death. In Bioshock, there is no 'true' death as there are ample of 'vita-chambers' which resuscitates 
 the player. This made the conception of the game being too easy however what is the difference 
 between the player using the 'quick save' option and being revived in the vita-chambers? And please 
 don't say 'sense of achievement' either (unless you are playing it using the Xbox 360) .
  
  The packaging of Bioshock comes to me of a great surprise. I bought the Limited Edition Box as 
 I really want to view the 'Making of' therefore getting into the developer's eyes. However, to 
 those who were very lucky enough to purchase the box will have the pleasure of also owning the 
 big daddy figurine. Just think of originally the developers have no plans of making a Limited Edition 
 Box therefore my sincere thanks to those who placed that petition on their website demanding the 
 Limited Edition Box set. You guys rock!
  
  Ever since the announcement made by Take Two, I religiously tagged this game and followed the footsteps 
 to see if this is one of the greatest games for 2007. I know it's a bold statement however considering 
 the flurry of FPS in the market, it's really hard for any FPS game to stand out of the crowd. If 
 the game does create a form of uniqueness then it will permanently etch in people's minds as a 
 memorable game and Bioshock has done exactly that. I can assure you that even though you may not 
 want to play the game, you will still recognise icons like The Big Daddies, Little Sisters and 
 probably Andrew Ryan. If you have gotten this far in just recognising these figures then an interest 
 has already planted in your mind and all it takes is that seed to make a mega success as this game 
 has already done. So instead of reading this review any longer, would you kindly install the game 
 like millions of players have already done so and immerse yourself in the world of Rapture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TK-422
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  A great Game Bioshock is. It Was A little Different Than I expected but fun nevertheless. It Has 
 Great Graphics, good story, Very impressive voice acting.
  
  The come back to life thing made the game too easy. the limit on ammo was not my favorite feature 
 in the game, all it did was cause me to use my wrench the whole game (except the fight at the end) , 
 since I could not die it did not matter if I used my wrench.
  
  The last boss was very exiting to fight. it was also fun to maim enemies. to beat their bodies 
 is very fun.
  
  Overall the game was fun and the story was satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arch-Vil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Bioshock is simply one of the best games ever made ,along with Half Life 2 .
  every thing about Bioshock is great , the gameplay , the graphics , the story.
  it's some kind 
 of mix between FPS and RPG , because you'll get to buy ammo and stuff , and upgrade weapons and 
 ammo , and you'll have to choose between saving little sisters or killing them because the ending 
 depends on your actions in the game , of course killing them means more ADAM , so it's your call 
 .
  
  The classic Music in Bioshock is great too , makes you feel like if you live in the fifties , and 
 you are (in the game ) , LOL .
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sNaKeyy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  After the first grades received by Bioshock, i can't believed that it was real. I said: "I gotta 
 try this out". THe first impression was whooaa, superb atmosphere and graphics and sound. The music 
 from years '80 is awesome, i can't explain it in words, it's unbelievable. The good points for 
 the game are many, but i must say that the plasmids make a good game, the weapon upgrades are also 
 great ( i like the visual upgrades of the weapons) , the tonics that are many and various and finally 
 but not last, the Big Daddies and Little Sisters. They are a couple, if a little sisters feels 
 bad about you, the big daddy attacks you, although you'll also attack him because you need the 
 ADAM. If you rescue the little sisters you get less ADAM, but some gifts later in the game. If 
 you harvest them you get all the ADAM. 
  Depending on what choices you make, the game has 3 end-games. One at good side, one at bad side 
 and one on alternative side. I must say this is a must play game, near Call of Duty and Crysis 
 may be the best shooter of the year, great optimization of graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is the long awaited "spiritual-sequel" to System Shock 2, and it's by all means worth 
 the wait. But is it a classic? Unfortunately, in my book, not quite. This is simply because Bioshock 
 is held back by a few too many nagging issues that bring the game down quite a bit. Regardless 
 however, Bioshock is still a high-quality shooter that shooter fans will undoubtedly enjoy, despite 
 its problems.
  
  The setting and story of Bioshock are undoubtedly the best aspects of the game. In Bioshock, you 
 are on a plane that suddenly crashes in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean. You are the only survivor 
 and are lucky to find a lighthouse- in the middle of the ocean... Let me restate that- you are 
 unlucky enough to find this lighthouse, for it leads to Rapture- an underwater utopia gone bad. 
 With nowhere else to go however, you are forced to explore the city and try to survive while the 
 mystery of why you just had to show up in Rapture unfolds. Its a very interesting mystery with 
 quite a few twists up its sleeve.
  
  I might as well talk about Bioshock's other outstanding feature, and that would be its graphics. 
 The graphics in Bioshock are very atmospheric, fit the theme perfectly, and are just plain gorgeous 
 in general. Your in for quite the treat if you have the machine that can handle it. The sound design 
 is also very well done, with excellent voice acting all arround and well implemented environmental 
 sounds. The guns all benefit from sounding powerful as well. The music however is the weak spot 
 here, being unmemorable and generic whenever it does kick in. 
  
  Whatever the case however, this being a "spiritual successor" to the System Shock series, doesn't 
 the game need to be frightening? System Shock fans have nothing to look forward to in this department 
 unfortunately- for the scary aspect of Bioshock falls completely flat. There is little, if anything 
 at all, scary or frightening in Bioshock.
  
  So how does Bioshock play? For the most part, extremely well. For use against all those enemies 
 you face, Bioshock gives you quite a bit to work with. Along with your basic weapons, you've got 
 loads of plasmids available to you. You can zap enemies, torch them, freeze them, swarm them with 
 bees, make them fight each other, make certain enemies join your side, etc. All these abilities 
 make for alot of effective, and entertaining tactics for you to use against your enemies. Its a 
 little unfortunate however that the standard weapons you have are just plain run-of-the-mill FPS 
 guns with a few unique ammo types. The plasmids in question are also a little bland when taken 
 alone, so its the combos that you can execute with the standard weapons and plasmids alone that 
 are really unique.
  
  The enemies in Rapture are not easy pickings though- even with all of those plasmids. All of the 
 enemies you face in Rapture put up a good fight thanks to the game's great AI. And if you want 
 to get stronger, you can always harvest the little sisters, but you'll have to fight the Big Daddies 
 first... The fights against the big daddies are by far the best parts of Bioshock from a gameplay 
 perspective, and make for some of the best FPS confontrations you'll ever experience, as you can't 
 just charge at them if you wanna win in one life! Unfortunately, it does get repetitive after a 
 while, as Bioshock suffers from an extreme lack of enemy variety.
  
  Err, actually... You can, if you really wanna be cheap. This brings us to one of Bioshock's main 
 flaws: its checkpoint system. i. e: revival system. Whenever you die, you get resurrected in the 
 closest vita-chamber, and any enemies you damaged stay damaged unless they can heal themselves. 
 On one hand, this does eliminate the frustration of potentially reaching the situation of battles 
 that you could not fight past via normal means due to lack of ammo or health/eve. The problem here 
 is that there aren't any truely insurmountable fights in Bioshock. You should be able to handle 
 most of them until late in the game, at least at the standard difficulty level. Vita-chamber placement 
 also becomes rather annoying later in the game, as your forced to walk back through sections of 
 a level you've already been at innumerable times. And whats the sport in just winning those battles 
 through attrition? The vita-chamber system saps all of the true challenge Bioshock has to offer. 
 Of course, some people will probably embrace the vita-chamber system, as it allows them to complete 
 the game in the easiest fashion possible (Like just using the wrench...) . 
  
  All matters considered however, Bioshock is a great game. It has some of the best shoot outs and 
 confontrations you'll ever see in an FPS, and the graphics are absolutely stunning. Its far from 
 perfect with several extreme nagging issues plaguing the game unfortunately. The game also suffers 
 from what can be a fairly short length if you just rush through it (I was almost done with the 
 game in less than 8 hours) . But if you look past those errors and relish in what Bioshock has to 
 offer, than your in for quite a ride.
  
  Pros: Excellent gameplay with tons of combos you can pull off with plasmids. Great enemy AI. Stunning 
 graphics. Great story and setting.
  
  Cons: Vita-chamber system saps all challenge out of the game (finding a way around this system 
 is HIGHLY advised) . Severe lack in enemy variety. Not very long. Lousy boss battles, especially 
 the final boss. Horror aspect of the game falls flat.
  
  Recommendable for: Despite its short-comings, Bioshock should be experienced by any FPS gamer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReallyFriendly
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Let's get this out into the open. Bioshock is NOT System Shock 2. There are some shameless ripoffs 
 (like the ghosts, the diaries, the way the story plays out) , but the core gameplay has been altered 
 to suit a broader audience. Not that that is a bad thing. All it means is that die-hard fans of 
 the previous series won't be too happy.
  
  One of the best things about Bioshock is that the first impressions are not false. It starts off 
 looking fantastic and feeling real, and that never goes away. There were several hours I spent 
 in the game that I forgot I was playing one. Incredible settings and atmosphere almost makes you 
 smell the brine in the air. My only gripe is once I got introduced to all the main players, I pretty 
 much guessed the dramatic twist, because it had such a 'System Shock 2' feel to it. While references 
 to Ryn's work is great, the plot itself should have been more surprising. Ah well, I guess this 
 is their trademark.
  
  If there is an award for outstanding audio, Bioshock, like it's predecessor, deserves it whole 
 heartedly. Outstanding voice acting and ambient noise makes you believe you were standing in Rapture 
 instead of observing it through a glass bubble. One of those games where listening actually pays 
 off, as everything has an audio clue to key you to what to expect. In a sense, it trumps SS2 because 
 now the monsters actually speak and evolve some personality instead of just groaning or clunking. 
 It also reminds us that what we're slaying are acutally people, not creatures...
  
  Gameplay is when things don't look so great. Granted, it gave me a lot more entertainment than 
 Doom 3 or COD 4 because it was so free-form, but it felt lacking in certain areas. There is little 
 reason to specialize here because you can't really. You may want to be a pure melee brawler, but 
 once you start pushing against the Big Daddies, you will find yourself hefting that grenade launcher. 
 You can't be a mad marine with giant guns, because there are points where plasmids offer the path 
 of least resistance. While this makes it more appealing to more people because they don't have 
 to force their gameplay style down, for others like me who like to create specialists, this felt 
 like a letdown of sorts. Still, once you managed to kill a Big Daddy in six different ways, it 
 does lend itself a kind of thrill you won't find anywhere else in the FPS market. I don't mind 
 the vita-chambers so much (I thought of it as saves without the loading times) as they can only 
 be abused if the users choose to. I didn't, cause I tried my damndest to stay alive. More enemy 
 variety would have been great, but since there were so many ways to slay them all, I found myself 
 not minding that too much. 
  
  This is one of the must-buys for this year of gaming, if only to take the trip at least once. Things 
 that bring it down is the toned-down complexity from Deus Ex or SS2, the omigod predictable storyline 
 (at least to people who played the SS series) , and the slightly over-user-friendly gameplay. Still, 
 I don't think these are serious flaws at all (if they even are) , so do yourself a favour and get 
 this one. And make sure you use GREAT audio equipment, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElvisNixon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  At first I didn't like the game because of the respawn after death with no penalty thing. But I 
 just play without using the respawn chambers -- i reload from my last save if i die, just like any 
 other FPS. Thus, you can effectively take the respawn chambers out of the game if you want.
  
  At max difficulty and playing w/o respawn, it is perfect difficulty for me, an experienced 
 fps player.
  
  With that issue taken care of, I'm really enjoying the game. It is in the same category as system 
 shock, dues ex, and undying, in that is is a rpg-ish FPS. And it does a good job of balancing the 
 spells and weapons. The monsters are well animated and depicted. Unreal 3 engine is the best in 
 terms of bang for buck. My system maxes it out at 1200x1024. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reprogramming
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 30, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  First was cd-check, then Starforce and now SecuRom. Do not buy this. They do not respect their 
 customers; therefore you should not make them richer. Many people think like me. Listen to us "2K 
 games". You are not going to make more money with SecuRom, you are just losing customers. On the 
 other hand the game is not so good. Very nice graphics and good scenery but the game is kind of 
 boring. The enemies are always the same and the game is quite easy to beat, no challenge here. 
 Overall it feels like a bad shooter with fancy graphics. Pass this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SrTVBR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock bring to us a great and amazing history and en redo that make us locked in to it. The 
 bame has plasmids and gene tonics that modify our DNA and we gain a great variety of powers like 
 electro-bolts, Telekinesis, etc. You can buy this powers on machines with Adam that we extract 
 from the little sisters.
  The AI is good but not that good =P We can find some tricks to kill the Big Daddies very easy.
 
  The scenario is very detailed and worked. It has a lot of things that remember the year of 1959.
 
  The audio is very impressive, great quality, real and unique.
  I give to it 9.5, i want to give it 10 but dont have multiplayer support = (
  
  Conclusion: 
 Worth buy it for sure! What you waiting for? Go for it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkmetalf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock. Right off the bat, the first weird thing about this game is its name. Bioshock? Maybe 
 a little back story is in order. The developers of bioshock are some of the same that created the 
 P. C game classic System shock 2. They've stated that Bioshock is the spiritual successor to system 
 shock 2, hence the name. But the name is not the only strange thing about this game
  
  Premise: You are in a airplane wreck out in the middle of the ocean when you find a lighthouse. 
 Odd. You swim to that light house and enter rapture, an underwater dystopia crawling with genetically 
 modified freaks, little girls turned to into monsters and lots of alcohol strew everywhere. A man 
 named Atlas seeks your help in saving his wife and son, However, all is not as it seems... (dun 
 dun Duhhh!)
  
  Graphics: Great. High res textures, fantastic lighting and particle effects all courtesy of the 
 Unreal 3 engine. The game also offers decent performance. Runs great on my computer.
  
  Story: Has a few twists and one major twist that will turn the game back on its head. Odds are 
 (if you never played ss2) that you will never see it coming. You will need to search to find all 
 of the little parts of the story to complete the picture. Sometimes the diaries are in hard to 
 find out of the way places which means that you may miss some parts. 
  
  Voice acting/Dialogue: Great. The dialogue fits the setting very well (early 1960 in a world stuck 
 in 50s, the vernacular of the time, "dame", "respectable business", "fellow" you get the idea. 
 Just watch a few movies from the 50s) Voice acting is also well done, better than most games actually. 
 No complaints here. 
  
  Game play: Nothing special. This is where the game really kind of fails to live up to its promise. 
 Few of the plasmid upgrades are really useful (odds are that you will just end up shocking everyone 
 all through the game) and the games ranged weapons are often unnecessary because the wretch is 
 so overpowered. There is also no death penalty. If you die you re spawn with all your weapons at 
 the nearest "vita chamber" Personally, I feel like this is really a good device to keep the gaming 
 moving forward, especially toward the end of the game, but it does detract from the difficulty 
 significantly. Sometimes it just feels like the game play was a tacked on extra. No doubt that 
 it took a backseat to the creation of the art work in this game.
  
  Sound: Little music is included in the game but the sound effects are well done. The sound of splicers 
 cursing and screaming insanely from down the hall behind you adds to this game horror factor tons. 
 
  
  Value: At most, two replays to get the two different endings. Its took me about 18 hours to complete 
 on medium first run. (you can just you tube the other ending ;-)
  
  Do i regret buying this? Never. I bought this game half off (my only BF purchase) and never really 
 expected it to rock my world ( I waited 3 months to buy this) . However, it was a great gaming 
 experience, if nothing else for the sheer unique beauty of its world and the fantastic final cut 
 scenes. (i got the good ending, but I you tubed the bad) Is this the most fun game play experience 
 of all time? Not even close. Most times combat is just a hand to hand slug fest, a la condemned, 
 without being able to block. Many of the engineering upgrades are useless, as you can simply shock 
 turrets, cameras and run past. Despite these failings, the art direction, immersion, the story 
 and the overall experience demand at least a rental. Which is really all the game is worth in the 
 end. 
  
  8.5
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPetit
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  Bioshock sure is one hell of a game: you're taking a nice relaxed plane flight when you suddenly 
 crash into the ocean. So then you just knock on the door of the mysterious lighthouse that has 
 appeared in front of you while you were floating around in the sea. As soon as you've taken the 
 elevator down your suddenly right in the middle of it: Rapture, the great underwater city where 
 nothing is impossible. The minute you take control of your personage you're being confronted with 
 the strange residents and their weapons. While you continue through the beautifully designed and 
 ruined city it becomes more and more clear to you what has happened, what's happening right now 
 and what the purposes are of the inhabitants of this mess. In the game you meet certain important 
 key figures, the one more crazy than the other, that drag you further through the amazing story 
 that's behind this city.
  
  Bioshock is one of the weirdest but also one of the best shooters I've ever played. It's a weird 
 game because of the unusual gameplay which, especially in the beginning, will confuse you. Because 
 as soon as you've picked op your wrench and taken your first shot of EVE there is no escaping the 
 kind of clumsy changing between genetic weapons, such as the electric shock, and good old fashioned 
 led. Although you'll get used to using both kind of weapons pretty quick in battles you'll still 
 experience some trouble when a Splicer is approaching you fast and you're still searching for the 
 right weapons, because a shock only stops him temporarily, a flame won't kill him immediately and 
 a gun won't just do the job either.
  
  But enough about weapons and gameplay cause we always have the Vita-chambers! Finally a game were 
 you don't have to load constantly because you died and you forgot to save. In short: when even 
 your awesome weapons can't save you you'll be revived at the nearest Vita-chamber so you can try 
 again.
  So in the long run the gameplay is pretty good but just not what you're used to if you play a lot 
 of shooters. 
  
  With the many advantages this game has there is a disadvantage. Here's the deal: this game has 
 so many positive aspects but it's a shame that all these aspects are really strong in the beginning 
 of the game but decrease while you advance through the game. For example: in the first few levels 
 I really enjoyed the creepy atmosphere that I felt in the halls of Rapture. I was once scared out 
 of my wits because of someone suddenly popping up in front of me. The atmosphere stays pretty good 
 in the rest of the game but I never had that real 'horror' feeling in the rest of the game.
  Then there are the Big Daddy's. The first time you attack one of those creatures is awesome, you 
 have no idea at what you are doing and that thing is killing you constantly but attacking those 
 Big Daddy's is a highlight in the game. But it became kind of a routine job for me to attack one 
 of those things.
  
  Bioshock is a great game in spite of a few minor disappointments like the 2 aspects that decrease 
 in the progress of the game: the creepy atmosphere and fighting the Big Daddy's. But it's still 
 a rewarding game with enough good sides to forget about the bad sides, cause even if you find the 
 weapons and the gameplay annoying the game looks great and there will be a few points in the storyline 
 you won't soon forget.
  A daring masterpiece!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ah_lim81x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Those norm FPS i've seen so far is carrying guns and more guns on your mission but this game is 
 putting element into it. It's up to you weather you wish to take control of the element or find 
 yourself in solo with just guns and melee weapons. Bioshock could have a chance to score full marks 
 by implement storage space to players to check their inventory or imbue items if possbile. This 
 game worth your pocket $$ even if you are the first one playing FPS game. G G G G G G G G G G G 
 G G G G G G G G 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Starbound571
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Having never played System Shock or System Shock 2, I was a bit skeptical about trying this game 
 as I wasn't sure at first if it was tied into the stories of those two games. It was a while back 
 when I started hearing positive things about this game, even DAYS before it was even released, 
 that I started to become extremely intrigued. The raving reviews are definitely reflective of the 
 game's quality.
  
  Imagine it's the year 1960. You are on a plane over the mid-atlantic ocean. In a freak accident, 
 the plane crashes, landing you in the middle of the ocean. Just a bit of a distance away appears 
 to be a tower of some sort. Having been the only survivor of the plane crash, and out in the middle 
 of the ocean, you swim towards it. Soon you find out this is no ordinary tower, that it leads down 
 to an underwater metropolis called Rapture. Although all is not well even when you get down there, 
 as you soon realize that the denizens of Rapture are all violently hostile. Eventually you uncover 
 the mystery behind all of what's going on with Rapture, and why it's all happening.
  
  The game only has a single player mode, but it's amazingly fun from start to finish. Think of a 
 first person shooter that is slightly horror themed, involves retro guns and almost futuristic 
 gene splicing, with a roleplaying twist to it. Put those together, and that's what Bioshock is 
 in a nutshell. Those looking for fast paced and frantic run-and-gun action will probably be disappointed 
 by Bioshock, as the guns aren't the only stars. In fact, it almost seems like the guns take a backseat 
 to the real star of the show: the story itself.
  
  Although the story is extremely interesting, in the beginning it feels as though a lot is thrown 
 at you too quickly to understand it. Thankfully, the game makes up for this as you go along and 
 things are explained to you fairly quickly. Towards the end, you are left with a satisfactory feeling 
 that what you didn't know at first when you entered Rapture is now clear to you.
  
  Bioshock does have a linear feel, but it does it in a way that feels unique - certain actions throughout 
 the game affect the characters you encounter, and may even affect your fate in the end. You will 
 have to make decisions that sometimes question your ethical beliefs.
  
  The guns themselves feel, reload, and sound extremely retro, with the ability to upgrade them they 
 can also feel a little ahead of their time too. Unfortunately, my opinion is that the guns are 
 out of place for the decade - revolvers, tommy guns, and the like were used around the 1940s-1950s 
 mostly - the game takes place in the 1960s so the guns feel a little TOO old for the time period, 
 but then again there's a certain story element that partially explains why this is.
  
  Bioshock totes itself as a "Genetically Enhanced Shooter", and with partially good reason. Not 
 only can you use guns as your weapons, but you can genetically enhance your character with Plasmids 
 and Gene Tonics to give yourself extra abilities. While this is nothing particularly earth shattering, 
 I haven't seen a first person shooter to pull this off really well, and explain it story-wise, 
 especially for the time period this is set in. Just like guns, you will have to make critical decisions 
 on what to upgrade first, upgrade later, or just pure give up ever getting the upgrade. While it's 
 technically possible for you to collect many of the Plasmids and Gene Tonics, the game is crafty 
 in that it only allows you to carry a set amount of these at a time, forcing you to juggle what 
 to take with you and what to leave behind for now until you have another chance to swap out again. 
 Dying in the world of Rapture is almost non-consequential, as if you are killed, you are instantly 
 resurrected at a Vita-Chamber in the game. Due to this, the game may feel a bit too easy to those 
 who generally try to avoid dying in first person shooters, using duck and cover tactics.
  
  Graphics are done terrific in this game - water looks believable, the environment's lighting is 
 suited to the underwater nature of Rapture, lights reflect off shiny surfaces, and as a bonus for 
 all you Vista users out there, Bioshock has advanced DirectX 10 effects available if you have a 
 DirectX 10 compatible video card, to top it all off with even the most subtle of effects. Of course 
 this is not to say you cannot enjoy the game on DirectX 9, in fact it still looks terrific in that 
 mode. My only complaint about the graphics would have to be certain surfaces reflect light off 
 them that doesn't appear quite right, but this is negligible.
  
  Sound is also top notch, however there are some notable issues with sound in the PC version, and 
 unfortunately I encountered this on occasion - sometimes the sound will drop out entirely for a 
 second and then chug along as if nothing ever happened. Some encounter it, some don't, but I did 
 on a Creative Sound Blaster Audigy card. The issue seems to occur the most on security alerts with 
 an alarm blaring and a security bot shooting at you. Other than these issues, the sound sets the 
 mood for the game really well - you'll hear various ambient sounds, some creepy voiceovers, like 
 the insane ramblings of your splicer enemies, to the "uh-oh" moments like when you hear the groan 
 of a Big Daddy around the corner.
  
  The game also has an assorted collection of licensed music you will hear throughout the halls and 
 rooms of Rapture - but again, the music, like the guns, feels out of place for the time period, 
 as most of the music is from the 1940s-1950s, and there's even an assortment of songs that were 
 made as early as 1932. This doesn't detract from the feel of the game's retro effect however - 
 it only adds to it, which is always a good thing considering.
  
  Unfortunately, as was stated before, the PC does have it's fair share of technical issues, although 
 I have encountered none except perhaps long load times and audio dropping out. For those who are 
 concerned: The game IS copy protected by SecuROM copy protection, the game DOES require that you 
 have the DVD in the drive to play, and online activation IS required to get the game to work. While 
 it does seem a bit overkill, if you intend to play casually you generally will not run into an 
 issue. But if you are absolutely against intrusive copy protection in games, avoid the PC version 
 of this one and try the X360 version if you have that console instead.
  
  All in all, it seems a lot of things were done right with Bioshock, and very little was done wrong. 
 It's a winning package that's DEFINITELY worth the money you spend for it, just check to make sure 
 you meet the requirements for the best experience possible - the requirements are fairly steep 
 as far as the recommended goes, and for DirectX 10 you'll need at LEAST a fairly recent card (From 
 time of this review) if you want to enjoy the DirectX 10 features the game has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowspriteT7
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Overall this game was great and it kept me occupied for hour upon hour of game play. The incorporation 
 of plasmids on the right click, and the ability to swap on the fly between the weapons and your 
 plasmids is just sick. It also has a RPG feel to it even tho its an FPS. I really liked being able 
 to loot bodies and progress at a rate that i wanted. Awesome, and lots of replay value, something 
 i look for in games when i buy them. Also, if it wasn't for the odd setup of the world of rapture 
 then it might not be as eye catching and i might've missed this amazing game. Definitely worth 
 $50 if you can spare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nagelz_Dk
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  I would recommend this for people to buy, but not to people that want a challenge when playing 
 FPS's.
  It is about a man who crashes with his plane in the water near a peir, he swims to it and docks 
 underwater in a wessel.
  Down here he meets these "Splicers" who aren't to friendly and will do whatever it takes to kill 
 you. They dont always suceed.
  Then there is the little girls that walk around collecting ADAM from the dead corpses around the 
 city, these girls are guarded by an giant robot like monster who tries to protect the little sisters 
 as good as they can.
  throughout game you find diaries from the people who lived in the corrupted city underwater.
 
  
  I completed it all on hard in a day, and i founded the last boss in the game the easiest.. But 
 apart from that it is a VERY beautiful and completed game, both story and game-play.
  a good thing to do would be playing demo first to see if u like it but i give it 9/10
  
  It 
 is an game that should be tried its worth the while.
  
  WAY TO GO 2K ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shiben
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  2K games developed and distributed game - Bioshock was hyped a lot during some last few months. 
 And the game lived up-to its reputation really well. The game is a nice mash up of FPS and RPG 
 but in a way that it doesn't seem like an RPG at all. With its fantastic atmosphere the game tells 
 you an intriguing story of a unlucky man trying to flee an underwater city of craziness. The game's 
 main feature is its game-play complexity which I will explain in game-play section, lets get started 
 with the review already:
  
  Plot: The game is set in an underwater city which was designed by an industrialist in 1946 but 
 things happen there as citizens become crazy and mutated. You, the protagonist, crash land on the 
 location in 1960 and find out whats the deal with this place. Rest is the game. Your objective 
 will keep changing according to the events happening around you.
  
  Graphics/Performance: The graphics of Bioshock are based on Unreal3 engine, no wonder they are 
 very heavy. But apart from graphics, the game requires a good processor as well. A 3Ghz or a dual 
 core 2.4GHz processor is recommended seeing the games complexity. The game is running well on a 
 7950GX2 and best on a 8800GTX.
  
  The Environment designed are very beautiful featuring colorful lively places along with taste of 
 tension and destruction. Bioshock features the best water rendering I have seen to date. (Yeah 
 well, Crysis is a nex-gen) .
  
  The music and sound is true to the atmosphere, you will keep hearing 1960s era music / announcements 
 along with enemies crying out fused up with environment's noise echoing in the background. The 
 perfect match of graphics and sound makes you feel like you are inside the game.
  
  Gameplay: Ohkay, let me count you the things which you will have to do throughout the game:
  
 - Collect/Use weapons: pistol, machine gun, shotgun, etc.
  - Collect/Select appropriate ammo for your guns (eg. machine gun features regular ammo, armor piercing 
 ammo, anti-personal ammo... and so on for all guns)
  - Collect money by looting dead bodies
  - Keep collecting / Buying medkits and use them appropriately.
 
  - Upgrade your weapons at weapon upgrade stations located at some places in the game.
  - Hack enemy turrets, spy cameras to make them your ally and shoot your enemies.
  - Take photographs 
 of enemies to research them and thus increase your ability against them.
  - Collect useless items but invent a useful item out of them with the help of a 'uinvent machine' 
 located at some places in the game.
  - Collect plasmids (genetic/magic-like powers) in return of Adam (a genetic substance) at 'Gatherer's 
 Garden' located at some places in the game.
  - Use Plasmids appropriately like throwing flames, electric current, freeze etc.
  - Upgrade your 
 combat, physical, hacking abilities with tonics available in exchange of adam.
  - Keep collecting / Buying 'Eve' which is like the ammo of all your plasmids.
  - Collect adam 
 from little girls which you can do only if you kill their dangerous body guards: Big Daddies (Note: 
 Big Daddies are not your enemy)
  
  I hope I didn't miss out anything. With all other games these days limited to first few similar 
 features, this game takes you to a next level of complexity. It's a little like an RPG but not 
 completely, as the hoch-poch of inventory-screen and its management is removed. You mostly use 
 the things as soon as you collect them. Also don't think you can do the game alone on the basis 
 of the weapons (well, you can set up a challenge) , its essential to do all the things I mentioned 
 above. Algebraically when all the other games like STALKER, SS2, Oblivion, Arx-fatalis have made 
 (FPS+RPG) , Bioshock is a (1.5*FPS+0.5*RPG) .
  
  Big Daddies are not your enemy as I mentioned. These monsters mostly will be ignoring everything 
 and roaming around the places. He can summon mutated little girls who can collect adam while he 
 protects her all the while. You have to make a Big Daddy your enemy if you want that adam. Killing 
 a Big Daddy is really tough as they are equipped with heavy armor and power weapons. They are the 
 toughest to kill in the entire game (even tougher than the bosses) .
  
  So after you kill the body guard, these little girls can be cured off mutation (rescued) or can 
 be killed. Why would you kill them? Well, you get more adam when you kill them than if you rescue 
 them; Which in turn, as I said, can be used to buy plasmids & tonics, which keeps making you powerful. 
 But beware, you face different kinds of endings, depending how kind hearted or how sinful have 
 you been throughout the whole game. There are technically 3 different endings but I would say only 
 2: One for sinners, one for heroes.
  
  Enemies are called splicers who are mutated people who carry all kinds of weapons and some carry 
 plasmids as well. You can kill them in various possible ways as it will depend on how you choose 
 to kill them.
  
  Technical Issues: Bioshock PC version features securom drm crap which has caused a lot of trouble 
 to people. The game's protection system gives you only 5 reinstalls. So just remember to uninstall 
 the game before you wish to reinstall. Or you can simply choose the xbox-360 version which doesnt 
 have such issues. Bioshock is not released for PS3.
  
  Overall: The games main innovation is in it's right level of complexity. Its a must play for all 
 FPS lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolterror
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  BioShock is a classic masterpiece in every regard. It can very well define how the future shooters 
 wil lbe like. BioShock has everything that a gamer wants. Immerse gameplay, beautiful world, briiliant 
 voiceover and sound and a superb storyline. Once you start playing BioShock you won't stop until 
 you have ended the game. The plasmids and tonics are awesome factors of the game. The different plasmids 
 and a very nice weapon range really give you plenty of options to execute your enemies. The AI in 
 Rapture is not stupid and they do give you a tough time. But with the diverse collection of plasmids 
 you can really show them who is the boss.
  Then there are the "Big Daddies", they are the most difficult to beat and yet the only group that 
 isn't hostile towards you from the word go. You have to attack them to make them hostile towards 
 you and that what makes this even more brilliant. Then there is also the test of morality when it 
 comes to "Little sisters" either to harvest or to rescue. The first time you always tend to rescue 
 the little sister but then Rapture takes its toll and you go on and become a splicter yourself 
 with greed for Adam makes you fall below your morality level.
  The storyline is one of the best and its complex nature and the narration is just out of this world. All 
 the pieces fall into place once the story gets unfold.
  
  All in all its just a masterpiece and i hope we'll see more games like BioShock. It definitely deserves 
 the game of the year award and as a game, i dare to say, its superior to Crysis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bileman
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Remember a game called Dues Ex where you could upgrade your abilities with biomod canisters and 
 upgrade your weapons with silencers increased damage and ammo clips? 
  
  Bioshock offers these same additions to the standard first person shooter game along with a dark 
 and twisted story and a more open style gameplay. 
  
  The year is 1960, your plain crashes into the Atlantic. You emerge from the wreckage to find yourself 
 at rock island where a submarine pod takes you to the underwater city of Rapture. You arrive in 
 Rapture to find a civilization in ruins. Excessive genetic modifications to the city's population 
 have led to violence, insanity, death and destruction. You are left almost completely alone in 
 this hostile environment with a bunch of loony "splicers" trying to kill you. It's time to find 
 a crowbar and start cracking open splicer skulls. 
  
  There are a few characters that come to your aid and provide mission objectives via a handheld 
 radio. They suggest, and you soon realize on your own, that the best way to survive this hostile 
 environment is to genetically enhance yourself to stay alive, much like in Dues Ex. Enhancements 
 come in the form of "plasmids" and "tonics". Plasmids are active selectable abilities that allow 
 you to shoot lightening, fire and other abilities that can be used at the expense of a substance 
 called "eve" (works like manna) . Tonics are passive abilities that will aid in your survival and 
 provide defensive abilities, strength/offensive abilities, or hacking abilities for security cameras 
 and sentry bots. Both plasmids and tonics are limited to a number of available slots, which can 
 be increased as you progress through the game. 
  
  In addition to eve power-ups, the game introduces a substance called adam. Adam as a substance 
 that is contained in everyone, and works like stem cells on crack. The residents of rapture have 
 found a way to extract the substance and process it so it can be used genetically modify their 
 bodies. Little Sisters are possessed little girls who roam around each level and extract adam via 
 giant syringes from corpses. They then drink the adam and process it in their bodies. Adam is an 
 essential substance as it can be used at Gathers Garden vending machines to purchase plasmids and 
 tonics. Each little sister is protected by a big daddy, a hulking monstrous creature that is heavily 
 armored and makes for a very tough kill. After killing a big daddy the player is confronted with 
 the choice of either killing the girl and extracting all the adam from her (provides 160 adam) 
 or rescuing her from the little sister spell and setting her free (provides 80 adam) . Since the 
 number of little sisters per level is limited, the potential supply of adam is limited as well. 
 At the surface, this seems like a relatively easy decision to make as most of us video game players 
 have been desensitized to these sorts of moral/ethical dilemmas presented in videos games from 
 years of playing Grand Theft Auto. However, when first confronted with this decision the game promises 
 an undisclosed reward for sparing the little sisters lives. The player then needs to make a decision 
 of whether to satisfy the immediate need for adam in order to defeat enemies and progress through 
 the level or hold out and see what's behind door number two in hopes for an even better reward 
 for the future. 
  
  
  The game isn't all plasmids, tonics, adam and eve. Plasmids are complimented with more standard 
 weapons found in first person shooters, including a handgun, shotgun, machine gun, and grenade 
 launcher. Like in Dues Ex, weapons can be enhanced at upgrade stations. Enhancements include increased 
 damage, accuracy and clip size. The game also employs currency that can be found lying about or 
 off the carcasses of dispatched spicers. Currency can be used in vending machines to purchase ammo, 
 health and eve or used at first aid stations around the level. The game also allows you to hack 
 into security cameras, sentry bots, health stations, and vending machines. Hacking opens up a mini 
 puzzle game that can vary in difficultly from extremely easy to nearly impossible. Hacking tonics 
 can be used to make hacking a bit easier on you. The mini-game can be bypassed by using an autohack 
 devise or using a substantial amount of cash to buyout the machine.
  
  Ammo tends to be rather sparse and only so much can be carried at a time. Also most weapons allow 
 for different specialized ammo types (ex. anti-personnel verse anti-armor bullets) . It is important 
 for the player to select ammo types carefully as it hard to come by in the game. 
  
  As you progress through the game, you acquire more and more plasmids and tonics and you become 
 more reliant on them to get through the tough battles. When you get to this point, the game begins 
 to play a lot different from standard FPS and rather than engaging in firefights you find yourself 
 using your tonic abilities and plasmids combined with your environment to one-up your foe. This 
 makes for some interesting, unique, and intensely fun battles. 
  
  There are a few downsides, when you die you respawn nearby with no penalty and your enemies don't 
 regenerate or re-heal, even on hard difficulty. This takes a lot of the challenge out of the big 
 daddy fights since they don't re-heal. Like in most FPS, after some time the story seems like an 
 excuse to move you from one area to another and dispatch more and more enemies. Fortunately the 
 gameplay is fun enough and levels are varied enough that this isn't any detriment to the game.
 
  
  If you enjoyed Dues Ex, this game offers a similar experience, that works a bit better and isn't 
 as nearly as buggy. This is game definitely worth buying.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  BIOSHOCK is a deep & incerdible game that will not let you down till the end. The mix of RPG like 
 content shooter is fantastic and will keep u coming back for more. Sometimes i wish other games 
 were like this but this is different storyline that is more scientific than the rest and is set 
 in the 60s. The Bioshock guys pulled it off and made a brilliant and smart game. Why did I say 
 brilliant? Mostly because of the premise and story of the game and the many in game dialogues that 
 are just disturbing and thought provoking. 
  
  The RPG like part is a really smart move to keep the game entertaining. Instead of holding guns 
 till the end of the game, your body actually has a setup of pretty good arsenals called plasmids 
 that actually makes me wonder if this game was not supposed to be a RPG. The RPG like premise makes 
 the whole gameplay extremely good. Enemy AI is also pretty good and also scary. Some things in 
 the game will downright shock u in a good way and will make you laugh. Shooters in closed spaces 
 will always be linear but it is how the developer distracts you from it that truly warrants an 
 applause like BIOSHOCK. I love a game that give me lots to do than just run and gun. 
  
  Gameplay summary: 
  As a shooter (combat) : 9.5
  RPG elements: 8.5
  
  Nothing helps a game 
 better than the engine that runs it and how the developer uses the engine to tell the story. BIOSHOCK's 
 graphics are a wonder. I run this game with AMD64 X2 4200+, 2GB RAM, 7800GT and almost everything 
 is set to high and i still get good framerates. The only problem i have is the character presentation. 
 I feel like it should have been better. You have to play this game to really enjoy the underwater 
 atmosphere. Shadows, explosives, animations are no more static which makes it extremely fun.
  
  Graphics summary:
  Character Animation: 8.8
  Atmosphere: 9.4
  Whole graphics: 9.7
  
 
  The sound system is awesome and loud. I recommend playing this game with sound blaster Xfi with 
 EAX 5.0 enabled. I felt like i was underwater for sure. Dialogues and atmospheric sounds are em... 
 WOOWWW!!!!!! I always when a splicer is behind me...
  
  Sound summary:
  Dialogue: 9.5
  Combat: 9.5
  Atmospheric sound: 9.5
  
  Worth every penny and my time. I seriously recommend 
 this to anyone. Seriously check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_lilpyro_x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:59 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is one of the best games truely made. The graphics are awesome. The storyline is truely 
 unique & like no other game. The enimies are totally fair. Everything is great about this game. 
 Although it has been said that a big no-no was that there is no limit to dying ... who cares, I 
 think thats one of the main ups. Its a great game & totally worth playing. Not for kids though, 
 a little scarey at times & lots of blood, gore, & violence. Yet to the big gamers like myself, 
 it balances out the blood, etc ... On another note, I would have to say that its a little better 
 than the xbox 360 version, only because its easier to move & shoot. Also, the picture is much easier 
 to see if there is glare & its not like it gets too dark at points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomailx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Nice "fallout" touch (40's-50's settings) for the atmosphere.
  
  A perfect example of a game existing by its sound effects. Most players will be more thrilled by 
 what they hear in the game than the graphics which after a while will bore becoming so alike.
 
  
  Of course those graphics are superior to earlier games, and quiet intriguing. The makers of the 
 game deserves at least to be awarded by their innovative settings, even though it has already been 
 visited by black isle, long ago, they suceeded to revive the style years after in a differant way.
 
  
  Rapture (city in the deep ocean) is a great idea. best graphics, light effect, amazing water effects, 
 and weapons. Sure any rewiever will easily fall under the charm and overrate this game asap.
  
  But some players will after 2, or 3 hours gameplay realize that they keep killing "zombified 
 humans" and "big daddies" over and over again, and hacking robots once in a while for a change.
 
  
  The Quest system is so typical and basic that you could ask for a refund just because of it:
 
  In each level of the game, you have 3 items to find, which in some way will open a door to another 
 level. Of course the items change, and the way u need those items change, but its so cliche and 
 boring that, you may want stop playing quiet in the middle of the game.
  For any other game this would have been acceptable, but to spoil such a world with such lame quest 
 is un-acceptable. (repeat: city of 50's style under the sea, with amazing architecture) .
  
  But the worse part is not that. The city "rapture" you explore through out the game, even though 
 very well made, never gives you the feel that people lived their before. The places you visit give 
 you more the feel that there were adjascent rooms all over the place, with people just wandering 
 around.
  
  You start asking yourself? How those people lived? were they so few? if they were, why the city 
 is that big? who lived there?
  
  The protagonist, never talks in the game, so the story evolves by hearing "recorded diary tapes", 
 and some guys (good or bad) talking to you through a radio, making you wish to turn it off at the 
 very begining of the game.
  
  Bioshock should have been a very interesting game, if worked a little more on the story, and sourrendings, 
 as for on the encounters and characters.
  It should have been made as an RPG more than a FPS, but still it deserves a descent score just 
 for the idea which good parts balances well directive flaws... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorCream
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  If you have not yet slid into the starring role of 2K's masterpiece BioShock, my advice is to put 
 it on your Christmas list and get ready for a ride.
  
  This is one of the most immersive, unique, and innovative games ever created, dished up with the 
 perfect balance of exploration meets combat, all within an unpredictable story that will keep you 
 hanging until the end.
  
  This game has it all:
  
  - immersion
  - exceptional graphics
  - great combat system
  - challenges, puzzles, and unexpected twists
 
  - perfect length and superb value for money
  
  While fairly linear (in my opinion a needed compromise for master game crafters who deliver the 
 perfect story) , the world is open for back and forth travel, and even full-on "re-exploration". 
 A needed factor as this game has SO many hidden things that are likely to be missed, you almost 
 want to re-visit each area as you "complete" it, just to see what you can find that you overlooked 
 during the first round through.
  
  Alot of customization as well, and no two players will likely play it the same (greatly due to 
 the sheer number of unique traits you can "discover" during gameplay, and how ultimately some will 
 find those that others will not) .
  
  Will you be tech-based - relying on turrets, flying machine guns, and your capability to adapt 
 the environment? Maybe you prefer harnessing the perpetual bodyguard option, which opens up your 
 own personal escort of the nearest "Big Daddy"? Possibly melee based with a super powered wrench? 
 Then of course there is always the all-out firepower option...
  
  This is a great game, and it is clear from the first five minutes that it offers something special 
 and unique to FPS lovers around the world.
  
  Definitely one of my personal favorites. 
  
  My guess is that for most Bioshock lovers, give it 12 months and the title will call them back 
 - much in the way the Half-Life 2 game still does to us diehards. And chances are - the gameplay 
 and path chose will offer a varied and new path not previously discovered....
  
  
  - Doctor Cream
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsday
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  Most of the time, I enjoy playing games. I mean - I wouldn't play them if I didn't enjoy them right? 
 I like what I'm doing, take note of the story, and keep shooting/click and dragging/point and clicking.
 
  
  The range of emotions that I experience go from frustration at an overly difficult, or poorly executed 
 game, to amusement, or mild happiness as I get that +5 suit of platemail that finally allows me 
 to kill Mr. Bad Ass boss guy.
  
  It has been a LONG time since I have felt an emotional attachment to a game or the storyline of 
 a game. And yes, Bioshock was what did it for me.
  
  This game sucks you in big time. From the opening scene when you first realise that you are not 
 watching a cutscene, but actually have control over your character, through to the end of the game, 
 you cannot separate the gameplay from the storyline, which is how I treat almost all games I play.
 
  
  The game revolves around your attempts to get rescued after a plane you were in crashes into the 
 ocean. You end up in a modern day atlantis. A city of the future.. however things have been going 
 wrong there for a long time.
  
  Without giving anything away, the bad guys are the smartest I have faced in a long time. The RPG 
 elements of the game were excellent, in how you could upgrade your skills and complete the game 
 a number of ways. The moral choices you made in the game actually had a very real effect on the 
 outcome.
  
  Finally, there were two parts of the game that will stay with me for a very long time. The first 
 "little girl" you encounter, and the end of the game. Two of the best moments I have had in my 
 gaming life.
  
  I hope you enjoy it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeus_XP
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I may not be the bigest FPS fan, but I enjoyed very much this game. You don't have the chance every 
 day to see a under ocean city, not even in the movies, where the story is much more important. 
 It's true : a video game story doesn't have to be at the same level with a movie story (or should? 
 ...:-s) .
  In essence , Bioshock is a FPS with little RPG parts. Here I could remember the plasmids and tonics. 
 It's not much for sure, and maybe it would have been better that stuff not to be in the game, when 
 the producers told us almost 2 years ago that Bioshock will be a under water RPG. Just imagine 
 what RPG we would have by putting the Gothic caracthers in Bioshock World, with a Half Life gameplay.
 
  But it's not that way. In Bioshock you'll have to shoot very speedy mdfkers splicers: peoples 
 who had lived in Rapture, but because of exces of ADAM they became a shadow of theirself. It's 
 preety impresive to see such a great city which became a ruine just because of humans.
  The few caracters in game are all crazy: Andrew Ryan believe he's some kind of God (and maybe he's 
 right.. aftef all he built Rapture) ; we have a crazy artist, with one of the best games scenes ever 
 (by me) . But we have the litte girls to save , or kill. it's up to you. That's all about in Bioshock: 
 be crazy yourself and try to save the Rapture, or fallow your ego and kill them. 
  Can you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazingEternity
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  If you were to ask 100 avid FPS gamers to list their favorite shooters from the past decade or 
 so, there is one series of FPS that probably won't feature as much as it should - System Shock. 
 Despite being an excellent RPG/FPS hybrid, unfortunately System Shock just never truly found its 
 potential marketing wise, coming up short against the heavy weights such as Doom, Quake and Half 
 Life across the life span of its two releases. After being acquired by Take-Two Interactive in 
 early 2006, Irrational Games, developers of the excellent System Shock 2, set about taking the 
 FPS/RPG genre by storm once and for all with a title known as BioShock, which is claimed as the 
 "spiritual successor" to the System Shock series. Despite this hefty benchmark and the hype that 
 surrounded this title pre-release, it is safe to say Irrational Games, or 2K Boston/Australia are 
 they are now known, have finally found their place in the sun with BioShock.
  
  First and foremost, unlike most FPS/shooting games these days, it must be made clear that BioShock 
 is a single player only experience. This is a questionable decision by 2K as it obviously puts 
 immense pressure on the single player story mode not to mention throws out a freebie way to enhance 
 the game's replay value, but it won't take long into the game's spectacular single player experience 
 for you to forgot all about this omission, as you find yourself completely engrossed into the world 
 that is 'The Rapture'.
  
  The Rapture at first is not a very clear entity to understand. Is it a place? is it a belief? is 
 it an economic and social system? In many ways, it is all of these. The Rapture itself is an underground 
 city created by self proclaimed genius Andrew Ryan to escape the Capitalist, Communist and Religious 
 ways of the above ground world, creating a way of life and social structure that truly frees man 
 to live life and excel. Well, that was the theory anyway, because as you'd expect in such an ambitious 
 project, The Rapture is not all that it's cracked up to be, and things start to make a turn for 
 the worst.
  
  Set in the late 1950's after a plane crash in the open sea, your character survives the impact 
 but finds himself gasping for air and dodging the flaming remains of the downed flight. As you 
 make your way through the rubble in the water, you spot a mysterious tall and skinny building like 
 structure in the distance planted on a minutely sized island barely wider than the tower itself. 
 With nothing but destruction and open deadly sea behind, you move forward and enter the structure, 
 curiously poking around as you descend into the earth and find what seems to be a pod. You enter, 
 pull down on the only lever you see, and begin your journey deep under water into the world of 
 The Rapure, only your arrival couldn't have come at a worse time.
  
  The Rapture is in chaos as you arrive, although you're not initially privy as to why, and the game 
 does a good job of creating and maintaining the expected confusion at the start of the game as 
 you are abruptly introduced to this self destructing underwater world. However, the mystery does 
 not last for long, as you team up with a citizen separated from his family via radio link, and 
 start to uncover the secrets and factors at play behind The Rapture's troubling times. While I 
 don't want to delve too deeply and spoil any part of the storyline, the major force behind the 
 fall of this world comes from one source - 'Plasmids'.
  
  Delivered to the body in the form of a large syringe, plasmids are basically 'insta-powerups' allowing 
 you to do things you definitely wouldn't otherwise be able to do, such as launch fire at an enemy, 
 use telekinesis to throw objects around a room, temporarily freeze enemies in their tracks, or 
 make enemies mad with rage so they attack one of their own while you spectate safely from a distance, 
 to name but a few. It isn't hard to imagine a society gone crazy with powers such as these, is 
 it? In any case, to survive in this world you must fight fire with fire and experiment with the 
 plasmids yourself, granting you these and many more abilities. Your repertoire of powers develop 
 over time and you largely have a choice over which powers you possess and which you're best at, 
 although this isn't done in a traditional RPG sense based on experience, but rather through a direct 
 control method with a slight tweak - rather than just letting you pause the game and access a menu 
 to acquire new powers or rearrange your accessible powers, you must interact with carnival like 
 themed machines within the world of BioShock to control most of the RPG elements in this game, 
 such as the "Gatherer Garden" to acquire more plasmid slots and other goodies, the "Gene Back" 
 to change which powers and abilities you are currently equipped with, and more, all of which are 
 a nice touch that help to keep the game's atmosphere that much more authentic.
  
  To say these plasmids influence the way you play BioShock is a massive understatement - in fact, 
 after finishing this game, you'll probably wonder how other FPS games manage without them. While 
 some powers such as the telekinesis can be seen in other games in the form of "gravity guns" and 
 the likes, the amount of unique powers you can obtain in this game and their influence on how you 
 play it is astounding. Maybe you want a freeze an enemy and then smash him to bits with your wrench? 
 You can do that. Maybe you want to electrocute a bunch of baddies as they step over a pool of water? 
 Easy as pie. Maybe you just want to launch a gas cylinder at someone? Sure, why not. Then you can 
 use that enemy's dead body to launch at someone else. There are even a few remote based powers 
 as well, such as the ability to launch a ball of contamination at an enemy that makes them vulnerable 
 to gun turrets and security bots/cameras, or, as mentioned above, the ability to temporarily instill 
 blind rage within an enemy who then proceeds to attack the closest person. The amount of ways to 
 tackle any given situation in this game is amazing and definitely the strength of the gameplay.
 
  
  Outside of the plasmids, there are more RPG elements to this game, and these come under the label 
 'Gene Tonics'. These upgrades come as either physical related to enhance your strength, engineering 
 related to enhance your ability to deal with security and other systems, and combat related to 
 enhance your fighting skills. Gene Tonics are much like plasmids in the way they can be acquired 
 and in the way you can change which are active, but they are definitely much more secondary in 
 nature, as they are not powers you can simply call upon any time you want, but rather minor upgrades 
 that are always active when equipped. Never the less, secondary or not, they're just another part 
 of BioShock that enhance the gameplay experience and grant control over strengths and weaknesses 
 to the user, although when you look at the big picture, the way in which RPG fundamentals have 
 been implemented in this game are probably not evident enough to bring up the RPG/FPS genre tag 
 - it is definitely more of a shooter/action title with some RPG elements sprinkled on top.
  
  One major difference between the gene tonics and plasmids is only the plasmids have a life 
 force, which is known as 'EVE' and, as such, you must be careful not to overuse them or you might 
 find yourself stranded without effective ways to defend yourself. You will usually find enough 
 EVE laying around however, particularly if you make sure to search every object you come across 
 like desks and shelves or if you make sure to visit vending machines regularly, so supply for your 
 powers is not often a huge concern. On the other hand though, ammo for your guns very often is 
 an issue - in fact, most times you'll be lucky to have 10 rounds in any given gun. What this does 
 is it creates a very stringent feel to the gameplay that almost forces you to get friendly with 
 your plasmid based powers, which really enhances the combat experience, forcing the creative juices 
 to start flowing, particularly when you have more enemies in front of you than bullet rounds.
 
  
  The guns on offer themselves are not overly surprising featuring the usual classics like a handgun, 
 shotgun, machine gun etc, but where BioShock impresses here is with the depth in customization. 
 Each weapon usually has a few possible ammo types each of which have their own strengths and weaknesses, 
 such as the anti-personnel handgun rounds which work great against people enemies, but not so great 
 against well armored enemies, which tend to be more effectively defeated using the armor piercing 
 rounds, or better yet, some sort of explosive in your grenade launcher. On top of the large array 
 of ammo types, guns can also be upgraded whenever you come across a "Power to the People" machine, 
 enhancing everything from accuracy and damage to clip size and recoil, which is just another one 
 of BioShock's handy little customization options.
  
  When you combine the plasmid and basic weapon systems, the end result is combat gameplay that is 
 truly unique, and that is saying something in this day and age of FPS gaming, where originality 
 seemed like a thing of the past. BioShock was touted as a game where no two gamers would have the 
 same exact experience, and while at times it seems the game does try to subtly suggest ways to 
 tackle situations and hence I imagine a few solutions are much more popular than others, this randomness 
 remains largely true. What's best is, thanks to the aforementioned ammo issues and the control 
 over your powers, getting out of some situations really does require some serious thinking, and 
 thanks to the quick save and load functions, you can feel free to take a lot of risks where as 
 in a checkpoint save system, you may have been far more conservative. In my opinion, this was a 
 great design decision as it unlocks much of the game's potential as long as you actively try to 
 push the boundaries.
  
  The gameplay in BioShock, however, is definitely not perfect. It's close, but there are still a 
 few areas where the game doesn't quite excel as much as you'd hope, the first of which is enemy 
 AI. While the game is definitely a challenge in more ways than one on the medium and hard difficulty 
 settings, it does not exactly feature the brightest baddies you'll see in a shooter. I can't really 
 pinpoint any specific area where the AI is lacking per se, but during a normal gaming session, 
 you may witness oddities such as robotic reactions, field of view inconsistencies, and general 
 behaviour quirkiness that doesn't quite live up to the game's otherwise authentic feel. This isn't 
 a huge issue at all, in fact in some cases the AI is pretty good such as when hurt enemies will 
 look around for health packs or stations to use, but don't expect an overly intelligent battle 
 with most of your enemies, as they tend to rely more on numbers and power than smarts.
  
  This leads to another issue with the enemies - their lack of variation. From start to finish, you're 
 really only shooting the same types of baddies and this can start to wear a little thin, particularly 
 when they continuously use the same sort of attacks over and over again that can create a pattern 
 feel to the combat. Perhaps even more disappointing though is the enemies in this game never seem 
 to throw your medicine back at you - i. e. they never seem to use many plasmid abilities of their 
 own. Considering the plasmid powers in this game are regularly touted as highly accessible for 
 anyone - hell, that's the reason why The Rapture has taken a turn for the worse in the first place 
 - it seems quite odd you don't go up against enemies who can use your same abilities. While some 
 of these abilities obviously wouldn't translate very well from a gamer-friendly gameplay standpoint 
 (like being frozen and then smashed for a quick game over) , it's still a bit of a let down enemies 
 couldn't be a bit more dynamic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacopper
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I have 3 words for this game: W O W!!!!!! ... and many-many-many exclamation marks. This is probably 
 the only FPS game with such a deep and twisted plot that spitting some bad guys' blood is not the 
 only thing that makes your sicko little mind wanting to continue playing it. Did I mention it was 
 twisted? if little girls with huge needles that look like a gas pump handle that stick them into 
 dead bodies is not twisted enough for you, then it's time for a visit to your local friendly psychiatrist. 
 Trust me, you won't regret this game, I've played'em all and this is the best so far! ... that is 
 until November 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is a game that deserves everyone's attention. Everybody knows the story of the game-you 
 are a guy survived after plane crash in the middle of the Atlantic ocean, suspiciously near to a 
 light house 8D. You enter into an underwater city called Rapchure, created by Andrew Ryan. The city 
 is completely free from religions, or government, but something has gone wrong... veeeeery wrong. The 
 city has been built in 1940, but you enter in 1960. There are 4-5 VIPs, you... and the splicers. There 
 are also big golems walking with little girls (Big Daddy, or Rosie with Little Sister) ... very weird 
 combination isn't it. Actually these girls are very important, you receive the substance called "Adam" 
 from them. It give's you special powers like shooting fire out of your arm, or ice, bees, wind... There 
 is also Tonix... The Tonix-skills are more passive, they give you  
 there are of course the machines that sell you ammo, medpacks and evepacks. Even on the hardest difficulty 
 the game is very easy because you are immortal. If you die you will be resurrected from a chamber 
 (it everywhere in the level) with all your guns, skills, ammo and full health. On the other hand Bioshock 
 is a standart FPS. There are  graphic is very cool, everything 
 is drawn into this Art-Decko style. The sound effects are mostly creepy. The game is dark and also 
 becomes very fun at time. And of course I recommend to anyone to take a look the mystery of Bioshock 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CattiJack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock.
  
  What can I say, I'll say what I first said.
  Go out and buy it now.
  I'll see you in a week.
  
  STORY - (SPOIL FREE!)
  
  You have survived a plane crash in the 
 middle of an ocean near a Watch Tower dead center near you in the water.
  It takes you miles down, and down into the ocean revealing the city of Rapture.
  
  The underwater 
 gem of the sea.
  A whole city and planet of its own.
  Destroyed, ravaged, controlled by a madman lusting for change.
  And filled with people just craving 
 what they want most.
  
  You find a radio, Atlas is at the other end instructing you what to do after you encounter the 
 dangers of this city.
  He is your "Cortana"
  Your guide for the game.
  This is where your Journey begins.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  It is completely balanced as a FPS.
 
  It isnt just a run and gun where you blast the bejesus out of everything.
  Your character inherits powers called Plasmids.
  You get different Plasmids that do different 
 things.
  
  You dont just shoot everything, you must utilize your plasmids while they sing along with your 
 weapons as you fight your way through.
  
  EXAMPLE
  
  Load of the Electro-Bolt as 1000volts of electricity flows through your veins.
  Fire it out of 
 your hand, electrocuting a poor splicer.
  Then take your wrench and smack him right in the face while he shakes helplesslely.
  
  
  
 Sound and Track
  
  The music, the voice acting, there perfect.
  They help tell the story wonderfully.
  The voice acting feels so real, and it totally just sucks 
 you in.
  
  BOTTOM LINE
  Everything blended together makes an awesome game.
  
  Some points in the game just made my jaw drop in disbelief.
  Thats how good it is.
  
  Buy 
 it.
  I'll see you in a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hongky
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  2K studio has done it! BioShock is so well created that I can almost see the artists' blood and 
 sweat from the beautifully rendered environments and atmosphere in the world of Rupture. I can 
 almost feel that I am really brought back to the 1950's. Everything in Rupture is so oldies and 
 yet so innovative and "modern". The world of Rupture is so well created that it is so totally immersive 
 for the player. The story is well written and the music and sound effects, coupled with all the 
 "eye-candy" never fails to send chills down my spine and make my hair stand everytime a "splicers" 
 jumps out! A great game with a very special setting and very innovative combat system making use 
 of the "plasmids" to complement the normal guns and explosives. You must play this game. Highly 
 recommended! Definitely a 5-stars super game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fix86
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  My god man! 
  I was too impressive the first time i played Bioshock... really nice looking...
  Another game 
 are just "click and kill"... this one is totally different, just got a substance of RPG and Puzzle 
 parts, and is great!
  The history is too great... the powers, upgrades, weapons are interesting and cool... the best 
 think is you can do your work on the game of different ways... and use the environment for kill, 
 look thinks, etc...
  "just electrifies the water and see how the splicer is coked like the hell!" or "just freeze em 
 up", is your choice! hahaha!
  
  Has a optimized engine and graphics... im running with a amd x2 4200, 2gb 667 mhz and 8600gt at 
 1024x768 on high and runs great ;)
  
  What are you waiting for!!!??? just get the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StupidFox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Rapture. Freedom. A city below the sea. A benevolent dictator. Important little girls escorted 
 by monstrosities in diving suits. Genetic splicing. Civil war. Disaster.
  
  Good news. You're stranded here.
  
  I've never described a game as a masterpiece. Something 
 about the word implies artwork. While I've taken the position that games are "works of art," I've 
 never fully believed it. Works of art are something to be taken in, appreciated, and loved. Games 
 are traditionally basic pleasures. You are given a task and flashy graphics and you get a sense 
 of accomplishment out of them.
  
  Bioshock is a masterpiece, and a game I'll never forget. Complete immersion and artistic appeal 
 is something that games aspire to but rarely reach, due to the limitations of game-making or submission 
 to the "fact" that games are not "art."
  
  The beginning is as scary as Hell, and the first few levels feel difficult. You might not quite 
 get what Bioshock is trying to do at first, but give it just a little time. The game is about 20 
 hours long, so you might be able to beat it in a week by renting it. I encourage this if you can, 
 since there's no multiplayer and you had might as well just look up the other of the two endings 
 on Youtube. If, however, you really want to try using a different set of power-ups on your character 
 (there are a good number of power-ups, and my friend and I ended up employing completely different 
 strategies in playing through the game. I'm a straight-up shotgun guy, and he's a stealthy-wrench-basher 
 guy) there is a good amount of replay value.
  
  The game mechanics are nearly flawless. Movements are fluid, the options are very helpful, the 
 hints are there but not obstructive or overly pushy, and you always know exactly what you're doing. 
 There is a good variety of weapons and powers. My only complaint is that the weapons and powers 
 are somewhat weak at long distances, and the zoom function sucks, but thankfully, you rarely do 
 any long-distance fighting in an underwater city. While the vita-chambers provide consequence-free 
 resurrection should you die, you can simply voluntarily reload your game should you desire a pure 
 gaming experience. I prefer this, and I have to say that completely ignoring the vita-chambers 
 took nothing away from the experience. If you feel like you need the help, though, don't feel bad 
 about using them.
  
  The story is great, but it's not perfect. There are a couple of questions that are never answered, 
 even though they seem like major details. Also, there are one or two cliches thrown in there. Also, 
 as Zero Punctuation helpfully points out, the two endings are very polarized (good and bad) . The 
 voice acting, however, is completely top-notch, which is good since there are tapes that you listen 
 to scattered throughout the city. This, along with mostly smooth character animations and excellent 
 delivery of the story, makes Bioshock shine like a star.
  
  The graphics are somewhat cartoony, but they completely support the atmosphere and the 50's feel. 
 The ads scattered throughout the game are hilarious and well-made. You'd swear each one was an 
 authentic antique.
  
  The sound is excellent, and the sound effects are always helpful to knowing what's going on around 
 you. The inclusion of 50's and earlier music tops off the atmosphere. For example, a radio plays 
 "Danny Boy" (the Irish song) at just the right moment in the game. Great stuff.
  
  As for overall criticisms, sometimes the sense of urgency that the game employs makes you more 
 frustrated than scared, especially in the level "Olympus Heights." Also, escort missions are pretty 
 annoying, and they just HAD to put one in right toward the end.
  
  I guess I've said enough. This game is a work of art. If you choose to buy it, after you finish 
 it, frame the disk, the box, and the manual and hang it on your wall. It deserves it. It's incredible.
 
  
  So, here's my wrapup:
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Story: 10
  Sound: 10
  Graphics: 10
  Value: 9
  Overall fun: 9.5
  
  Overall, 9.7/10. I'm listing it as a 9.5 on Gamespot's horrible 
 new rating system.
  
  I hope you enjoy it as much as I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neloy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  The first thing that caught my attention is the reflection of the moonlight in the water. Although 
 I have a DirectX9 card, the graphics is still outstanding. I am ust wondering how the game will 
 look in DirectX10. The game has a very deep storyline and three endings depending on how your character 
 progress so the replay value is high. The concept of bringing the 1940s-50s culture is a sweet 
 move. Sound is outstanding. However the game is not challenging as the character respawns everytime 
 he dies and there is no penalties to suffer. The dialogs are well made. The best part of the game 
 is the A. I. The enemies will tend to go to the healing station if they are low in health. the player 
 needs to use the features in the environment, hack hostile system for his/her benefit. Overall 
 it has great variation. It a worth game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboywayne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Boishock is a huge game! It kept me going for over a month, playing around 2 hours a day. I love 
 the save system, and how you never lose you progress (except if you quit the game and don't save) . 
 With insane graphic and great game play makes Boishock an impressive action game. The story is 
 very well told through a Doom 3 style of radio contacts and recordings. You'll need a heavy-height 
 system to run the game on hight setting. My specs are as follows: CPU - Duo Core 1.86ghz, GPU - 
 7950 gt oc, with 2 gb of ram. I ran the game on high with a reasonable 20+ fps. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesaxmaniac
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I would really love to give Bioshock a ten. The game's visuals are fantastic, the story is one 
 of the best in any game ever, and I thoroughly enjoyed almost everything the game had to offer. 
 Unfortunately, a few major flaws hold me back from giving the game a perfect score. 
  I will start with the basic flaw. The game is horribly easy. I played it on the medium difficulty 
 and died a total of two times throughout the whole game. You practically have money, weapons, health, 
 and eve shoved in your face around every corner. Towards the end of the game, I felt like I was 
 invincible. The last few levels were a breeze, because I had so much ammo for every weapon and 
 I never ran out of money/eve/health. I don't know how hard the highest difficulty setting is, but 
 if this is medium, than the hard mode is probably the equivalent of the "easy" mode in most other 
 shooters. Yes, it is that easy. 
  Next, I will go on to the fact that this game is not an RPG. You have a sort of tree of level-ups 
 for your plasmids and tonics, but you have five slots, and you can max out with the best in each 
 very easily. Adam is never in short supply and neither is money. It felt like every other shooter, 
 but you had a limit to what you could carry. Bioshock is a wannabe RPG. Thats it. 
  Now Bioshock claimed to be "non-linear," but this basically boils down to get from point A to point 
 B in a somewhat non-linear fashion. Kill a big daddy how you want, but you have to kill a certain 
 amount per level. When you are done with that, go to point B. Refresh and start over for the next 
 level. It gets repetitive. Also, the whole idea of "create your own ammo/weapons" is bogus. You 
 have three types of ammo per weapon, and each weapon can be upgraded twice. Period. You can create 
 explosive buck and electric buck for the shotgun, and that's it. If you want to mix electricity 
 with fire and use that on the crossbow, this is not the game for you. The expansiveness of the 
 weapons is still better than almost every other shooter out there, but it is still limited. It's 
 not a big problem, but it is definitely disappointing.
  If you were planning on getting the PC version, I would recommend that you reconsider. I have a 
 very high end PC and I ran the game at max resolution with the DX10 settings. It looks fantastic. 
 The problem is, this game is bug ridden. The minor bugs don't bother me too much, like the convulsing 
 body parts and other weird bugs. The main and most frustrating problems I encountered were with 
 the sound. This is a problem plaguing almost everyone with Vista. The sound just doesn't work properly. 
 Shoot a big daddy and about ninety percent of the time, you won't hear the gunshot. This goes for 
 all of the game's sounds. They are scattered and random in Vista. Fortunately for me, I have a 
 dual-boot set-up, so I quickly transfered my save games to the XP partition and installed the game. 
 Now unfortunately for me, this only solved part of the problem. """SPOILER ALERT""": Later in the 
 game, when you get the big daddy suit, the sound problems start up again. The problem arises when 
 you walk. For some reason, the boot sounds affect all of the other sound effects. Example: when 
 you walk, you will hear the boots, but most other sounds will be completely gone. Gunshots, screams, 
 you name it. """END OF SPOILER""" I have done my research, and this is not an isolated case. Neither 
 is the vista sound problem. 
  Ok, so for all of this ranting, you would expect a lower score than a nine right? Well, it turns 
 out that even for it's numerous flaws, the game is extremely fun. Zapping a splicer, and then whacking 
 him/her with a wrench never gets old. Neither does explosive buckshot. Overall, Bioshock is one 
 of the best experiences in gaming history, and It would be perfect if a few things were thought 
 out a little more by the developers. Hopefully they will fix these problems in the inevitable Bioshock 
 sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepwninator
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  While it may not be the best game ever made or have amazing multiplayer (or any multiplayer, for 
 that matter) , this game is one of the best titles out for this generation (at the time of writing: 
 11/12/07) . However, this is not one of the many games that you can play for weeks on end without 
 it starting to get somewhat boring or repetitive. 
  
  By the same token, though, I see it as becoming somewhat like Deus Ex (my favorite non-RTS ever) 
 in that it will be a game that can be picked up even a decade later and enjoyed significantly. 
 Its story, though easy to follow, has many nuances that will necessitate replaying the game, while 
 the gameplay is deep and enjoyable, facilitating said replay.
  
  While it may only suck you in for fifteen hours at a time, you will be very glad that you obtained 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvdre
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a fan of shooters ... I am more into the RPGs like Neverwinter and Oblivion. I decided 
 to play Bioshock based on the great reviews and the comparisons to 'System Shock 2,' a shooter 
 I liked with a lot of RPG elements. Bioshock also has some RGP progressions, and that means you 
 can play the game in a style you like. Well, it means you can either freeze, burn or shock your 
 enemies, and then hit them with pistol fire, shotgun, machine gun, etc. Sometimes you will use 
 all of the above. The game is very clever and the plot has some nice twists. The graphics are awesome, 
 and I had no technical problems on my Vista machine with an Nvidia GS 7600 video card. Gameplay 
 is extremely linear. You will head exactly where you are told, and many times an arrow will be 
 pointing you. There are many points in the game I felt actual 'fear' ... which is a pretty high 
 compliment to any game. The negatives are that the gameplay gets repetitive and somewhat manipulative. 
 In a crucial scene in the game - I won't spoil it - the game camera takes over and you get no choice 
 in what ensues. Yes, that drives the game forward, but that is a mortal sin for any RPGer. Scratch 
 a star for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yephoe
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Before I bought Bioshock, I had read a number of reviews, and in honesty was a bit sceptical as 
 to whether it's worth its money. But now that I'm almost through with it, I must say that it provided 
 it's money worth of entertainment.
  
  True - combat is relatively easy (in particular with the Vita chambers) compared to other games, 
 the RP elements are limited, and there are only a limited number of enemy types.
  
  But these individual 'weaknesses' are overcome by the qualities of the whole package - how the 
 elements are combined, the eerie scenery and the plot itself.
  
  It also means that even a casual gamer (who doesn't have superior hand-eye coordination nor the 
 time to 'beat' a FPS game in numerous retries) can actually play through the game and finish it 
 while having a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leach112
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Let's start with the positives Bioshock looks not only incredible, but its visual sttyle is very 
 unique and I applaud 2k for having the courage to set this dystopian city in a post-war setting 
 rather than translating it into the obligatory futuristic city. Every level is different, all fantasically 
 lit and despite the predominance of shadow in the game you never feel the need to reach for a flashlight 
 as in other games which abuse this lack of lighting.
  The story is also well paced, played out well through the audio logs and communications you receive 
 while the sound is pretty much perfect, with the shrill cries of the splicers; 'we can hear you, 
 you know!' sending a shiver up my spine.
  However I guess my disappointment with this game stems largely from claims that this would be the 
 spiritual successor to System Shock 2. This game was itself criticised for having a lack of commitment 
 to its rpg elements, where as Bioshock goes further and almost completely abandons them. Throughout 
 the game you will pick up plasmids (giving you abilities such as freezing enemies) and tonics (which 
 alter physical attributes) . However with no actual stats for your character it is not obvious how 
 much of a difference many of these tonics to your character, while plasmids, though fun to use, 
 can be freely switched at many points in the game. Although some people may view this a positive, 
 allowing you to try out every approach easily, for me it left little replayability in the game.
 
  This game is also very easy and this in addition to the lack of rpg elements have led me to wonder 
 if this game was dumbed down due to its availability on the xbox. During my first run through in 
 normal I never really used any other weapons than the wrench, pistol and shotgun, for which I ended 
 up with an abundance of ammunition. Combat is overtly simple, I mean it is enjoyable to freeze 
 an enemy and shatter him into pieces but you can do this throughout the entire game easily. Why 
 aren't there any enemies who can't be frozen for example?
  My final gripe is that 2k have not only produced a game which people with vista will have problems 
 running, but have as yet produced no patch in an attempt to fix either the sound problems or the 
 lack of widescreen many people experience.
  Having said all this and despite the negative points, this is a superbly immersive, beautiful game 
 and despite it's disappointing simplicity is a very worthy purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrisi17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is a FPS game that uses RPG elements to give you choice throughout the game, with a immersive 
 story to bring everything together. Starting off in a plane wreck, you find yourself in a underwater 
 palace guided by Atlas, a predominent figure in the city of Rapture. The game introduces you to 
 many of its different areas throughout the city, all of which are run down and packed with the 
 one time citizens, now considered 'splicers' for their overusage of plasmids whch led them to turn 
 evil. These splicers will be you oponent although unlike many FPS games, they are not just acting 
 against you, but it is apparant that they are protecting the city they call home from outsiders. 
 
  
  One of the best feaures of Bioshock are the big daddies, there are several varieties of them and 
 killing one is not routine, but more of a chore (not in a bad sense) Big Daddies protect little 
 sisters that roam the halls of rapture in search of Adam, the currency the plasmids. 
  
  Rapture, the city of Bioshock, does not seem like a dreampt up world, but more like a true paradise 
 gone wrong. Although the world is not done perfectly, most of it is believeable and all of it is 
 able to be explored. 
  
  Bioshock looks great, runs great, and most importantly feels great with a story that wants to be 
 told, you just need the patience to listen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andreicucuiet
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 3:42 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is one of the best games ever.
  It's game, no a world that realy has personality.
  The enemies that you encounter are damn cool but very scary. They talk, wandering around and if 
 they find you.... You got to be ready to fight an enemy that doesn't run like crazy towards you (whith 
 the exception of the splicers thugs) . Wel i'm gonna tel some what they do.
  
  Thugs
  Crazy mutations that come to you swinging their weapons (wreanch pipes etc) . They fall down easy 
 but sometimes there are a lot of them. And they atack you from every direction. But hey, thats why 
 you have the machine gun and anti-personel bulets right?
  
  Houdini's
  Wel the name is a little weird but they are some kind of magicians. But they use plasmids. They not 
 come in groups but they can be anoing because they can teleport behind you and then atack you.
 
  
  Lead heads
  These splicers atack you whith guns. Pistol and machine guns later on the game. As you can see they 
 are considered the "heads" of the groupes that there are in. And they look realy cool.
  
  ps
  THE GAME CAN GET REAAAAAAALY CREAPY SOMETIMES  
::::::

::::::
UserName: solartiger
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Admit it, we've all played those "run & gun" FPS's, but BioShock makes you take your time and THINK... Quite 
 possibly the most gorgeous game I've ever played (love the art deco/steam punk feel) , with a dose 
 of Ayn Rand thrown in for good measure, this game had me stopping just to soak in the lush environment... I 
 thought the game to be very immersive and atmospheric. A lot has been made in other reviews about 
 the weak FPS aspect of the game but I found it to be just right. I have abandoned games in the 
 past that were too difficult (or I was too weak to play) but I think every fan of the genre should 
 play this game. I believe this title will cause a ripple in the way future FPS and gaming in general 
 will be designed... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIOShazard
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Well.. Bioshock is a game that comes around once in a gen. Even on the PC, it has to have the gaming 
 prowess of the Nintendo Franchise, the graphics of the Sony Franchise, and the Overall, Finger-licking 
 goodness of the Microsoft Franchise. It deseves to be on every system, with a 20/10.
  
  Graphics: This is a bump in the road. Generally good, with the great designs of each enemy, corpse, 
 and overall items. But to some people (Which I am a part of) , their copy has some graphic problems 
 when they start their actual game with the guns and plazmids.. anyways, great graphics. Other then 
 that one glitch with the blurred in graphic at the point where you start the game and enter a game, 
 its a perfect 10
  
  Music: With the awesome soundtracks of this game, it might be hard to describe, but I'll try. With 
 music that is put into the situation, some games might have music that sounds like your puppy has 
 died, but this games music sounds like a good music to kill off some hyped up, drug dealers. I 
 just might want to go to Rapture. 9.9, because I sometimes can't even hear it... might be a sound 
 problem, but still...
  
  Gameplay: This is one of those games that makes you wonder, "When will those lazy [insert company 
 name here] make Bioshock2?" Well.. It's a possibility, and I am too one of those people who wants 
 those dang programers to do that second game. With the awesome weapons, powers, and enemys, I give 
 it a 10/10
  
  Overall: ... Must I say more? 10/10 for sure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mogzsnet
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  I've been stoked for Bioshock since I first saw it appear on Gamespot. The graphics, story, mechanics, 
 everything appealed to me on a level that not many games do these days. Bioshock is an amazing 
 game; the graphics are top notch, the atmosphere is stunning, the weapons, while run of the mill, 
 have a certain flair to them, and most importantly, the game strikes a perfect balance between 
 suspense and heart pumping action. I'm sure you can all, at this point, sense a but coming. And 
 here it is. While Bioshock is indeed a great many things, there is one thing it isn't; debugged 
 properly. Ever since the release I've been hearing horror stories about the game not loading, crashing 
 on a whim, locking up, and frankly I was a concerned. I managed to get the game installed and running, 
 and my breath stuck in my chest when my character kicked his way to the surface after his plane 
 thundered in. I was awestruck by the stunning scene of burning jet fuel and a sinking fuselage. 
 From that point on the game went great, until I tried to loot a corpse and the game promptly crashed 
 to the desktop. My eye twitched as I stared at my Red vs Blue background, a tear forming but refusing 
 to run. I checked Google and found out it was a glitch when trying to loot cash. No big deal. I 
 found a trainer, gave myself some cash, and refused to loot corpses containing money Not a great 
 situation, but workable. I played on for a while, loving everything about it. Taking on big daddy's 
 in adrenaline pumping show downs. Being ambushed in a steam-filled room by slicers who appear out 
 of the mist. Getting drawn further in to the story behind rapture and ADAM and EVE . Things were 
 going great, until I tried to cross in to Arcadia. Then wham, another desktop crash. This one more 
 fatal. It's been a week now since I played Bioshock, and not by any choice of my own. There exists 
 a massive bug in the game, that causes it to crash upon any attempt to enter Arcadia. This doesn't 
 happen to everyone, it's more a software install version of Russian Roulette . But enough people 
 are plagued by this bug to cause the 2K forums to be infested with those begging for help, a patch, 
 anything. So far no patch has been released, and the solutions only work for a handful of lucky 
 people. There has yet to be a common one to fix the issue for all. So now I sit here, sans Bioshock, 
 wishing I could return to rapture to find out what happens to Atlas, see what the deal with Andrew 
 Ryan is, and continue to thrash big daddy's in order to abscond with ADAM from little sisters . 
 The game is great, an instant favorite of mine, I just wish I could complete it. Someday perhaps. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadmanwaltzin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  BioShock is a let down. Beautiful graphics but sub-standard play. The plasmids are unoriginal. 
 The roaming 'bosses' are just badder guys. Skill is not a requirement.
  
  Worse yet BioShock install SecuRom on our systems. It does not tell you that it will do so. Further 
 more uninstall the game does not remove it. I have heard from a prominant lawyer that such an act 
 is illegal and a violation of our rights as consumers.
  
  So before you buy I must warn you that this game does not only live up to the hype but install 
 a maclious program in your computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gill97
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  yeh, so as i was saying this game is the bomb i soooooooo do recomend you gamespot crew to get 
 a chance to look at this game and play it. BUTTTTT i would first rent it and see if you people 
 like these types of games but to me i love tis game its amazingggg!!!!!!!!!!! in this game there 
 is a bad to sadly, the people in this game are a bit ugly and the graficks are very very very very 
 good so if are a person that cares how the people look like in the game wellll ireally don't care 
 what you do then but i recomend that you people buy this game bioshock.
  
  sincerely, HALO MASTER/ GILL97 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2034,0. html
  
  Bioshock is one of the most gripping and immersive single-player FPSs of this decade...
  
  
 Coming out of the factories, Bioshock had a lot to live up to. Its "spiritual predecessor," System 
 Shock 2, was often hailed as one of the greatest games of all time for its unique combination of 
 FPS shooting action, RPG elements, creepy environments, and story-telling rivaling that of great 
 movies and books. From the get-go, Ken Levine and his studio, 2K Boston/Australia (formerly Irrational 
 Games) , have stated that they have drawn on their experiences from making System Shock 2 in order 
 to create their latest title. Does Bioshock live up to the enormous hype and strength of its predecessor?
 
  
  Unlike the stories of most shooters, Bioshock's narrative is an important part of the package, 
 and as such, it is noticibly stronger than others. With a nod to the Half-life series, the entire 
 plot unfolds through the eyes of your character, building a bond and an understanding of the situation 
 that he is put into. The story starts off in 1960, with your character being subject to a disastrous 
 plane crash in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean. Pulling yourself out of the wreckage, you find 
 yourself near a lighthouse which eventually leads you into a breathtaking submarine ride into the 
 underwater city of Rapture, under the command of its megalomaniacal mayor, Andrew Ryan. It doesn't 
 take long to realize that something had gone horribly wrong, as you emerge into a city filled with 
 crazed, genetically-modified citizens named Splicers, who go around and attack each other for ADAM, 
 the Rapture's "genetic currency." Attempting to escape, your character soon encounters the strength 
 of plasmids as he receives the power to electrocute and manipulate the environment and enemies 
 around him. The story unfolds from there-on-out, and is filled with enough surprises and turns 
 to intrigue even the most hardcore gamers.
  
  There is a lot to talk about Bioshock when mentioning its gameplay. As stated before, your character 
 gains access to a variety of plasmids and "tonics" which allow you to customize him for your specific 
 play-style. From electrocution to manipulation, and from health boosts to hacking improvements, 
 Bioshock simply offers a multitude of choices. That isn't to say that the shooting part of this 
 first person shooter has been neglected, because it hasn't. You get some pretty standard weapons 
 including the usual shotgun, machine gun, etc. However, these too can be upgraded at specific stations 
 hidden throughout the city. The enemies are fun and varied enough to be unique in the genre. For 
 most of the game, you fight the crazed Splicers, who use weapons and enhanced genetic plasmid abilities 
 to try and take you out. There are also a small group of bosses scattered throughout the game, 
 who are really special Splicers with souped-up health and damage abilities. Most intriguing are 
 the Big Daddies, (guardians of enslaved girls called Little Sisters) , who go around and protect 
 the Little Sisters as they extract ADAM from the bodies of dead Splicers. As you might imagine, 
 these Little Sisters are quite a tempting target for the city's citizens and yourself, so the Big 
 Daddies are appropriately armed and armored to be a major problem if you annoy them or threaten 
 their assigned Little Sisters. They are extremely tough to take down, and the game encourages you 
 to use your weapons, plasmids, and the environment to take them down. There are many choices, such 
 as freezing a Big Daddy and then chipping away at him with your weapons, luring him into the path 
 of mines, or even hacking the city's security system to send out security bots and attack him. 
 Choice isn't a problem in Bioshock. It also extends into how you deal with the Little Sisters when 
 you finally catch them. Will you harvest them for ADAM, or will you save them from their genetic 
 manipulation and consequently receive a smaller amount of ADAM (but feel better about yourself) ? 
 These choices play heavily later on in the game, leading you to two opposing endings which are 
 based on how you treat the Little Sisters throughout the game. It adds an incentive to play the 
 game at least twice, and makes the initial choices hard to make, an aspect that is hard to find 
 in any other game. The environments themselves aren't strictly linear, and there's tons of audio 
 diaries and evidence which helps the player understand what happened in Rapture before he arrived. 
 Halfway through the game, the player is delivered a unique and impressive plot twist which frankly 
 startled me and made me think about Bioshock and how it differed from all of the other games ever 
 made.
  
  However, every masterpiece has its problems, and Bioshock does have them. Thankfully, though, they're 
 extremely small and won't take away from the experience too much. To start off, you basically fight 
 the same five or six kinds of Splicers throughout the entire game. In order to make the enemies 
 a bit more challenging later on, 2K artificially increases the health of the Splicers as Bioshock 
 progresses. Suddenly, enemies which you could previously take down with a pistol shot to the head 
 take much more than that to go down. Also, whenever you "die," you're reborn in one of the city's 
 Vitachambers, with all of your weapons and stats intact, allowing you to go right back into battle 
 against your now-damaged foes. This makes the game much easier than it should be, and while it 
 may encourage experimentation, it certainly removes any tension that you're supposed to feel if 
 faced with a large number of enemies.
  
  The world of Rapture is meticulously designed and expressed. The art style has definite Ayn Rand 
 influences in it, and the music stored on scattered phonographs are actual songs which were popular 
 in the sixties. The presentation in Bioshock is further compounded by the fact that it makes great 
 use of Unreal Engine 3, and as such, is one of the year's best looking games, both in technical 
 detail and outstanding art direction.
  
  On the 360 and the PC, the game looks and plays nearly the same. The 360 controller could feel 
 kind of cumbersome when switching weapons and plasmids or doing a timed hacking puzzle, but 2K 
 has definitely done its best on both platforms. Also, if you have a Vista computer rig with the 
 appropriate DirectX 10 graphics card, you will have an even more satisfying experience with soft 
 particles and 3D water effects.
  
  Bioshock is a one-in-a-million success. It has everything one would want from a single-player experience: 
 intriguing story, stand-out characters and enemies, a certain degree of choice, character customization, 
 unique art direction, great sound, and technically exquisite graphics. Its story is the most gripping 
 part of the package, and won't let you go until you finish with both of the game's opposing endings. 
 Bioshock is a definite candidate for game of the year, and will be remembered for a long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esba160
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  I got the game in best buy for 50 bills.. i dont usually buy games.. last game si bought was HL2 
 because I wanted to. Same story with Bioshock.. I hearted a lot of good things a about the game 
 and decided to contribute to the developers and buy the freaking thing..
  
  In my view it does not worth $50. The good
  Graphically yes it looks great but so do all the 
 other next gen games.. Atmosphere and style is definitely there, which makes this game stand out 
 from a other FPS games.. Good ideas with plasmids.. very cool characters The not so much
  The version for PC has a lot of technical problems. A lot! Im running the on Gforce 8600 gts..3 
 gigs ram, 4.4 amd dc..
  
  The game has constant crashesI called customer support and I was told to ply the game in 9X vs 
 10X.. ok well that should resolve the problem Right?? Nope crashes after 2 hours of play.. very 
 frustrating and I am sure its not only me or my pc..
  
  Besides that the game does not have a FPS feeling to it.. the guns are not to realistic.. although 
 alternative fire is cool.. it is definitely a console game, made for xbox ppl.. im hardcore pc 
 gamer and fps is all I play.
  
  It does not make it for me not enough excitement sometimes just gets very boring.. and I loose 
 interest in playing it further.. on top of that the constant crashes really make me not want to 
 play the game. And knowing that the patch is no where close to completion makes me want to go 
 and get my $50 back if you claim that your product is the isht.. make sure to back it up.. operantly 
 2k games didnt do a great job testing the pc version of Bioshock.
  
  A bit over hyped game still a solid 8. but for people that like CS.. and more realistic FPS games.. 
 this game would not be a slam dunk
  
  Seph. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viniterra
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  The ambient stylization of this game is the best feature it's presents. Incredible graphics, and 
 a very attractive old year atmosphere.
  
  The gameplay has nothing of innovative, but accomplishes the objective of a shooter. What makes 
 this an easy to beat game is the fact that you can resurrect on the chambers every time you die, 
 and the weak resistance of the enemies, contrasting with the hard-to-kill big daddy.
  
  The skills in the game are interesting, and I like the DNA modification idea. It is interesting 
 to control a big daddy and let one fight against other.
  
  I did not like the final cinematic, to be honest none of them (by killing or not a little sister) .
 
  
  Concluding, I would give the game an less than 9.0 rate, but I had to round it to match with GS 
 rate system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xuerebx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, this game is quite good. The graphics are awesome, and the gameplay is quite 
 nice aswell. But the game could have been better. Some various stuff it could have had...
  
  -Inventory
  You don't have an inventory in the game. Just the weapons which can be used by 
 pressing the corresponding number or using the mouse scroll. That's it. And some items which can 
 be used for other items can only be viewed when activating certain machines. But you'll never know 
 how much of the stuff you're actually carrying.
  
  -Weapons
  The game would have been MUCH better if there were much more weapons (In all, there are just about 
 8-9 weapons) . And some special weapons would have been a nice addition. Yes the game is set in 
 the 60s, but it wouldn't have been such an eerie thing if there were weapons not really existing 
 at those times. I mean, there are monsters and lots of other out-of-this-world stuff, so some advanced 
 machinery would have been OK.
  
  ---
  
  I felt the game being repetitive. I mean it's always walk-dodge-shoot-walk and so on. There wasn't 
 really much difference in the stuff to do.
  
  I give credit to the plasmid idea, as it felt really cool to launch fire, or manipulate objects 
 using telekinesis. And the Adam (Which is sort of the money or power needed to buy plasmids) is 
 also a cool thing. Especially when having to choose whether to kill or not to kill a small girl 
 to harvest it's Adam. That choice makes the game feel very personal, and not like you're playing 
 it from a distance.
  
  All in all, it's a good game, but could have been better, especially for all the hype about this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geminidevine
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I really like this game again never played it lol. This is one of the games that i plan on getting 
 this year for the PC. My friends keep talking to me about getting the Xbox 360, to me i enjoying 
 playing first person shooters on the PC. It's games like that that separate PC gamer from the console. 
 Despite this game being on 360 i just think that you get far superior resolution. I have a CRT 
 with 1600 + 1200 resolution so playing this game will be eye candy. Bioshock is great game if you 
 are into sci-fi shooters and this game is truly unigue in everyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlanUK78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game really does immerse you into its world. In between games, I find myself constantly 
 about Bioshock. Its atmosphere, its amazing sound effects, voice overs and clever design. The story 
 is deep and well thought. The world is addictive and the graphics are stunning. I'm not usually 
 a shooter type of guy, but this game has totally taken me! It's quite scary too, which makes the 
 game best played at night, with lights off, and surroung sound on loud... If your PC can't play 
 this game due to its high requirements, it's probably worth buying an XBOX360 just for this!
  
  Only 1 wish: 2K games could have made this game compatible with more graphic cards on PC than 
 they did... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddaughtry333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  The levels and originality of weapon design far over-shadow the drawbacks of this game. The drawbacks 
 included enemy design. They were a little boring and repetitious. More attention to the design 
 of the hidden corners of the levels would have been nice. The game was very crash ridden until 
 I got the DX10 card, then it was smooth as silk. Load times made me snore, made me really try hard 
 not to die. The story line was great, though. Plot twists abound and the recordings kept you abreast 
 of the unfolding story. The weapons were fun to use in varying combinations and the visual effects 
 were pleasant on the eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cedoreborn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  Finally, A FPS that has something for us Rpg fans. shoot them in the head then customize your gun 
 so it shoots them in the head better or just shoot lightning at the **** like the Freaking Emperor... wheres 
 my lightsaber...
  Actually I have bought MANY FPS's before that promised me something different and for once i got 
 it! so few FPs really immerse you into it's world giveing the characters reason for being and acting 
 how they do and even fewer take the time to do it well, but the technical problems r killer making 
 it hard to truly enjoy if u aren't luck enough to be on it's exact hardware setup 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Right now out od Bioshock or Medal of Honor Airborne my other favorite game of the year, I would 
 say that I like Bioshock the best. Bioshock from beginning to end is one of the best experiences 
 you will have this year. You are in a plain when it crashes in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean. 
 You survive and find out you are right by a light house. You go inside the light house and find 
 an under water elevator like thing that takes you down to a city known as Rapture.
  
  Bioshock is mainly about choices. You can play through the game a certain way and do other things. 
 So the choices you have are, you can either play through Bioshock with your guns and just shoot 
 everything or you can use you plasmids, which are genetic modifications.
  
  The plasmids in Bioshock allow you to do cool things like make fire come out of your hands or make 
 two enemies fight, or shoot a swarm of hornets out of you bare hands.
  
  You also have guns. You have the standard pistole, machine, and shot gun. You also have a grenade 
 launcher, a chemical thrower, a wrench, a camera, and a cross bow. You can upgrade your weapons, 
 and get different ammo for them.
  
  In Bioshock you have two enemies that you fight. One is the Splicers, which are these guys the 
 modified themselves and eventually went crazy. There are different kinds of Splicers. You have 
 that basic Splicers, Spider Splicers which move faster and crawl around on the wall, and these 
 Splicers that can be invisible and throw fire or ice out od their hands. The other enemy is the 
 Big Daddy, which are these big creatures that walk around. There are two types of Big Daddies. 
 One type carries around a shoot gun, and the other has a drill for a hand. The ones with the drill 
 in their hand are the hardest to kill because the charge at you and back you up into a wall. It 
 feels like you are fighting a bull.
  
  Why do you go after the Big Daddies? The reason why you ga after the Big Daddies is to get the 
 Little Sister. The Little Sisters are these weird little girls that go around and find corpses 
 and harvest this thing called Adam. You need Adam to modify tour self and make you self stronger. 
 Whe you kill the Big Daddy you have the choice to harvest the Little Sister in which you will get 
 160 Adam, but she will die, or save her and get 80 Adam and turn her back into a little girl, but 
 you will get rewarded.
  
  This mainly determines how the game ends. The one thing that sucks about this is that if you harvest 
 one Little Sister than you get the bad ending. So if you want to get the good ending, then you 
 need to save every Little Sister that you come across.
  
  The graphics in Bioshock look really good except for one thing. This is the reason why I could 
 not give it a 10. Every time you load your game, not all the textures on the items pop up. Usually 
 this happens to the whole room that you start in. Every thing will look blank for a few seconds 
 and then all the textures will pop in.
  
  The sound in Bioshock sounds amazing. You hear water washing in for holes on the walls, and you 
 hear people talking, and every time you hear a Big Daddy coming, you hear his hulking foot steps.
 
  
  If you want an amazing fps that will keep you interested in the story with a bunch of fun game 
 play, then you need to buy Bioshock! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antraxspore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is truely amazing. Altough its FPS it has some unique elements which make it different 
 and just a inovative game. The game itself has some humouristic elements mixed with action and 
 some horror, a just perfect combination.
  What I liked a lot was that is an action based FPS mixed with some mystique elements, like the 
 ability to shock, burn your enemies.
  Its just something different.
  Regarding the world detail / graphics the only thing I can say is that im really impressed about 
 how the game is optimized to give you some amazing graphic details wthout having the latest hardware. 
 In my case im running it on a Athlon64 X2 4200+ / Gf 7900GT 256mb. I thought that the 256mb of 
 video memory would not handle running this game on max at 1024x768 (max monitor resolution) at 
 a FPS decent framerate. But the game runs just excelent . After trying Bioshock i have very high 
 expectations for UT 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxKompressorxx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  BioShock is a Sci-Fi FPS that offers challenging gameplay, a disturbing yet interesting story, 
 and a variety of ways to destroy all who oppose as you try to figure out what the hell is going 
 on. Because life is not better, down where its wetter, under the sea!
  
  To start the game takes place in 1960 in a city known as Rapture that is completely underwater. 
 Much like a futuristic Atlantis. It was created by one man whose dream was a peaceful and equal 
 society. Now you come into this via a plane crash in which you are the lone survivor. Your stranded 
 next to this light house and upon entering it you find a sphere that sucks you down to this great 
 city. But not all is right in the empire of Rapture, hideous mutants roam the streets, the city 
 is crumbling, life is nowhere to be found. Turns out you might have been better off stranded.
 
  
  The story in this game is certianly one of its high points. As you play the story will unfold and 
 you will learn about Raptures past and how this once great city ended up this way. And along your 
 journey you will encounter many twists and suprises and disturbing events, along with interesting 
 characters, that overall keep you completely immersed. If BioShock were a movie, it would certainly 
 be a psychological thriller.
  
  In terms of gameplay, BioShock is your typical FPS with your typical weapons. You have your melee 
 weapon, your underpowered pistol, machine gun, shotgun, grenade launcher, and so on. And you also 
 have your different ammo types such as anti-personnel and rockets. Sounds boring right? Wrong. 
 Let me introduce you to the wonders of plasmids! As you traverse the city of Rapture you will come 
 across locations where you can purchase or find plasmids which are basically very interesting power 
 ups. These power ups genetically modify your character that can include anything from increasing 
 you melee swing time, to discharging electric bolts, to increase your health and magic which is 
 known as eve. The catch is, you can only have 3 active at any time, however plasmids your not using 
 are stored for when you need them. At first you only have two slots for you plasmids but as you 
 play the game you will come across something known as Adam which is basically the source of your 
 abilities and also allows you to upgrade, obtain new slots, and obtain new abilities. I wont go 
 into great detail so as to not spoil anything, but you need Adam to survive and you must overcome 
 enemies to obtain it.
  
  BioShock is fairly linear in terms of gameplay. The levels are somewhat big but get old quickly 
 as they all seem to look the same. Unfortunately many FPS games are suffering from that these days. 
 Also there are moments where you are given tedious objectives where your have to roam around looking 
 for things. This tends to get quite boring and annoying, however it doesnt happen alot, and if 
 you get through it you'll find the story picks back up and grabs your attention once more.
  
  Now, BioShock was certainly hyped up by its graphics, and in my opinion it does not disappoint. 
 Now at this point im sure you've heard about how amazing the water looks. Well, thats because it 
 does look amazing. No game to date has come close to making water look this good, its incredible 
 life like and makes you want to touch the screen to see if its real. The city scape looks incredible 
 as well as the characters and overall effects. The best part is you don't need a NASA super computer 
 to enjoy it, as long as you have a roughly up to date computer you will have a wonderful visual 
 experience. Even on low settings this game shines.
  
  The sound in this game is not something that should be overlooked. Froms the soundtrack, to sound 
 effects, to voice acting. All is done very well and seriously contributes to the outstanding gameplay. 
 You'll wish other games put this much attention and effort into there sound development.
  
  Overall BioShock is a great experience. It offers outstanding gameplay, story, graphics and sound. 
 This is one game you shouldnt pass up, and as many games today are compare to games the like of 
 HL:2 and Doom 3. Future games will surely be compared to BioShock! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newformz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  I am always sceptical about why some games get such high ratings and such hype when they dont seem 
 that special but after playing this my oppinion had changed. It has been a long time since i enjoyed 
 a single player game and a game that i can play for few hours without getting bored.
  
  The way it all fits together is very nicely done with the right kind of atmosphere and nice little 
 moments which really enhance the experiance. I wouldnt say it is a scary game to play but it definately 
 has you on your toes with enemies leaping at you from the dark with a crowbar or a shotgun.
  
  There are many nice features like the weapons and body upgrades which make this stand out from 
 the rest of the typical FPS games. There is more to this then just shooting everything in sight 
 with puzzles and having to find your way out of places which can get frustrating at times but it 
 makes the game last imo. Overall a very enjoyable game, addictive and fun to play especially with 
 the funny voice comments you here around, the atmosphere is the best i have experianced in a game 
 with great special effects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtxero28
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 5:42 am PT
Review:  I first heard about BioShock from a close friend of mine about a year ago after he downloaded the 
 trailer off xbox live. I was pretty shocked when I seen the trailer, it was actually one of the 
 first trailers in a long time to make my jaw drop. I must say this game holds true to the jaw dropping 
 trailer I seen over a year ago, and even more.
  
  The game takes place right after the 1950's (1960 to be exact) but with a 'futuristic' steam punk 
 twist to it. Although the Sci-Fi elements are very much there, the game manages to hold true to 
 the atmosphere of the 1950's era in a very pleasing and surprising way. Almost immediately you'll 
 recognize some of the 1950's music thats played throughout the game rather creatively through use 
 of jukeboxes, record players, and sound systems. The artwork of the 1950's is present, complete 
 with its small cartoon skits that explain certain aspects of the game (mainly the plasmids and 
 how they work) , black and white photographs, the 'please stand by' TV error, and much more that 
 sets the setting very well. The gameplay had me thinking as the game more RPG inspired than First 
 Person Shooter with the way it was laid out. Which was actually a rather rewarding thing. It has 
 your typical First Person Shooter guns and click-to-fire type gameplay, but with a twist! You also 
 have the ability to genetically enhance yourself with powers that can do a number of things from 
 freezing your enemies to tricking a 'big daddy' (yep, thats one of those guys on the boxes) into 
 being your personal sidekick for a few minutes. You acquire these abilities throughout the game 
 by buying them from a vender with a, for lack of better word, currency known as ADAM. ADAM is acquired 
 by chasing down these little girls known as 'little sisters' and either harvesting them or saving 
 them. Unfortunately its not as easy as it sounds as they're usually accompanied by big daddies 
 who are actually the hardest things you'll fight in the game. At first I thought having these abilities 
 was a bit gimmicky as shooting seemed more effective, but you'll soon see that every enemy has 
 very tough resistance to certain elements and weaknesses to others. Bullets actually turn out to 
 be the weakest form of killing someone! Don't get me wrong though, pumping someone full of lead 
 (especially after the just jumped out and made you scream like a girl) is still ever so satisfying.
 
  
  Horror elements are defiantly in the game as well. I'd suggest playing this game after midnight, 
 with the lights off and surround sound turned way up. Although the game does have its jumpy moments 
 its not as scary as some other games I've come across. Its about 3 notches of scary under Doom 
 3 if that gives you anything to measure by. Major difference in this game from other horror games 
 is that you'll actually hear your enemies talking before you see them, which takes the scary feeling 
 away from most encounters. There are some however that will jump out at you and spook ya. :)
  
  The thing that intrigued me the most about BIoShock was the story line. I really don't want 
 to say much here for risk of spoiling the twists and turns of the story so I'll make it brief. 
 You play a plane crash survivor who by chance stumbles upon a city in the middle of the ocean named 
 Rapture. Once you enter the city you'll be welcomed by lady Splicer who is tearing shred to some 
 poor guy. Not to worry though, as you're quickly radioed by a man who goes by the alias of Atlas. 
 Atlas guides you through the game to help and try to find his family and get yourself to safety. 
 Along the way you'll see plenty of twists, turns and have the chance to save (or harvest) the little 
 sisters. The story holds very strong for a majority of the game, but dies down a bit towards the 
 end, but not so much that you'll notice until the end itself. The end proved to be VERY unsatisfying 
 and short. Once you defeat the final boss you're shown a 30 second video of the aftermath of your 
 decisions and thats it. Hardly any closing at all, and its the only reason I refuse to give this 
 game over a 9.0.
  
  Overall BioShock is one of the best FPS games that I've ever played, if it wasn't for the lackluster 
 ending this game would be a masterpiece. Recommended to anyone who enjoys First Person Shooters, 
 Horror Games, or Sci-Fi in general. Go play it, Would you kindly? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ollism
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Graphics-Story-Sound-Game play=Fantastic!
  
  Played most days for about 1-2 hours a day, lasted about 2-3 weeks
  
  Cant beat the attacking 
 combos using Plasmids and gunfire.
  
  Look forward to BiosShock 2 =D
  
  Best FPS since Far-cry and HL2
  
  9/10 loses the one point because its quite easy once u get 
 all the
  plasmids going. But saying that its then fun Axing the Big Daddies lol :D
  
  Cant think of more to say so heres some random text to fill out the 100 words) hehe...
  
  
 
  
  
  (When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time  you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viceg
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  My review is very short because I played this game around one month ago. I knew that Crysis be 
 probably something special but many friends told me: Better wait for Bioshock! . Few months ago 
 I didn't know why. I also wasn't very impressed by screenshot and didn't fallow that game at all. 
 But now I now...
  
  Usually I play only those games, which are known as very good so maybe I don't have very good comparison. 
 Anyway this game is really amazing...
  
  Storyline, cute graphic and sound, awesome atmosphere, quests, weapons and plasmids, this city... 
 Woah it is very hard to find any cons. Always I can find some (bigger or smaller) . This time I 
 can only say that ending can be a bit disappointing. However, I don't think that game should be 
 longer. It was the best possible option for me (not very long so pure action all the time but also 
 not so short, much longer than most of the new commercial first person shooters, like Quake 4 - 
 hehe it isn't that new :P - or Half-Life 2: Episode 1 and 2) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madglee
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  The first thing to be mentioned is that this game runs very smoothly on a medium system. The graphics 
 are beautiful and the recordings you pick up contribute to the story, which has a few twists that 
 you might suspect but are still satisfying.
  
  The combat is a bit lacking despite the AI, which I think is relatively good compared to most contemporary 
 games. You basically have things leap out at you and you kill them, though they do retreat and 
 even try to heal themselves if you haven't hacked a med station. The difference is that they will 
 try to circle around to kill you, which I haven't seen a lot of, though it's still not difficult 
 to kill them, which makes the combat lacking.
  
  Also, the hacking, while fun in System Shock 1 and 2, is pretty annoying. It's great to have a 
 turret/camera on your side, but the flow thing is just annoying. I hacked everything but it was 
 pretty boring. Somehow, in SS2, it was fun, but in this game I'm telling you - it's boring and 
 annoying - although it's obviously useful and sometimes even necessary to keep the splicers off 
 of you.
  
  Without revealing anything that would ruin your enjoyment, I went the save everyone way, and I 
 was a bit disappointed by the ending. I would suggest killing everyone, even the little sisters. 
 The final boss battle was a bit short.
  
  Still, looking back at this review I see that I was a bit harsh. While this game is worth 50 bucks 
 if you have the cash, I'd probably wait until it's a bit cheaper. Definitely good, but not that 
 satisfying in the end. Nice 5 second movie and then kicks you back to the startup screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remainslucid
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  The last true greatness I experienced was Ocarina of Time. I'm not much of a first person shooter 
 fan, i enjoyed Half-Life episode 1 and 2, but i didn't enjoy Half-Life 2. Nevertheless, this game 
 is my new favorite and i'm sure i will be quite some time until i play something better, if ever. 
 When magazine and reviewers talk about next gen, this game truly is next-gen, as in next-gen experience. 
 I've never been sucked in and felt alive in a living breathing virtual world like this.. Absolutely 
 every aspect exudes maximum polish, never ever a sense of repetition or throwaway levels or action. 
 Every inch by crawling inch of this game is beautiful and worth worship, i could spend hours just 
 admiring the views and the music. The absolute Mona Lisa of video games, second place all time 
 is not even close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatter28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I can't help but feel disappointed by Bioshock. As someone who has played (quite a few times) both 
 System Shock 1 &amp; 2, the game's mechanisms are far too familiar. Med and psi hypo's are now 
 medkits and eve, Replicators are Vending Machines, Cybernetic modules is ADAM, nanites are dollars 
 etc. etc. Practically everything that you find in Bioshock is a copy (or should I say clone, in 
 Biospeak) of something in System Shock 2.
  
  Bioshock does not maintain the replayability of System Shock however. Unlike System Shock 2 you 
 do not have to spend points into various weapon skills, instead you get them and then you can immediately 
 use them to their best effect (save for no-skill weapon upgrades) . So whereas System Shock 2 forced 
 you to choose between mental, physical and engineering powers, Bioshock does not. Spending your 
 ADAM one way or the other will not effect how you play the game by much. This is a missed opportunity 
 and very unfortunate.
  
  On the upside, Bioshock has superb artwork and voice acting. The world around you is extremely 
 colorful and lifelike. There is a lot to see and the story is interesting enough for you to want 
 to see it through.
  
  If you haven't played System Shock before, this game will be great for you, otherwise it's just 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ichigo902
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  Awesome Game. Its truly amazing what you can do in this game. You get all sorts of different plasmids. 
 You start out with two plasmids slots, but then you can upgrade you genetics upgrades, so that 
 you can have more slots. Also the weapons upgrade station is awesome... I love it how you can upgrade 
 the weapon you like, so that you can use it more effectively. This game definitely keeps you on 
 your feet wanting more of the action. I don't think it's possible to get tired of this game. Also 
 once you start playing you don't wanna stop playing. Great Game. If you have enough money to buy 
 this game. I would recommend it. definitely worth my money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaosmancer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Bioshock, every once in a while a good game comes out, games that are good just doesn't that thing 
 that makes you want to leave school just to play it, well this game isn't one of then, this is 
 one of the few games who I'm proud to be the owner, this is one of the games who will make your 
 head spin, this is one of the games you will beg for Christmas, this game is Bioshock. The probably 
 best game I have every played, it s a mixture of Halo with Harry Potter, it is the game were science 
 meets magic, it is the game that makes your head spin, it is the game that is next to perfection, 
 having very few bugs, great sound, great graphics, great game-play. I can see nothing bad in this 
 game except it won't let you have everything, you want it bug there is always something you will 
 give up in order to have it. Like Fifa, Pro Evolution Soccer, Half-life, or Counter-Strike? Forget 
 about those little rats, they are nothing against this game, only God of War, Prince of Persia 
 or Halo can be even close to this game. This is human kind finest creation until now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shceontrty
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  If your worst fears are claustrophobia and drowning, then this game may not be for you. Those are 
 my two worst fears and I loved playing the game. It was like Half Life 1 and 2 under water. I really 
 like the Half Life games, but always thought the graphics were a little behind (I know about the 
 delay of Half Life2) . The graphics were solid on this game. The smoke effects looked great. The 
 fire effects were amazing. The sound effects and ambient noises were well done as well. This is 
 the first FPS that I played where you can hear your shoes when you just spin in place. When a game 
 is able to make you feel for the charters, then it is well done. Great overall game and a blast 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: watson_twenty5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure that there's not much I can say that someone else hasn't already said. This game is one 
 of the greatest ever made. If you have and XBOX 360 or a PC, then you simply need to get this game.
 
  
  The only reason you wouldn't get this game is if you're not a fan of the FPS genre. Then I would 
 tell you not to get this game.
  
  Uhh.......... this game has very few flaws. That I could find anyway. The controls are excellent. 
 The mapping of the control layout is also excellent. Item inventory is also on par with the rest. 
 The only shortcoming that I could find was the end of the game. It ended very abruptly. Maybe I'm 
 just used to a fairly lengthy end cutscene. This game's end cutscene is about 45 seconds to a minute 
 in length. At least in the ending that I received.
  
  The game is just a blast to play through. I'm going to play it again. That is a fact. Take my (and 
 pretty much everyone else on the planet's) word for it and check it out if you haven't already.
 
  
  What else needs to be said? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AWMPerry
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 8, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  It looked great in the previews, didn't it? Role-playing elements, ethical dilemmas, next-gen graphics, 
 moddable guns, genetic enhancements... It was going to be great.
  
  And then came this.
  
  The role-playing was toned down to simply choosing which tonics to use. The ethical dilemmas 
 were trimmed to just a fade-to-black with no subtlety (and worse, leading to an ending which forces 
 the player out of character for no apparent reason) . The graphics... well, they're pretty. But 
 with all that talk of water effects, every time they appear it's to force you to hurry somewhere, 
 so you never get a chance to see them properly. And it doesn't matter how good the graphics are 
 if you can't see them - this is a very, very dark game.
  
  The moddable guns are distinctly underwhelming. And the plasmids and tonics? They're standard fantasy 
 magic with new names. Fireball? Check. Telekinesis? Check. Force Lightning? Check. They even have 
 Armour of Zappy Magic Smiting.
  
  But for all of that, it could still have held my interest. I haven't had any of the much-publicised 
 technical problems (yet - touch wood) , and it runs very smoothly on my system with all settings 
 at maximum. It could still have been good.
  
  But it's not. Sure, the story's clever (though sometimes it feels like it's trying to be too clever) , 
 but it has number of twists that are either stupid, implausible or veering hopelessly into clich&eacute;. 
 Still, in game terms, the story's great. Far better than we usually get. That's not the problem.
 
  
  Nor is the classic FPS problem of setting the viewpoint so it feels like you're four foot tall, 
 or the fact that you cast no shadow (and appear to have no feet) ; we're used to that by now.
  
  Even the trite, recycled thug-o-matic cannon fodder you go up against aren't the major problem. 
 They're just annoying and rather dull, zombies by any other name; the shambling zombies waving 
 sticks, the xenomorphs/genestealers crawling across the ceilings, and so on.
  
  No, the problem is even more fundamental. Instead of trying for novelty in the gameplay, they've 
 gone for the traditional, tried-and-tested horror technique:
  
  When in doubt:
  - make it really, really dark;
  - have shambling figures in the darkness;
  - throw in a side 
 order of insanity, season to taste with spooky whispers;
  - have adversaries that can materialise / drop from the ceiling / uncloak right behind you for 
 maximum shock value.
  
  They're all there. Every single stock shocker. Right down to the meathooks.
  
  It's lazy, that's 
 all. What a waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbrading
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Unless you have been living on the dark side of the Moon for the past year, it is likely that you 
 have already heard of BioShock. It generated enormous hype before launch, and has now gained one 
 of the largest aggregate critical review scores ever (according to Metacritic with 96 out of 100, 
 coincidentally the same as Half-Life 2) . Whilst it does have a number of minor flaws, including 
 a final lacklustre ending and sporadic difficultly problems, it is very clear that BioShock is 
 still a fantastic game to experience, creating one of the best settings for years, and accompanying 
 it with an immersive and creepy atmosphere, and a plot worthy of a Hollywood blockbuster.
  
  The game opens in extremely dramatic style, with you travelling across the Atlantic Ocean in 
 1960, when your plane suddenly crashes into the sea. Playing as Jack (a name derived from a present 
 you are holding in the opening cutscene) , and with no idea of why you are there or how the plane 
 crashed, you make your way inside an isolated lighthouse the plane just so happened to crash near. 
 From here you take a bathysphere (a primitive submersible) ride to the underwater Objectivist utopia 
 of Rapture. After a brief spiel from the designer and architect of the city Andrew Ryan, you quickly 
 realise that Rapture is far from the perfect, sophisticated, laissez-faire capitalist state it 
 is supposed to be. Due to a mixture of genetic splicing and class struggle, society has collapsed, 
 and the denizens of Rapture have become insane psychopaths, save for a few who have barricaded 
 themselves away from the chaos. The game consists of a long and twisted journey through numerous 
 different locales; including amongst others the fashionable shopping district of Fort Frolic and 
 the beautiful forested gardens of Arcadia, interacting with several of Raptures more sinister 
 citizens, and fighting the splicer hordes. Naturally, I cannot say anything specific plot-wise 
 without spoiling everything terribly, save to mention that the story is most definitely top-notch, 
 featuring much inspiration from the philosophy of Ayn Rand, genetic engineering, and the problems 
 of a completely free, unregulated capitalist society. Whilst the final ending (s) are disappointing 
 and simplistic, there is a plot twist to rival that of The Sixth Sense.
  
  As is expected, there is a nice variety of conventional weapons, from the wrench and pistol to 
 an experimental chemical thrower, almost all of which are great fun to use, although most of them 
 feel a little underpowered, as enemies take some time to go down. The far more fun weapons are 
 the plasmids, genetic alterations which give you superhuman powers. These range from abilities 
 such as Electro Bolt, which allows for the electrocution of enemies, to Insect Swarm, which shoots 
 wasps out of your arms at enemies, slowly stinging them to death. On the whole, you will normally 
 be using a combination of both weapon types to take down enemies, for example stunning them with 
 Electro Bolt and then clubbing them senseless with the wrench, or shooting them with the shotgun.
 
  
  To pay for these genetic enhancements, you must make use of a material called ADAM, which most 
 unfortunately, can only be obtained by getting at the Little Sisters, who are small girls that 
 wonder the ruins of Rapture, accompanied by hulking brutes known as Big Daddies, who protect the 
 latter. These Little Sisters obtain ADAM from the numerous corpses littering the different locations, 
 and it is your job to obtain it from them. You can do this in two ways, but both require the Big 
 Daddy to be taken out first. This can be very tricky, as Big Daddies are extremely tough to kill, 
 and any assault on one will require quite a bit of planning. Once you have dealt with them though, 
 you are given a binary choice: you can either harvest the girl, meaning she will die but you 
 will gain a large amount of ADAM, or you can rescue her, letting her live but only receiving 
 a smaller amount of ADAM. Naturally, both choices have important outcomes that effect the overall 
 progression of the plot. However, the choice is so Jin and Jang in nature that you instinctively 
 know which is the good and evil path, and thus, there is little or no moral ambiguity.
  
  There are some problems relating to the difficulty of the game. On easy setting, the citizens 
 bite the dust most realistically, taking only one or two bullets to bring them down, making combat 
 a relative cakewalk. However, the further you progress through the game, the more difficult the 
 enemies become to kill. This makes little sense (unless they were using plasmids or gene tonics 
 to improve their resilience, which is altogether possible) , and is quite annoying in itself. Similarly, 
 on medium and hard settings, the splicers become even more difficult to kill generally, meaning 
 that it can sometimes take more than half a clip of machine gun rounds before they are put to rest. 
 A much more sensible system would have been to make your death easier, but unfortunately, death 
 is not a problem for Jack in BioShock. When you die, you will be automatically revived at a nearby 
 Vita-Chamber, with some health and EVE, all ready and fresh to face a new day. Although this was 
 meant to improve the overall gaming experience and keep the pace moving, it means in practice that 
 it is possible to continually die and rise from the dead over and over, something which is both 
 stupid and irritating. Overall, these problems mean two things; either the game is too easy, and 
 youll never die, or the game is too difficult, and youll continually die and resurrect, meaning 
 its actually just as easy. In principle therefore, it would be almost possible for a Marmoset 
 to complete BioShock (apart from the ending section) , as long as you could teach it the controls.
 
  
  Graphically the game is amazingly detailed. The water effects are mesmerising to watch, the environments 
 are stunning to look at, and the characters are also very detailed, though they do appear somewhat 
 unrealistic, though this could be because of the genetic experimentation that has occurred. Environments 
 are spacious and quite varied, though later levels do feel like they were rushed as they suffer 
 from being both smaller and also more similar to each other. AI you encounter is quite intelligent, 
 will duck and run behind cover when needed, and will also make a beeline for the nearest health 
 station when they are nearly dead so they can come at you again. There are also several different 
 types of splicer, ranging from the gun touting Leadhead variety to Houdini, which can teleport 
 around at random, whilst throwing balls of fire towards you. It would have been great if there 
 could have been even more variety in the enemies, but only towards the end will this thought crop 
 into your mind. There is also the ability to hack several of the installations in Rapture, by 
 playing what is essentially a game of Pipe Dream.
  
  Musically, the game is really fantastic, featuring a number of classic 1940s and 50s songs which 
 occasionally start up in various areas of levels, making everything very sinister. I am naturally 
 drawn to compare this to The Shining, when Jack (strange how the main character of that film 
 and this game have the same name, isnt it?) walks down a corridor with Midnight for the Stars 
 and You playing quietly in the background. There is also a full orchestral score, parts of which 
 I am sure have also been drawn or inspired from the aforementioned film, as they both heavily feature 
 high tension string sections. On so many levels, this game is like The Shining, from the music 
 to the setting itself. Further, few other games have ever made me stop and think about a games 
 philosophy in such a way as BioShock has. Deus Ex was one and this is another good example. The 
 way the games plot is delivered through a series of taped recordings is also quite interesting, 
 as you can feel slightly nostalgic whilst listening to the past lives of the citizens.
  
  Without too much trouble, it is possible to look past the difficulty issues surrounding BioShock 
 and see it in better light. The story is ace, the setting is perfect and the gameplay itself is 
 wonderful. Naturally, it is not perfect, but as BioShock itself tells us, the pursuit of perfection 
 can lead to serious problems. We wouldnt have wanted Irrational Games to become insane psychopaths 
 whilst putting the game together, would we? As with many games, BioShock was partly a victim of 
 its own hype. If you look behind the hype though, you can find a game that is well designed and 
 is most importantly very fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShadowDawn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  In a nutshell: Bioshock provides a fascinating and beautiful world to explore, gameplay that will 
 forgive any player's quirks and nuances but reward their individual skills, and even has a decent 
 story to back it all up.
  
  Bioshock's graphics are jaw-dropping, assuming you have the rig to support them. The fact that 
 Rapture is located underwater gives an excellent pretext for the use of many dramatic and realistic 
 water effects, but the environs of Rapture are also colorful, engrossingly detailed, and vary realistically. 
 Perhaps what surprised me most though, is that Bioshock is comparatively forgiving on technical 
 power for a game that is churning out such detailed graphics. Don't get me wrong - you do need 
 a graphics card in the recommended range to appreciate the game, but you won't be forced to run 
 with all of the pretty graphics effects turned off if you don't have a top of the line machine.
 
  
  Bioshock is deceptive in its game design. While the story actually progresses in a completely linear 
 fashion, the game is divided up into large levels which correspond to different self-contained 
 districts of the city. Each area reveals certain themes about the game: for example, the early 
 Medical Pavilion level exposes the basic ethical problems found in an unregulated society; while 
 the later Point Prometheus area allows you to witness the techniques used to create the ubiquitous 
 Big Daddies and Little Sisters. You are left free to explore around each district while completing 
 the story goals, and the level of detail provides a thrill of exploration even aside from the more 
 material benefits and the desire to uncover audiotapes - the seeminly optional storytelling device 
 that you will feel compelled to follow.
  
  Audiotapes are, in fact, the primary storytelling device used by Bioshock - if you fail to listen 
 to them, you would actually learn remarkably little about the world of Rapture. Initially, they 
 may seem like an overused survival horror technique, but you will find yourself increasing engrossed 
 in uncovering the convergence between each character's problems and the current state of Rapture. 
 The closer you get to the end of the game, the less abstract these characters will become - you 
 will see their homes, their handiwork, and - in several cases - their grisly demise.
  
  Bioshock's combination of gameplay elements works incredibly well. You won't feel that plasmids 
 are supposed to be a gimmicky device to insert spells into the game because they support your assault 
 on Rapture's splicers and security systems fairly organically. Ammo is scarce enough to make you 
 think how to use it appropriately, but to make up for it there are a plethora of ammo types (three 
 per weapon) which mean the basic set of weapons can be employed in a number of different ways. 
 Bioshock encourages you to balance your reliance on plasmids, tonics (passive abilities) and weapons, 
 but doesn't punish you if you get the balance wrong. You're just as likely to score cash as ammo 
 off enemy bodies, and this allows you balance out your use of abilities however you like, be it 
 by purchasing extra EVE hypos (if you rely heavily on plasmids) , a particular ammunition type, 
 or what have you.
  
  Several reviews have commented about the lack of death penalty - you simply ressurect at a checkpoint-type 
 Vita-Station with the world remaining exactly as you left it when you died. Initially, I found 
 this a bit too easy, but as I played further on, I found it forced me to give up my obsessive FPS 
 habit of quicksave-quickload. Combined with the fact you have to conserve your abilities - but 
 can always just explore a little deeper than usual to find some extra ammo or cash - this means 
 that Bioshock encourages you to play constantly, with no breaks in gameplay. It made the game that 
 much more immersive.
  
  Another oft-quoted problem is that Bioshock has a relatively limited array of enemies - you will 
 have seen all the enemies the game has to offer within about three hours of play. However, because 
 your abilities grow throughout the game, the combat doesn't get old, because the increasing difficulty 
 of combat calls upon new use of weapons (and their respective ammo types) , plasmids and even the 
 environment.
  
  To be honest, the only major critique I agreed with of Bioshock is that the game is on the easy 
 side. It is possible to comfortably finish the game without exploring excessively to find extra 
 cash or ammo, or hack every vending machine to reduce the prices; conversely, if you do precisely 
 that, you'll often find your wallet full and that you are constantly a walking arsenal with precisely 
 the ammo type to deal with any situation. But, even despite the lack of serious challenges for 
 most of the game, Bioshock is a game that is so engrossing and so rewarding to explore that you 
 can't help but love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  Perfection is impossible, but I would have to say that Bioshock has come as close as possible. 
 I did not experience any of the technical problems that I heard other people had. Graphically this 
 game is very impressive, down to every little detail. There was a feeling that you were in a city 
 that had been abandoned. There was litter on the floor, broken windows, leaking pipes, rubble everywhere, 
 and half working neon signs. Everything lead to a perfect atmosphere, which at times could be fairly 
 frightening. The sound for the game also provided the perfect atmosphere, with great voices and 
 sounds that could help you almost as much as the visuals could. You could easily figure out where 
 enemies were from their voices well before you found them, allowing you to sneak up on them, or 
 around them, and plot their demise. What made the game truly fun were the genetic enhancements 
 you could equip yourself with, allowing you to become a human weapon, as well as carrying an impressive 
 arsenal. Between the two you can create any combination of destruction you desire. The environment 
 also allows you the ability to use your powers more effectively, from electrocuting water, to setting 
 oil on fire. What rounds out the entire game is the great plot that carries you along to the very 
 end, and your choices you make effect the outcome. With plenty of levels and lots of play time, 
 this is a must play game for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mongoose201024
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  the Big Daddy people are like giant scuba divers that have no cause if you make a second make it 
 good. if you play this game you are like pouring gas on the fire you might want to rent it first 
 and if you find this game fun your going to end up being good at it but if you play it for a long 
 time you start to have some sort of disease like first your going to want to fall on the ground 
 then you are going to want to steal stuff and take a shower for a hour then you have dreams about 
 the little sister then you are going to want to mock people you are opening a portle to some place 
 with no sun and no clouds and no video  
 yeah you heard me say it right now i have a huge mind blow out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Doom
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Hello All you Review Reading Peoples! Well its been along time since my last review so Im apalogizing 
 in advance for any misspellings. Well Any ways this is Easily the best PC Horror / Action title 
 iv have ever seen (and iv seen quite afew!) In fact this game might be a even match for Resident 
 evil 1in Ways of Horrorific Enemies and Awesome Story lines (But The Plot twists in RE 1 are not 
 as abundant / good as the Ones in Bioshock) Ultimatley Bioshock is a amazing Game that any / everyone 
 should buy if you liked Unreal Tourny, The Half Life Series or Quake 4! And as a Side note even 
 on Easy the game is still decently hard! This is Half_Doom signing off!
  
  CYA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: octop8
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This is really a ground-breaking game. Excellent storyline with a retro steampunk setting. Fantastic 
 gameplay. Wide range of weapons. The last parts of the game were very intense and had me dreaming 
 of those splicers when I sleep! The AI of enemies is challenging and I thoroughly combating the 
 wide array of splicers, Big Daddys and turrets.
  
  Had higher hopes for the ending though and it would have been nice to have longer wrap-up scenes. 
 The minigame is also a little tiresome after the first half of the game. Otherwise absolutely no 
 complains and I think this is a candidate for game of the year. Along with the Orange Box, this 
 has really revived and redefined the shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deckert2009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  So I got this about a week ago, thought it would be good to pass the time. Boy was i wrong, overall 
 it is an amazing game, it is a simple point and shoot game but incorporates puzzles and strategic 
 thinking to make it easier. If you don't like to think to beat a game, find another game to play, 
 but the puzzles aren't really hard and you just have to remember what each special power can do, 
 not only to the enemies but to the environment too, especially if you want to get the most out 
 of the little secrets hiding all over. Great game, the plot is fairly simple but has some twists..... 
 but no spoilers, graphics are amazing, but can be bothersome if your computer can't handle them. 
 Remember, each position and ability has its strengths and weaknesses, just make sure that you can 
 survive if the weaknesses win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enblogopedia
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  The graphics are awesome and I would give it 9.5.. actually it's the best graphics I've ever seen 
 and best of all it runs smoothly on my AMD 3800+ X2 - 2GB RAM - 7600GT, after installing the AMD 
 patches, of course!!
  
  But after a couple of hours the game get boring and the same scenario appears again and again but 
 with different level of difficulties. I really enjoyed CoD2 more than it!
  
  And after reaching 60-70% of the game I used the god cheat because I wanted to see the end of the 
 game, as the graphics and the few cut-scenes were the only things attaching me to the game, and 
 I was too close to uninstall it!
  
  One last thing, there's something missing in the game.. for example from time to time I fire my 
 CoD2 version and play it for 30-60min but unfortunately, this won't be the case with BioShock : (
 
  
  I would give it 8.0 or even 8.5 but as there's a lot of idiots who just give it 10 and increase 
 the average score for nothing I'll give it 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigaman299
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is easily one of the best games I have ever played. It's quite amazing, although it does 
 have its own flaws. In general, this game is extremely fun. I'd recommend it to anybody who matches 
 the Mature criteria, and anyone who just likes first person shooters/horrors (although this game 
 isn't that scary; you'll find out why soon) .
  
  This game is focused around the collection of ADAM and plasmids. ADAM is very important in the 
 game (you'll find out why soon enough) , and plasmids are, basically, superpowers that enhance your 
 character in some way or another. Plasmids can be used strategically. The first plasmid you get 
 is called Electro Bolt. At first, it seems like it just stuns your enemy. However, at this time, 
 Bioshock decides to tell you what you can do with this plasmid. You can actually shoot it at water 
 to electrocute people, unlike simply firing this electro bolt at someone else to stun them. In 
 the future, you can use many plasmids strategically at your advantage. This game is definitely 
 a great first person shooter, strategically. It is also action packed. Lots of splicers and big 
 daddies to kill. One flaw with this system is that you cannot die. If you die, you'll simply be 
 sent back to the nearest Vita Chamber. Vita Chambers are simply containers which you are able to 
 respawn at after you die. This simplifies gameplay, because if you are fighting a boss, you can 
 respawn and go back. Going back keeps the boss at the same health, so even if you don't have ammo, 
 you can keep going back and tank the boss with a monkey wrench.
  
  The graphics for this game is near amazing. It's true that you'll need a mainstream or high-end 
 graphics card to play this game, but that's alright. It still runs amazingly. This FURY advertisement 
 on the side is annoying me. Anyways, you can use budget cards to run the game, although it won't 
 run well even after OCing. Even so, it will look like a decent game. This game should be more optimized, 
 in my opinion, although that's okay. The game doesn't lack.
  
  The sounds are what make this game semi-scary. Not the graphics, not the gameplay, definitely the 
 sound. You'll hear an ambient soundtrack, and some people talking in the background in total silence. 
 You'll want to look around yourself, but you won't see anything until it attacks. I know it's a 
 little cliche, but it's still cool. :)
  
  This is one of those games that you'd like to play over and over again. It's fun to invite your 
 friends over and play this game, although it's fun just to enjoy by yourself. It's not that scary, 
 but for some players out there, don't piss your pants. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GearsOfWarLover
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot to offer in just one package. Sure theres no online but it makes up for it 
 on the offline. I love killing big daddies and its hella fun doin it. The single player takes a 
 long time to beat if you play it on hard mode. The controls are simple and the graphics are just 
 so good. The water effects in the game is the best ive seen so far. I give it a 9 and the only 
 reason why i didnt give it a 10 is that because when your lurring a big daddy in a different room 
 and kill it you come back to see youve lost the little sisters so that pretty much was a usless 
 time off dieing 100 times. Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  well, bioshock is for sure a great game, while you play it growns on you and came up to be a very 
 great game with em awesome story.
  i think there were only two major problems:
  
  first: you never die, when you die you are ressurected by a machine and go back to the location 
 of the determinated machine.
  
  two: the kacking system is a innovative and good idea, bring a lot of benefits to you during you 
 journey trough rapture.
  but with the times it becomes repetitive and exaustive.
  for every room there always something to hack, you dont really HAVE to
  hack but if you dont 
 you will have a hell of a time running from cameras and fighting small helicopters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makhdoom82
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is highly recommended to FPS fan. Those who have also played system shock 2 would be 
 so happy playing this because this game is as creepy and as fun to play as system shock 2 was. 
 It uses unreal engine to the fullest and creates stunning visuals. The very first time i played 
 it i mistook the ingame graphics for cutscene at the beginning of the game. Graphically it is no 
 doubt beautiful but gameplay wise it is also immersive. The story line is so compelling that one 
 is impressed after playing it. It has no multiplay but that can be overlooked since as a single 
 player game it will satisfy you. From start to the end you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VMAN-Vercetti
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  First off, I'm a huge fan when it comes to hardcore games. You know, Doom 3, Quake 4, the games 
 that really suck the life out of you.
  
  BioShock is no different. It does have some storyline, but storyline is not important when it comes 
 to hardcoreness!
  
  I'll start with the graphics. Well, up to this date, this game is a god when it comes to quality-performance 
 ratio. It has killer graphics and they don't need much specs. Unlike that miserable Lost Planet 
 : Extreme Conditions.
  
  The sound is spectacular and immersive, it just embeds you in the atmosphere of the game.
  
 
  The gameplay is a true beast. This game has unique weapons and features called plasmids which 
 are similar to spells.
  
  There is a great variety of weapons and items in the game. There is also the notion of money and 
 Adam ( magical powers ) . There are certain shops in the game, at which you buy magical powers, 
 stock plasmids, buy or upgrade weapons or supplies etc.
  
  From the begining, it smacks you right into the desolate and unforgiving atmosphere of Rapture, 
 an underwater hell.
  
  So, if you like to scratch your brains with a harcore game, Bioshock at hardest difficulty is similar 
 to Doom 3 at hardest difficulty.
  So, my hardcore loving folk, buy this wonder! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owner900
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  It is so fun to play but sometimes it does crash so you really have to save often. It is totally 
 worth buying. It is full of things you've never seen before and it is just so good. The graphics 
 are fantastic and you will love it. You use the wasd keys to move and at the beginning there are 
 no cutscenes and you will be amazed by the 3D rendering. If you rally want to get to the good part 
 you don't want to hang around in the first area (its the toturial level) so you should just zip 
 right through it. (: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apekiller
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 5, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is a great game - for the X360. On the PC however, it's a totally different story - the 
 game was ported from the X360 with very little optimization.
  
  The good:
  - Very nice graphics;
  - Good sound;
  - Captivating gameplay;
  - The game runs smoothly on 
 my 7900GT with all the details set on maximum;
  
  The bad:
  - Poor controls - mouse has the x360 acceleration curve which is absolutely disastrous for the 
 PC;
  - The game freezes or crashes on many computers (hasn't happen to me - yet, but I know a few people 
 who have this problem) ;
  - Limited number of activations on limited number of computers;
  - Widescreen implementation is faulty - luckily a 3rd party tool has been released that fixes this 
 issue. Still, I shouldn't have to go looking for 3rd party programs;
  - Tech support is nowhere to be found although the official forums are swarming with complaints;
 
  - Still no PC patch.
  
  So there you have it, 4 pro's and 6 con's that totals up to a rating of 4.
  
  Bottom line, 
 it's a good game for the PC but it definitely needs a patch to address all the current issues users 
 are experiencing.
  
  I did pay the same $55 for it - same price like the x360 version - so I guess a patch for the PC 
 is in order. But a patch for the x360 was released instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  It's amazing. The very first playable scene in this game... I thought it was a cutscene until a 
 message popped up saying using W A S D keys to move . I was blown away by the graphics from the 
 start (keep in mind I have dual 8800GTX's, 2.66 quad core, 3 gigs of ram) and almost every new 
 corner amazes me.
  
  Another thing that really got me was how fast I got into the story. It's a VERY well written, acted, 
 and original plot that just pulls you right in and is very hard to break yourself away from. The 
 setting matches the plot perfectly as well and the most gripping part of this entire is of course... the 
 atmosphere. Such a chilling, dark, mysterious place the underwater city of Rapture is. The sounds, 
 the lighting, the visuals are just really beyond words. The entire time you just have this erie 
 feeling that something bad was about to happen. The enemies are fairly diverse and well thought 
 out and the weapons you are given fit in perfectly with everything else. This game is hard to expalin 
 without writting a lot of text but fairly easy to play. I was able to just jump right in and figure 
 everything out pretty quickly but trust me when I say the weapons and choices are VERY unique.
 
  
  Also, after many many many hours of playtime, I have yet to have a single crash or bug (knock on 
 wood) . Game seems to be VERY stable, even though I'm running Vista premium 32 bit. So of course 
 I highly recommend this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lev_six
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock has been given 10 out of 10 on many sites. I'm not sure what game they were playing.
 
  
  From a graphical standpoint, it is great. A lot of work went into the patterns, design, and visuals. 
 I liked that a lot. I give that a 9.5.
  
  The gameplay, however, mimics the standard fps weapon system in many ways, offering its own custom 
 touches with plasmids.
  
  The replay value is nil, unless you want to just do the exact same thing again on a more difficult 
 setting. It tends to be linear and specific. Every battle won't be the same twice but they tend 
 to be boring after a while.
  
  What makes you jump out of your seat at first will have you bored in 2 hours.
  
  I'm about 
 65% through the game and I don't even want to finish it. It doesn't really interest me. It doesn't 
 help the boredom factor that you end up having to traverse the same level multiple times for various 
 dumb tasks... go fetch this typical garbage.
  
  This game is very, very over rated. Graphically, it is enjoyable and the atmosphere is cool. Unfortunately, 
 you become used to it and then there is not a whole lot left for this game to offer.
  
  For $50 I don't think it's worth it.
  UPDATE: Finished it. The review stands. Very boring after 
 a while. A generic product with zero replay value, wrapped in a pretty package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Crazy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  With out a dought, a lot of fun. Freaky/Creepy story line and save anywhere absolutly rules. A 
 little linear and the mouse settings need tweaking but that's minimal. Game play was sweet with 
 suprisingly good A. I. . Graphics were pretty sweet. (Had everything maxed out baby!) But still think 
 Doom Gfx rule. The real deal is the A. I. when fighting big daddies. Great job 2K. The gun turrent's 
 and camera's are fun, as are the plasmids. The weapon's are pretty standard but lotsofun. Especially 
 the wrench. A whole lotta thumpin goin on. (he he he) Sound was decent, and the puzzles were fairly 
 easy, but overall a good balance. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  Well, it's everything it's supposed to be, and yea, i'm not exactly thrilled. Everyone says "it's 
 not about the gameplay, it's about the story!" but can't a game have good gameplay and a great 
 story? (fear comes to mind) i beat it, but the combat was unsatisfying and grew stale after only 
 a couple of hours. the pathetic difficulty makes it so you can go through the game while not really 
 paying attention, which is a shame because of the extremely detailed environments. I thought the 
 good ending was stupid and cleashay (i cant spell) . the graphics were great, and i loved the plasmids. 
 the hacking grew tiresome after a short time. the sound was decent, but nothing spectacular. it 
 was also very linear, which was dissapointing considering that non linearity was promised. the 
 plot was great, save the ending, and eventually i'll play through for the bad ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtryon
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  I don&acute; t know what happens with people like 2k Games gays, selling games before real testing. 
 It&acute; s looks like a unfinished game or something cause me, and a bunch of other people -see 
 the forums-, have a recurrent problem with this great looking game, and that&acute; s simply a pain 
 you know where. Almost every time I tried to play the game in my PC - I have a Nvidia Geforce 8800 
 Grafics Card, with Windows Vista, 2k RAM and a Asus Motherboard with Core Duo- it freezes and appears 
 a window saying there&acute; s a problem with the bioschok. exe. Its frustrating. Why we have to 
 pay to wait a patch that solve problems like that?. It is not fair!. It seems that we have to wait 
 for the patch to enjoy this game, and there&acute; s no notice about that in the web page or the 
 Technical Support. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kippesd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  This game didn't have the native wide screen frame of vision that I'm usually used to. There is 
 a very easy to use third-party hack (until 2K officially patches the problem) that remedies the 
 situation. There, I got the only negative think about BioShock out of the way.
  
  There are so many strengths and accomplishments to this game it is hard to find where to start.
 
  
  The story is fantastic. It will draw you in. You will meet many interesting and varied characters... who 
 do you trust in this underworld utopia gone wrong?
  The voice acting is absolutely top-notch. Your character remains silent throughout the game but 
 the constant radio chatter and conversations move the story along where it will certainly take 
 some twists and turns you will not be expecting. The game starts with you falling in a plane crash 
 in the middle of the ocean... really, KUDOS to the team at 2K for taking away any sort of preconceived 
 notions you may have about what this game is about. FPS action with definite RPG player progression 
 as well as good old adventure hunting around this devastated wonderland... what happened here?
 
  
  Play and find out, you will surely not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is one of the most anticipated PC/Xbox 360 games of 2007 and it has finally arrived. It's 
 nothing short of a masterpiece. The game starts off with the main character, named Jack, on a plane 
 traveling over the Atlantic when it suddenly crashes into the ocean. You see a lighthouse and you 
 swim toward it and discover a long lost utopia called Rapture. Thus your adventure begins. First 
 off, the story is amazing, I mean, its engaging and it makes you think. Games like Halo and F. E. A. R. 
 have good stories in game standards but Bioshock manages to transcend these standards by drawing 
 on modern literature (such as Ayn Rand) . The graphics are simply amazing, the Unreal Engine 3 really 
 shines and the environments are detailed, giving you a sense that Rapture is real. Sound is just 
 as good, and you'll lots of recordings of how everything devolved at Rapture. There's also alot 
 of 50's music, adding a nice sense of place and time. The only problem is the sounds sometimes 
 stutter ( a known bug) . The gameplay here is a mixed bag however. The good part is the customizability. 
 Like an RPG, you can add skills (plasmids, tonics) to yourself so you're better equipped to handle 
 enemies. Using plasmids is fun, and you'll play through it again just to try different combinations. 
 The bad part is the gun play. Bioshock is also a FPS, but the weapons don't really have weight 
 to them, not like F. E. A. R. Although they look cool, the FPS part plays very traditionally, like 
 Doom 3 or Quake 4 where you carry like 10 weapons. Another part is the dying. Its like Prey, you 
 die you get resurrected with the game world exactly as you left it. This could be considered a 
 cheat cause when fighting tough enemies like the Big Daddy, you just wear them down, come back 
 to life, and continue. Despite these problems, Bioshock still impresses. The requirements may be 
 high to the eye, but the game runs pretty well and is quite optimized. This would've gained a perfect 
 10, but the flaws I mentioned managed to stick out a little, but still, its worth the journey. 
 Bioshock is not about gameplay, its about story, and that worth the price alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  Man, I don't even know where to start for this game. This is probably one of the best games for 
 360 no doubt. I had so much fun playing this game and there were so many twists and turns and the 
 graphics are simply AMAZING. The story can get confusing after a while but overall this game is 
 one of the best for the 360. It's more of a buy game then a rent game. The weapon selections are 
 amazing, and you get to customize then to how you wish. Specially you get get powers like freeze 
 and bee swarm. I mean how can you go wrong with that? It's like your un-beatable with all of the 
 things you can do.
  So if you are thinking of going to buy this game I would go out and buy it now!
  
  PS: Please 
 do this game on HIGHER then easy. I mean seriously there is no challenge at easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people have trouble deciding whether to buy this game on the pc or the xbox 360. The only 
 thing the xbox 360 version offers that the pc does not are achievements. The computer blows away 
 the xbox 360 in graphics if you have a high end machine. I am running 8800 gts, 1680 x 1050 resolution, 
 x-fi sound card, and quad core processor. I can run the game at its highest setting no problem. 
 After playing both the xbox 360 version and the pc, the pc is a no brainer. Don't be fooled with 
 screenshot comparisons, the game is not even close when you see it in motion. Also, the computer 
 has support for playing with a xbox 360 controller for all of you that don't like to use the mouse 
 and keyboard. Now, to the review. The game is a classic that should be put in the same catagory 
 as half-life 2. The graphics, the story, the best sound in any game I have heard so far, and all 
 the different weapons and plasmids and ways to take down the bad guys is what makes this game the 
 complete package. The game should take you 20 hours or so if you take your time and explore this 
 underwater masterpiece. If you just run through the objectives, you can probably do it in 10 to 
 12 hours. You make choices in the game that will effect whether you get the good ending or the 
 bad guy ending. So the game offers some replay value just to see a different ending, however, the 
 endings are too short in my opinion. Also, other than the big daddies and some of the bosses, the 
 other enemies in the game are kind of boring looking and very repetitive. More variation in characters 
 would have been nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whermacht02
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  You can notice just by playing the first part of the game that the designers drew their inspiration 
 from System Shock 2. The hybrids are now Splicers, the Psi Powers are now plasmids, the cibernetic 
 modules are now Adam, and even the audio log concept was borrowed.
  This isn't exactly a bad thing. After all, System Shock 2 is one of the greatest games to ever 
 be released.
  Almost all of its features made their way to Bioshock. My only gripe about this was that they didnt 
 implement the inventory and research system.
  Speaking about the graphic detail, the devs made an excellent job. The 1960 style helps build the 
 atmosphere as well as the lightning and shadows. The city was carefully modelled. You can actually 
 feel that the city was thrown into civil unrest and riots due to the damage that it suffered.
 
  The characters are well developed, everyone clearly shows his or her ideals through the audio 
 logs that are scattered through the city. The story is ok, though there are some plot holes on 
 it that were not answered (hopefully they will be answered on the sequel, if there is one) .
  Now lets talk about the not-so-good aspects of the game. The enemies are very, very repetitive 
 (even in the later stages of the game, when you encounter differente types of Splicers) . The game 
 does not punish the player for dying. If you die, you just re-spawn on the closest chamber (on 
 the other hand, on System Shock 2 took away some of your nanites when you died) . Most of the enemies 
 are fairly easy to defeat (just use the 1-2 punch: electro-bolt + wrench, other combinations are 
 fairly obvious, like use incinerate and when the enemy jumps into the water, use electrobolt) . 
 And rescuing or harvesting the little sisters has little impact on the game (other than the ending 
 cinematic) .
  All in all, Bioshock is a very enjoyable experience. Though it might give that deja-vu feeling 
 to old System Shock 2 veterans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyros3588
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be the most intense 1st person-shooter I have EVER played. Not only does the story 
 line pull you along like an episode of the Twilight Zone... but it leaves you on the edge of your 
 seat at every turn. Not to mention that it will scare the crap out of you in certain situations. 
 Sometime, (especially if you play in the dark) you actually feel like you are in the game, complements 
 of the amazingly interactive A. I. Without its ice-pick wielding baddies and Big Daddies, this would 
 be just another shoot'em-up gorefest. Bioshock gives new life to all that is 1st person gaming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultra-Fatality
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  Bioshock introduces you to a metropolis known as Rapture where things have seriously gone wrong 
 thanks to Adam (the currency in this game) , demented humanoids known as splicers now roam the deserted 
 streets and malls of Rapture looking for Adam, so do the little sisters (protected by massive-machine 
 creature known as a Big Daddy) who are the main focus of this game. This game is a Masterpiece 
 in terms of story and innovation, however it has its flaws. For a start it is way too easy because 
 every time you die you just respawn a little distance back and there is no penalty for death. The 
 story in this game is amazing for an FPS and is actually comparable to many RPG's, it is worth 
 mentioning that this game is also pretty lengthy for a FPS. This game is revolutionary, the weapons 
 are innovative and fun to use but the real innovation lies behind the plasmids which are gene tonics 
 that change your DNA thus enabling you to fire electricity, fire, ice, bees e. t. c out of your hand. 
 The environements are interactable for example if there are blocks of ice they can be melted with 
 the fire plasmid, if enemies are standing in water they will be zapped if you fire the electricity 
 plasmid into the water e. t. c
  
  The visuals in this game are Outstanding, technically this game looks amazing (the water and fire 
 look too good to be true) , but artistically it looks even more amazing, the developers of this 
 game were very creative in drawing the art designs and it shows, artistically this is easily the 
 best FPS i have ever played. the lack of Multiplayer in this game is also very annoying, this game 
 is a replayable game (although not very) however the lack of multiplayer is baffling because I 
 am sure they could have made a decent multiplayer. This game was not worth the 29.99 GBP i spent 
 on it as I completed it once and now its just crammed into my desk untouched for a month or so. 
 Dont buy it, rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantey1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Before I start, lets get one thing out of the way: I dont play first person shooters. I just 
 dont like them. I tried before to play this genre, but firs person shooters are just not for me. 
 But with BioShock it is different. I seem to like this game. I will say more: this is great game. 
 So in some way, this can show how good this game is, if it appeals to a gamer, that doesnt like 
 FPS.
  
  The game starts in a plane. The main character is in that plane. Suddenly, the plane crashes. You 
 find yourself in the middle of the ocean. The only way to safety is to swim your way to a tower. 
 When you enter the tower, you find a bathysphere. When you enter it, it takes you to underwater 
 city called Rapture. It was built by a man named Andrew Ryan. It was meant for a place free of 
 religion. Where people can fulfill their dreams. And at first, it makes a big impression. But when 
 you get there. You notice that something is wrong. The city is wrecked. And by the course of the 
 game you find out what happened here.
  
  As you play, you will find weapons. You start with a wrench, but after some period of time, you 
 will get a pistol, machinegun, shotgun and some more. But ones you will find a gun, it doesnt 
 end there. If you get a feel, that tour favorite weapon is starting to do less damage to tour enemies, 
 you can upgrade it. But even with upgrades, somewhere in the end of the game your weapon will start 
 to grow week. For example, it may take two close hits with a shotgun then one. And I mean very 
 close hits. About two or three meters close to your enemy. This fact makes you use plasmids. They 
 are your special power, that you collect trough out the game. Plasmids allow you to shoot fire, 
 ice, lighting and bees. They also can make one of your enemies attack another, or make a decoy 
 of you. There are lots of plasmids with different powers. In addition, there are tonics. Unlike 
 plasmids, they give you passive power. Some give you more defense, some make your plasmid attacks 
 more powerful. You may get plasmids and tonics just by finding them, but the main way to get them, 
 is to bay them at vending machines. But you dont by them for money. Instead you pay with ADAM.
 
  
  To get ADAM you must find little sister. They are these little girls that were genetically modified 
 to harvest ADAM from dead bodies. But to get a little sister, you must kill a big daddy. Big daddies 
 are guardians of little sisters. They are tough and may take some time to kill. After you killed 
 one of them, you can go to the little sister and make a choice. You may harvest or rescue her. 
 If you harvest her, you will get the most Adam out of her, but then you will kill her. If you rescue 
 her, you will get less Adam, but save her life. This can make you feel morally better and it has 
 an impact on your further game.
  
  Players may find this game appealing for its story and atmosphere. Rapture really makes this feel 
 of lost hope. The most often enemy that you will encounter are splicers. They are citizens of Rapture. 
 Before Rapture they were artists, musicians and scientists. But because of ADAM they went mad. 
 The only thing that they need is ADAM. But they are not some kind of zombies or something like 
 that, they are living people. And this irony, that great people came to Rapture for ultimate freedom, 
 became slaves of their own want for power, makes a big impression. Plus there are all these details. 
 Broken electric wires, liking water from the glass roof, splicers taking nonsense. By one they 
 are not so important, but together they make this atmosphere of Rapture. The story at start may 
 seem a bit week, but somewhere in the middle everything becomes clear to you. Then you get really 
 evolved.
  
  From a graphical stand point, BioShock looks great. Especially the water. You can really see that 
 there was made a big effort to make the water look as realistic as possible. But if for you BioShock 
 is just another good locking shooter, then you are missing something. There is much more then pretty 
 graphics. Take sound for example. It is on a very high level. The actors make a very good job of 
 voicing. Practically everywhere the voice is great. The tone, the intonation and actor play in 
 just perfect for the needed situation.
  
  The only problems that BioShock has is its a little week story at some points, especially at the 
 mid-start of the game and the weakness of conventional weapons at the end of the game. In addition, 
 there are no visual difference form splicers at the start of the game from splicer at the end.
 
  
  In the end, BioShock makes a very good impression. It may have some minor problems, but the great 
 story and atmosphere more than makes up for it. And dont forget the great visuals, high quality 
 voices and the interesting setting. I really recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HimHvoHitman
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  When I first opened the demo of this game I was completetly blown away by the cenematic graphics 
 and the overall feel. When you get on top of the water in the beginning, it's just like: Okay, 
 is this a videogame?! 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  At the beginning of the game I think the gameplay is some of the best I've EVER played. I just 
 couldn't stop playing when I got the real game. I thought: If it's going to continue this way, 
 it'll get 10 in gameplay. 
  
  It didn't. I think the horror in the beginning was the thing that hooked me. A few levels in and 
 you'll notice that it's just gameplay and no horror. The big daddy's are cool and I love the fights, 
 there might just be a bit too many pairs of them and little sisters in each level.
  
  I love the gameplay, but it should have kept surprising me like it did in the beginning. Therefore, 
 gameplay: 8,5
  
  Graphics:
  
  You'll get blown away. The envirements change a lot (Arcidia etc.) and it's looking so fantastic. 
 I have a high end PC with Dx10 running highest on all settings and it's the best graphics I've 
 ever seen in a videogame.
  
  Graphics gets: 10
  
  Sound:
  
  I had sorround sound when I played it and it was amazing though I have heard better. The voices 
 were repeated too many times.
  
  Sound gets: 8
  
  Value:
  
  You can't really play it that much, I played it one time on medium and one time on hard and I'm 
 not really feeling like playing it again. Maybe some time next year, I don't know.
  
  7,5
  
  Story:
  
  The story. It's amazing. I've got nothing more to say. The best since 
 Mafia and the twist at the end had me thinking about how cool the story was day and night. It feels 
 so much like everything is explained. Even the Vita Champers. Everything connects so well.
  
  People might say someting like: Where's all the toilets in the game, I mean, you see like 10 
 of them in the whole city! and Where are all the Splicers sleeping? . Remember folks, you are NOT 
 seeing all of Rapture, just parts of it.
  
  That was a sidenote.
  
  Story: 10
  
  Play it if you have a good PC. NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickaje
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  Despite of the great water effects, the game does not invent anything. It&acute; s a mix of Deus-EX 
 , Psychonauts and Dead to Rights (Puzzles) .
  
  Good - 1 -Graphics and monster are cool. 2 - The first level gives you a really good impression. 
 3 - Kill a Big Daddy it&acute; s really fan.
  
  Bad 1 - The sound not sync at all. 2 - There are fewer kind of Puzzles, after a while you get used 
 to solve it without thinking. 3 - The two ends available are soo poorly made that after spent hours 
 playing you will get shocked or should a say bioshocked with.
  
  Final quote: I hated both ends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambamatic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  First of all, it's a beautiful game to watch and play, but the gameplay isn't really all that fun. 
 The weapons are crappy and the aiming and firing system is rinky dink. The enemies are pretty stupid 
 and the big daddies are not fun to fight. The lack of any difficulty (no death penalty and vita 
 chambers everywhere) takes away from gameplay.
  
  The whole genetic modification system is pretty much just like a spell casting system from any 
 other RPG game, which pretty much equals:
  
  1. Same enemies get boring and aren't really fun to fight against in the first place.
  
  2. 
 Weapons suck
  
  3. Genetic mods (spells) aren't that good.
  
  There really is nothing new under the sun in this game. Save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Human_Flaw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is a game that is hard to describe.
  
  On the one hand it is an absolutely gorgeous and immersing first person shooter experience. The 
 under water city of Rapture is truly unique and the real star of the game. It might not be 100% 
 original, taking its cue from Atlantis, but it manages to convey a real sense of Paradise Lost 
 once you arrive and see what has become of one man's grand vision and its soulless citizens.
  
  Rapture and its various locations are rendered beautifully using the new Unreal Engine 3. It 
 uses both DX9, and DX10 respectively depending on hardware and OS.
  
  The other production values (voice acting; art direction) are also top notch and help add to the 
 in-game experience as a whole. However, the game play itself brings nothing new to the genre and 
 boils down to the cliched formula of hunt for this object/person, kill bad guys along the way, 
 loot bodies and chests, upgrade plasmids, rinse and repeat. It becomes tedious and repetitive after 
 the first 10 hours or so, and not even the story line is that compelling (or original) to make 
 you want to continue on to the end. Not to mention the story is told through nothing but voice 
 acting on tape recorders you find through out the game. This is a very passive way to tell a story 
 and doesn't quite immerse you as much as the developers had hoped. In fact, you can skip these 
 and it doesn't impact or detract from the experience at all.
  
  What does make you want to continue on is the city of Rapture itself. You want to see what new 
 and unique area the city is going to show you next. This only reinforces that fact Rapture is the 
 real star of this game and without it all you are left with is an average first person shooter 
 with added abilities (plasmids) that mimic a very light RPG. But it still isn't enough to make 
 up for the repetitive and unimaginative nature of the core game play.
  
  Bioshock is a definitely a game one should try if they like first person shooters. But they shouldn't 
 expect something groundbreaking, or genre defying as a lot of the press releases and other sources 
 promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: will477
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 12:25 am PT
Review:  The game looks great. It has nice shadows, great lighting effects, and visuals portray a stunning 
 the 1960s underwater atmosphere. As for the atmosphere, it is really what makes the game. It is 
 a combination of the great visuals, superb music, fantastic voice acting, engrossing story, and 
 creepy yet interesting characters. I played the game in a darkroom with surround sound headphones, 
 and from the moment I swam to shore froma plane crash (which is how the storybegins) , I was immeresed 
 in the atmosphere.
  
  The story seems rather interesting too, but I am only about one third into the game, so it is bound 
 to get better (at least that is what I have heard from others, and I have every reason to believe 
 that they areright at this point) .
  
  There is no multiplayer, but the gameplay is also great. The combat system that combines both guns 
 andplasmids allows for a vareity of methods to kill off enemies, whichgives the game good replay 
 value and makes it rather innovative.
  
  I definatley like Bioshock, and even with a ton of great games out right now, I am certain that 
 it will get some of my time (which of course it scarce now that Halo 3 is out too) . Anyway, I'm 
 very happy that I picked up Bioshock, and I would definately recommendto any fansof FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianpoetzel
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying bioshock is a beautiful game. Other than that it's a pretty average 
 run of the mill shooter. My first problem is with the way the story is told. Instead of having 
 us experience it like in HL2 it goes for telling it to us through tape recordings. That's fine 
 but it makes it feel like anything on those tapes has little or no importance because it's all 
 after the fact. I would have liked it if they went 100% with the ghost flashbacks. At least it 
 gives the illusion that you were there. Also, the story is almost 100% done by the time you get 
 to rapture. It's Because the story has played out you have virtually no impact on it at all. You 
 just run around rapture and fight splicers. There is little to nothing actually going on while 
 you are there.
  
  Third, there is no consequence to how you play. The game plays out 100% the same way whether or 
 not you harvest the sisters. The only difference is the 15 second clip ending. One is good and 
 one is evil. If you are looking to kill some time with a beautiful game then pick this up. Otherwise, 
 there are better games out there that you could be playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: analogmix
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok well Unless you have a kick ass machine like dual 3 gig htz or better this game will not run 
 well. The graphics are outstanding and the detail great. The story is also good along with a helpful 
 hint system. The minimum requirements are understated for sure. Ok, in order for this game to run 
 liquid smooth you will need the best of machines, at the games highest setings. This game will 
 not run well even on a fast machine, In short it's a hog. Ok, the learning cure is short and easy 
 to learn. . I don't know if this game supports 4 processore but if it did that would probably make 
 a big difference. This game is fun and has a good but demented story line. So if you have a fast, 
 and I mean very fasy machine then great get it and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helter_Macto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is a game like no other. The environment and story of this game are very unique! Although 
 the set back of the game is the sound is off and that can be very irritating at times. The graphics 
 of this game are some of the most amazing i have ever seen. When your fighting a Big Daddy and 
 you get thrown about your vision will actually get blurred. The water looks insanely real! I found 
 that I even jumped at a few parts! The game has a lot to offer if your willing to spend the time 
 to fully explore the world of Rapture! All in all, this is an amazing game and I highly recommend 
 it to anyone who enjoys a good FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kurtizz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Story: 10/10
  I've never seen making such an effort for a good story in a shooter before.
  The story reveals you things about how Rapture used to be, how it changed and because of what and 
 many more things.
  But what surprised me the most was that when you found out who you really are, and who Atlas really 
 is. I really didn't expected this. You get sucked in the story.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  At first it was getting accustomed to using your Plasmids,
  but after a while you have total 
 control over them and when you have to use them. You can do some cool combo's like: First kill 
 a splicer, use Incinerate on the dead splicer, switch to Telekinesis, throw the burning corpse 
 to another splicer. Now you have a brutal instant kill.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  I couldn't set my settings all on high, but I gave it a go for a while on high.
  Wow, it looked 
 beautiful. I was absolutely stunned for a while.
  Till now these are the best graphics I have seen.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  I couldn't really enjoy 
 the sound because i don't have a good sound card.
  I have a standard. So I can't really say much about it.
  But I can say that the sounds of your 
 weapons, bullets glancing off,...
  are very nicely done. The only spiteful thing is when there is for example
  a turret firing, 
 a splicer shooting you with a machine gun and you are firing back, you hear less of the hostile 
 firing. But maybe it's just my sound card.
  
  Value: 9/10
  This game has a wide variety of how you can undertake your enemies.
  Because the sphere is pulling 
 you in, it keeps interesting.
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  This game is so addictive because of the interesting story.
  You want to know so many things 
 of this place and it's inhabitation.
  
  Overall: 9.2/10
  This game has everything you expect of a shooter.
  You have a whole lot of action, some freedom, 
 several approaches,...
  
  -Kurtizz- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fueledonmusic1x
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  When i first played BioShock, I was overwhelmed of how great the game was. The graphics are top 
 notch. No other PC game can match up to graphics this great. If you hav a decent graphics card 
 like 116 MB then BioShock will run decently well on medium settings ( with few adjustments) . If 
 you hav a 512 mb video card, then you'll find no problems running around Rapture gazing at the 
 beautiful world. The graphics are too good to be true.
  
  Gameplay isn't a great issue. I like the plasmids and the different type of guns. All the guns 
 are well detailed and are for the most part satisfying. The best part of this game is a showdown 
 with the Big Daddy and you'll be satisfied of how difficult it is to take him down. The sound is 
 really good. The water sounds are great and makes it feel as if your really underwater. When you 
 walk down stairs or jump, walk through the water, the sound of your footprints are really satisfying.
 
  
  Storyline is good for the most part, but the overall feeling of the problem you'll face about what 
 to do with the Little Sisters is really nice and deep.
  
  Overall, BioShock is a great game and i would; ve really given it a 9.7 but 10 works as well =P 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mstrstud22
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is an awesome experience for any gamer, veteran or noob. The graphics are amazing, DX 
 10 at its finest. The style is so interesting and takes the player on an amazing experience with 
 the old 40s qualities and amazingly gripping story. Any true gamer not only deserves but NEEDS 
 this game in their library. You could spend hours just exploring the huge underwater city discovering 
 the insane attention to detail. A grade A game by anyone's standards, two thumbs way up! Now I'm 
 just going to talk about random nothiness until I reach 100 words. I'll let you know when I do 
 because I'll probably just quit typing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psp_coder
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Now as the title says this is A near perfect game....... Ruined by DRM Security 
  I Will first go about describing the bad points (DRM) And the good points (Everything else :0 ) 
 Ok, well DRM is a thing that BioShock has.... and it completely ruins the game! First off, you can 
 only install this game 5 times. So lets say you have a virus, and you decide to format your hard 
 drive. ok thats 1 gone, you then think oh, windows is crap, ill install MAC thats another 1 gone, 
 and it gos on like this until you have no installs left! this is meant to combat piracy, but i 
 feel like shouting..... WAKE UP 2K!!! THIS HAS ALREADY BEEN CRACKED!!!! this HAS Already been cracked. 
 Hell i downloaded a crack after i brought the game because i hate DRM!
  
  now onto the good things. This has to be one of the most atmospheric games of 2007. While you are 
 fighting a Big daddy (The Divers) you will go flying all over the place and your vision will go 
 blurred and it will FEEL real. the graphics are near perfect. And the water looks freakily real.....*Shudders* 
 The sound is brilliant, but the game tries to present a moral choice to you. Kill or Save..... this 
 has no affect on the game play. Yes it affects the ending and you get a little less from Saving 
 them, but thats about it. I would buy this game. IF YOU ARE GOING TO DOWNLOAD THE INSTALLATION 
 CRACK!!!!! If you dont, then well..... say goodbye to your PC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VGLeo34
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is probably one of the best games futuristic shooters the 360. I know, it's like being 
 the favorite Jew in Iran. But it's still great!
  
  Story: The story is based off Ayn Rand's classic novels and books. This is given away immediatley 
 in the game. For Andrew Ryan (get it!? Ayn-Andrew
  Ryan-Rand! Oh the wit!) is your nemesis in the first part of the game. But that changes. Anyway, 
 the story is that A man gave humans perfection and in turn it went down the crapper. So youve got 
 to make less crappy.
  
  Graphics: This is 2nd to Halo 3 only in graphics. Everything is so real and so amazing. It really 
 is breathtaking.
  
  Controls: Okay here's the only problem in the game, the controls. But only in one way,
  and that 
 is that instead of using the A Button to jump you use the Y button to jump. But Besides that it's 
 great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarunramesh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Well first let me start of by saying i expected better, the game did have lots and lots of good 
 point but it just became plain boring after a while,
  
  Pros:
  good graphics
  very nice level design
  cool genetic modifications which allow a fun style of play
  BIG DADDIES!!
 
  good story
  
  Cons:
  later on it becomes like ok everyother tonic sucks let me just do the same thing i always do and 
 fry him and hit him later in the game it ends up being like just another fps.
  This was the biggest problem with it as it made the game become repetitive.
  
  Id say if you 
 could get it for mabye 30 bucks then its probably worth it but i wouldnt pay full price for it.
 
  
  Till next time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThornFalconeye
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, but falls short of its System Shock 2 roots mostly because of how long it 
 is. I played this game first on medium, beat it in about 12 hours. The first time through, I loved 
 the story and the mysterious atmosphere, but after playing it through on hard, and realizing that 
 there is no incentive or bonus to using most of the powers other than ice, electricity, and the 
 enrage or security ones, I found that the game really has no replay value. The sound is brilliant 
 throughout most of it, graphics are quite good, although it looks almost exactly the same on max 
 DX10 as it does on medium with DX9. All the hard difficulty does is give enemies more health, so 
 instead of adding more tactics and the like to the Big Daddy fights, i found myself standing still 
 chugging medpacks and using the shotgun to kill the rushing ones because you cannot dodge them. 
 This game is worth a bargain price, but for the full $50, you may as well get a copy of Morrowind 
 and System Shock 2, because those will be a much better buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ciobi82
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  I could say many good things about this game. Like good graphics, good design, good game play, many 
 possibilities to play (I for one plaid this game like an RPG with plasmids, and very rare used guns) , and 
 one or two bad thing that disturbed me was when you are supposed to be dressed like someone else 
 but your hands have the same cloths, and you cant see your feet in this game.
  But!.. the best of all things about this game is the story, the characters, how well they interpret 
 their role. You rarely see something like this in a video-game. This game has an escort mission, and 
 I must tell you, this is the only game that actually mead me feel about the person I was escorting. I 
 am not kidding you I was so immersed in the game's story that I actually was afraid for the person 
 I was escorting not to die. Now,... if a game realizes to do that with a player ,I thing his mission 
 is done! And from me it gets a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarcadoz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  Welcome to svetiboy's perspective on BioShock . In this review I will tell you why this amazing 
 game by 2K deserves a top-rating of 9.5 but first off I would like to give you the critical test 
 machine specs as a reference: E6700, P35-DS3P, 2GB CORSAIR DDR2 and an MSI NX8800 GTS.
  
  My desire to keep this review short and simple is almost impossible to fullfil since BioShock offers 
 so much to a passionate gamer. It is an astonishing game in every possible aspect and really sucks 
 you in if you are willing to spend some time discovering the intriguing underwater realm of Rapture.
 
  
  The game puts you almost right into the action. No time wasted on a painfully long introductory 
 sequence. Just the basics: It's 1960 and your plane crashes right in the middle of the atlantic 
 ocean. After a short struggle underwater you reach the surface and suddenly realise the shocking 
 truth: the game has already started! Oh, and you're also the only survivor. The first thing you 
 notice is the breathtaking power of the Unreal 3 engine. The water looks so beautiful that you 
 don't want to move out at all. And after taking your time to recover from the visual shock you 
 begin your descent towards the twisted underwater city called Rapture .
  
  So BioShock is just another FPS? Absolutely not! It includes role-play elements as your character 
 becomes stronger over time and grants you a freedom hardly ever found in FPS games to date. The 
 story is thrilling and presents you with a couple of interesting political and ethical points-of-view 
 as well as an interesting but predictable turn later on. One thing to notice is that there is no 
 tutorial, because you don't need one. Everything you need to know - from handling plasmids to hacking 
 machines - is explained to you whenever the concept is first introduced. This maintains a great 
 pace throughout the game since it constantly provides you with fresh options to spice up your underwater 
 existence.
  
  To sum up those options and original concepts: there are plasmids which rewrite your DNA and grant 
 you different powers to customize your style of play. There are tonics which provide you with a 
 constant passive bonus. There are different types of ammo from which you can pick the most effective 
 one for a certain enemy. There are invention machines which you can use to create useful things 
 out of useless junk you find on your way. And there are machines that can only be used once and 
 offer a couple of powerful customizations and improvements for a weapon of your choice.
  
  What else there is to say? BioShock is more than just the great graphics, storyline, weapons, enemies, 
 music and design. It feels and plays as a whole. Everything perfectly fits into the whole concept 
 and provides a memorable experience to keep you thrilled for many hours. One funny thing is the 
 vita-chamber. In BioShock you just can't die. If you do you will be revived at the nearest vita-chamber. 
 Whether this is an advantage or making the game too easy individually depends on the player.
  
  There are also some negative points to mention about BioShock. Otherwise this game would receive 
 a perfect 10/10 rating. When it comes to mouse control, the game's origin on the X360 becomes obvious. 
 There is a weird acceleration, you can't turn off. The sensitivity usually is way too high even 
 on the lowest setting. For me, the game would have been unplayable if it wasn't for the possibility 
 to modify the .ini files. But still, the acceleration couldn't be turned off. Whenever I attempted 
 to do that, the game started to feel and behave choppy. There is also an annoying sound issue. 
 Whenever there are many different sound sources in a scene the game would cut most of them and 
 leave me with just one or two sounds. Drivers are up to date and I'm using a Creative SoundBlaster 
 X-Fi. Weird.
  
  Apart from the bugs and steep system requirements, BioShock is revolutionary when it comes to game 
 design, philosophical and political background and simply quality. Everything has been designed 
 perfectly and it really has to be said that BioShock deserves the term milestone in gaming evolution 
 since it provides the sophisticated gamer of tomorrow with a quality gaming experience hardly found 
 in todays games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  from the second you get out of your plane wreak and swim to safety and have a look behind at the 
 burning oil and tail of plane slipping away things as you know or knew it are about to change. 
 Your first idea is in the divng bell that takes you to rapture. Pretty little city only problem 
 is its 20 fathoms under the water, and it leaks. a voice of a man called atlas guides you around 
 with a directional arrow, you can ignore it and snoop. snoop you must everything around you gives 
 you things to survive. hidden assets. the people in rapture are stuck in a 1958 newyears costume 
 party,. masks, weapons, and they love to kill, they can also trigger security bots out of the celings 
 walls, theres a saying let your conscience be your guide,,, well depending on what you do with 
 the little girls little sisters gives you different ends. little sisters have a drug called adam, 
 and a playmate called big daddy or me bubbles, mr bubbles is a man in a diving suite clogging along. 
 if you save the little girls they give you a small amount of Adam, and change, if you harvest them 
 kill them you get a lot of adam they change, the city has it all rich poor drs nurses patients 
 ghosts, very bizzare quests and everyones insane. talking vending machines remember you need to 
 check everything for goodies some machines will let you invent bullets, which you run out of or 
 health, there are many things to do and see and take in town, also look for tape machines which 
 give you info about people places and things, this is a deff keeper, over and over and you see 
 things differently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giro786
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  This is my best 2007 game ; i will not even wait for COD4 to make a comparison
  
  absolutely wonderful ; these little sister are soooooo creepy and what about thos big daddys that 
 were protecting them
  
  it is really like father and Sun
  
  and the famous quotes on the game ; you remeber the one about jesus loves me cauze the bible tells 
 me so
  
  this quote was very funny at this time
  
  i am so angry i didn't finish this game ; my VGA card is very old ( 9600 series )
  
  i will 
 wait till i get another card then i will play this game again
  
  sure i will ; the only game i played it more than once was maxpayne , but i think i will play this 
 one again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: match86
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  To be honest- I've waited so long for this title. When I first heard that Irrational Games are 
 trying to make spiritual successor of System Shock 2, I was very exited. And I'm not disappointed. 
 Bioshock combines what was so good about SS2 with great U3 engine, huge amount of playability and 
 atmosphere that sucks you in.
  
  You play as Jack. His plane crashes near a lighthouse somewhere in the Mid- Atlantic. Having nowhere 
 else to go, he decides to descent beneath the surface in bathysphere only to find himself deep 
 in the worst nightmare- the ruined city of Rapture. The plot is quite interesting as details surrounding 
 Rapture's demise are slowly revealed. You can also count on the great twist along the way as well 
 as giving some thought- provoking experience. The great feature is the variety of strategies that 
 can be used to get rid of the splicers- the insane addicts trying to kill you every second. Thanks 
 to the genetic modifications that will upgrade your character along the way, you can freeze them, 
 paralyze them, make security do the job for you, have Big Daddy as the bodyguard or whatever you 
 like. So, what's not to like here? The game is quite easy, since the is no death here. As you die 
 you get quickly revived in the nearest Vita chamber. It makes battles with more tough enemies like 
 Big Daddies easy, and when you get rocket launcher all becomes trivial. The ending is also not 
 very satisfying. You can end as the total bastard or the saviour. Summarizing- if you're bored 
 with typical shooters and not afraid using your brain to understand what it's all about, give bioshock 
 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billym004
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 12:54 am PT
Review:  The problem with this game begins and ends with the fact that everything about how your character 
 moves (no feet, everything looks zoomed in , so you find yourself having to constantly look around 
 to see much of anything) , to the plastic-looking characters, and ridiculously poor ballistics and 
 damage modeling, to the annoying as hell enemies you have to fight, to the graphics which feel 
 downright cartoonish -- all of this adds up to a mediocre experience. Could just be the Unreal 
 engine, which I don't care for at all. The game runs exceptionally smooth, however, considering 
 how polished it looks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pecone_Penev
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  When I started Bioshock for first time and started playing I wasreally amazed with the graphics, physics 
 and the special effects. Awesome! But later in the game I found out that there is issues with the 
 sound, first I thought that I will have to update my sound drivers, but even after I did that, the 
 seound kept going on and off on some places-I don; t eve know why.
  Just recently while I was playing the game froze and barely got out to windows desktop so I can 
 close the game. Turns out theere was a problem with the video driver-I ve recently updated that 
 as well-hopefully I wouldn't have any problems, but this is somewhat annoying.
  Other than that-the gameplay and everything else is amazing! Very good job on that-really fun to 
 play.
  Overall-great gameplay, great graphics, great game with some bugs and system issues! I will give 
 it 8.5 just because of the all system problems and offcorse the lack of multiplayer-with so many 
 possibilities in the game they should have created a multiplayer also! Would've made the game actually 
 awesome!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  Bioshock, Bioshock, Bioshock. So much talk about this game. Let me give it a try, shall I? Graphics:10/10
 
  
  Graphics are simply awesome, the same Unreal engine 3 but now with a real phisics engine too, unlike 
 moh: airborne. The coloured texture go really good with the world of Rapture.
  
  Sound:10/10
  
  Simply superb sound effects, blood curdling but funny voice acting,&amp; excellent 
 music for the atmosphere. What else?
  
  Gameplay:10/10
  
  Origiality. Not only shoot all enamies, but use different tonics &amp; plasmids on them &amp; you. Electro 
  big daddy,&amp; telekinesis, with which you can take objects, or 
 even grab projectiles, grenades &amp; trow them back.
  
  Storyline:10/10
  
  Not only the main story counts, so do the audio journals scattered troughout Rapture.
  
  PS: Gamespot, I 
 want the old review system! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richboy999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  Bio shock delivers it all great game play amazing graphics and a twisting story line. There are 
 also millions of ways to kill people you can electrocute them or burn them or whack them with a 
 really huge wrench! Or you can choose the classic way to kill them and pump some lead into their 
 body's. The controls are also pretty easy on the keyboard but i prefer a X-BOX 360 wireless controller 
 because the buttons are way closer. Also if you are a horror game fan then lucky you there are 
 a few **** scenes in the game. Also if your not doing the storyline your are either helping little 
 sisters find atom or your are on a killing spree with them or your hacking systems and droids to 
 help kill youre enemies. Well what else is there to say nothing so overall an amazing game and 
 must have for adventure and horror type players it can also be fun for first person shooter fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allicrombie
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  If you were to mention art to an art lover, you may get a variety of different names. Raphael, 
 Michelangelo, and Leonardo may be among them (ironically, you may get the same names if you mention 
 art to a classic cartoon lover as well, hehe) . Mentioning art to a movie buff may get you names 
 of classic films, such as Citizen Kane, Psycho, or On The Waterfront. As much as some people may 
 deny it, video games are a form of art, and Bioshock, while not perfect, may inevitably be one 
 of those names that come up when talking about art in terms of gaming.
  
  Drawing on elements of The Manchurian Candidate, Platos The Republic and Shirley Jacksons The 
 Lottery, Bioshocks story is one of its strongest selling points. You play as the nameless, faceless 
 protagonist (like the IRS) , whos plane goes down in the mid Atlantic. Luckily, (or unluckily, 
 as the case may be) , you swim to the relative safety of a nearby structure, which is home to a 
 bathysphere, which promptly whisks you off to the city of Rapture, an art deco stylized undersea 
 world, where the inhabitants have gone quite mad (think American McGee meets Atlantis) , where youre 
 immediate goal is to find some sort of escape, eventually catching the attention of Andrew Ryan, 
 the kid with two first names that all the other kids picked on, now the despotic ruler of Rapture. 
 If not with an iron fist, then Ryan almost certainly rules with a silver tongue, hes the kind 
 of villain you love to hate, like the sexy French teacher that gives you too much homework on Friday. 
 Simply calling Ryan a megalomaniac is probably doing him a disservice. Hes probably the most interesting 
 character youll run into in Rapture, from his attempts to block your forward progress through 
 the city, to his taunts and observations over your radio. Even though its now in shambles, Ryans 
 passion is Rapture, and he makes it clear early on, that hes not giving it up without a fight.
 
  
  But youre not quite alone on your trek through Rapture. As soon as you land in the city, youre 
 given a walkie talkie like radio, which tunes into your first real contact in the city, named Atlas. 
 (On Friday nights, you also get the best of the Rapture Philharmonic) . He loosely guides you through 
 various objectives, which are pretty easy to find, due to the fact that its almost impossible to 
 get lost, thanks to a nifty arrow like compass and a map and hint system (and its a good thing 
 too, since looking up to find the North Star doesnt work so well when youre in an undersea city) . 
 Of course, you dont have to follow the arrow, you can wander off on your own way, exploring every 
 nook and cranny of Rapture, and there are a lot of nifty items to find if you do, though the game 
 doesnt encourage this type of random wanton merry exploration, unfortunately.
  
  Youre also going to come across a ton of nifty weapons to use in your battles with the splicers 
 (genetically altered people whove taken a drink from the genetic alteration fountain once too 
 often and have gone insane, like people who watch too much Oprah, they wander aimlessly, looking 
 for their next fix) . Early on, youll find a trusty wrench, which becomes deceptively powerful 
 over the course of the game. Nothing like bashing skulls with a wrench to get the job done (Oh 
 yes, there will be skulls to bash) . For people that enjoy a more cowboy style of diplomacy to get 
 your point across, youll find pistols, machine guns, shotguns, a chemical thrower, and a mean 
 looking crossbow. Whats also nice is youll come across these Power to the People vending machine 
 type stations, which let you upgrade a gun one time, per station. You can increase the rate of 
 fire, or ammo supply or other options, on the different guns you may have come across to that point. 
 There are a couple of these in each level and are usually well hidden off the beaten track, though 
 explorers shouldnt have any trouble finding them.
  
  If youre low on ammo, or just tired of firearms altogether, you can elect to use plasmids, to 
 make splicers lives more interesting. Plasmids are powers you come across, or purchase from a 
 vending machine and turn your hand all sorts of neat colors (and give it some useful abilities 
 too!) , you can toss out devastating bolts of electricity (effectively turning you into Emperor 
 Palpatine from Star Wars, and really, who doesnt want to be that guy?) , toss flames at enemies, 
 shoot ice, throw insects at people, create cyclone traps, etc. Using plasmids depletes the little 
 mana like bar below your health. Splicers will twitch and convulse when shocked, (and fall dead 
 if shocked in a puddle of water) . Light one on fire and theyll run to the nearest pool of water 
 and dive in. Its little touches like this that really add to the game, and make you want to keep 
 playing. Youll also find tonics, which are like plasmids, only theyre more passive aggressive 
 (like your little brother) . You find em, you stick em in one of the specialized slots (combat, 
 physical, engineering, etc) , and they work, passively. Some help you with hacking, some increase 
 damage in combat, and some give you more health when you eat potato chips (if only Ruffles could 
 market something like that) .
  
  The easiest way to get plasmids and tonics is to spend ADAM, which you get from Little Sisters. 
 Unfortunately to get to the Little Sisters, you have to go through the Big Daddies, which are huge, 
 hulking dudes that slowly walk around, and crush anything that tries to harm a Little Sister. Theyre 
 pretty imposing at first, but just think of them as buffed up versions of David Hasselhoff, stuck 
 in a large diving suit, and they become a lot less threatening. There are two kinds of Big Daddies, 
 one that lobs frag grenades and mines at you and one that has a huge drill on one hand and tries 
 to drill you into next week. But hey, if you cant take down David Hasselhoff..
  
  Once youve taken down one of these souped up dudes, you get a choice, whether to harvest a little 
 sister or to free her. This moral choice isnt nearly as involved as in games like Knights of the 
 Old Republic, or Fable, its simply that harvesting nets you 160 ADAM while freeing them gets you 
 80, plus 200 every few freed and some nifty plasmids and such. Once you get your hands on a nice 
 stack of ADAM, you can spend it at the gatherers garden vending machines, nifty little violet-lit 
 machines with statues of the little sisters on the side. These are also the only machines you cant 
 hack (Hacking other machines, like ammo or general goods ones simply involves creating a path of 
 tubes for liquid to flow from one pipe to another and out. Its pretty easy, and gets progressively 
 more difficult, though tonics you can find/buy make this a lot easier) . Hacking gets you slightly 
 lower prices and sometimes access to items that wouldnt normally be available.
  
  Graphically, the game is a mixed bag of sorts. The opening touchdown is one of the best graphically, 
 in recent memory, and on your journey through Rapture, youll see lovely lighting and some of the 
 most drinkable water since that little unannounced tour of the Evian water factory. Some of the 
 textures though, dont look nearly as good, though I suppose it could be rust. The music and sound 
 effects are appropriately haunting and creepy. The weapon sounds work fine, as smashing someone 
 over the head with a wrench sounds just like it would in real life (er not that I would know anything 
 about that.) . You can hear the lamenting cries of the damned, as they wander through the city, 
 probably looking for you.
  
  Back-story isnt handled by traditional cut scenes, rather most of it is through little tape recordings 
 judiciously placed about the city, that recall thoughts of the now extinct inhabitants of the city. 
 There are occasional two second flashbacks here and there, but most of the story progresses over 
 the radio youre carrying.
  
  There are a few minor quibbles that keep Bioshock from being the perfect game, however (besides 
 the overall lack of nudity, that is) . Even on hard, the game is far from punishing, as the sparkly 
 vita-chambers populate many of the areas, making death in the game a minor inconvenience at worst. 
 Its rather easy to get killed, and pop back out at a nearby machine, only to resume the fight, 
 this time, with your life at full and whatever you were beating on, their life at whatever they 
 had previously. Other issues include weapon balance, as the various guns dont feel that much different 
 or more or less powerful than each other, or the wrench you find at the beginning of the game. 
 You could make an argument that, this isnt a typical first person shooter, nothing like Half Life, 
 or Halo, or F. E. A. R. and win some sympathy points, but still, in the long run, it really doesnt 
 seem to matter which weapon you use to blast your way through the hordes of splicers. Speaking 
 of, there arent that many different enemy types either. You get maybe a few different splicers, 
 and thats it, for the entire game. Bosses, when you come across them, are only buffer versions 
 of ones youve fought a billion times before. (If variety is the spice of life, no wonder Rapture 
 went down the tubes) .
  
  Complaints aside, there is still a lot to like here. Andrew Ryans Rapture may not be the utopian 
 world he hoped for (or the utopia of games, we hoped for) , but its still an entertaining journey, 
 full of danger, intrigue, and most importantly, David Hasselhoff. And who doesnt want a little 
 more of that? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultima_sword
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Rarely is a game released that has that great original feeling that you can't really find in any 
 other game. Bioshock is one of those games and will keep you entertained with the many different 
 skills and techniques you can use. The graphics are unbelievable and has realistic physics and 
 blood. Never have I played a game that I actually feel nauseous after hitting the enemies dead 
 corpses on the ground with a wrench when first playing. The story is great and takes place in the 
 1960's. Hardly any well known FPS were made in or around this time period and gives it that new 
 cool type of feeling. This game is a must buy for any 360 or PC owner . You can't point out any 
 real negatives about the game except the fact that your underwater all the time, but the levels 
 change scenery often, and you'll find yourself enjoying it. If you're looking for a new FPS game 
 that is new and original in many ways, I recommend buying Bioshock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barrysoff
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Had some serious problems when first starting to play Bioshock. The game froze several times, when 
 saving, when changing areas etc etc.
  
  Began a new game today and stayed with 2.0 sound and no subtitles. I'm not sure which of these 
 made the difference, but now it runs perfect. The graphics are awesome, the sound is amazing and 
 the gameplay is great!
  
  In order to fill out the word requirement, does anybody ready user reviews? Please message me if 
 you have read this - just to let me know if anyone has seen it at all...
  
  I have not gotten that long, still on the later (?) parts of the first misson. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimBurber
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  Bioshock may not be the most challenging game you could play this year, but it certainly will keep 
 you on edge. Rapture is so creepy that you won't fly through the game at top speed, you will most 
 likely be too busy marveling at the scenery and being startled by the enemies that somehow managed 
 to sneak up behind you and yell disturbing comments at you while clubbing you upside the head. 
 Too few first person shooters come along that have you more interested in the mystery of the story 
 and investigating said story rather than simply blasting moving things that are inside your crosshair. 
 Bioshock delivers this sort of experience and delivers it well, and that's what makes it great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cupher
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Bioshock, I didn't quite understand the meaning. But I can feel this game is 
 not that simple, it make me remember the fallout. Whereas fallout is mainly focus on the description 
 of the world, Bioshock is to tell story and express the philosophy from the designer. When I played 
 again, I had a deep thought. Is this the responsibility of the game to preach? Games are given 
 funs, they entertained the players. However, I think this game is great! Greater than other action 
 games in this year. I don't know why Gamespot give a 9 and actually it should be 9.5 or more, whereas 
 the World in Conflict, I think, is just soso. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strutter_uk
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  After becoming a little Tired of First Person Shooters since 'F. E. A. R.', this had my hopes up as 
 soon as I saw the preview videos online.
  
  I won't spoil the story or any of the surprises the game has for you, but for me this is easily 
 the most atmospheric and immersive FPS since Doom 3!
  
  The visuals are stunning, and it's nice to have a change to the usual future-esque Sci-Fi corridors 
 and have something different. As soon as I started the game and first entered Rapture I was truly 
 mesmerised by the detail and realism the visuals bring. The sound is eerily atmospheric making 
 good use of EAX, if a little buggy at times.
  
  The weapons and the upgrades is a cool idea, and works well. You can clearly play this game in 
 one of two ways. More as a 'gun slinger' or as a 'plasmid jockey'! I Preferred the guns myself, 
 but the plasmids provide much entertainment - Love the face you can hurl a grenade back at the 
 enemy and kill them! hahaha!
  
  I have completed this game now, and it has been constantly engaging from start to finish, the scenery 
 keeps on astounding you as the story unfolds you are evermore rewarded.
  
  My only slight criticism is that the 'finale' is over a bit to quickly, as is the ending sequence.
 
  
  On the whole though an EXCELLENT game that I'm glad to have experienced, sure I'll give it another 
 go on 'Hard'....
  
  If you think Halo's over-rated garbage like I do - Grab it now! ;o) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paulio77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is a piece of cinematic genius and should be nominated for an oscar, A brilliant and alluring 
 plot that goes hand in hand with the fantastic physics, graphics and eerie setting. Set in the 
 dirky depths of Rapture you will be used like an emotional ragdoll. Try as you may to become emotionally 
 detacthed you will eventually become an emotional quivering mess. Can you really harvest The Little 
 SIsters? Can you save Atlas family? Can you become a leader of men, defeat the Big Daddies and 
 the Splicer Army who haunt your every step with cries of anguish and insane laughter. Life topside 
 will never be the same.
  A True Gem
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndru01
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is more of a wander through a strange and unsettling world than an heart-pumping FPS. 
 There isn't anything here that advances the FPS genre (eg focusing on stealth vs shooting everything, 
 intelligent AI bots, etc) like Halo or FarCry did. Instead, the FPS format is used to tell a dark 
 story, a bit like American McGee's Alice. Having said this, the graphics are stunningly beautiful 
 and successfully give the player an unsettling feeling of an art-deco dystopia. They are also a 
 clever play on Ayn Rand's objectivist philosophy. The sound is fantastic, too, with all the eerie 
 background music and mutterings of the hidden slicers. You'll anxious when you hear an unseen splicer's 
 chatter from around the corner, or a big daddy's stomping becomes louder and louder as it approaches. 
 This game may be just the reason you need to invest in a DX10 capable video card and a surround 
 sound speaker system.
  UPDATE: After playing through 80% of the game I just don't care to finish BioShock. Although the 
 graphic motif and theme is good to look at, the missions and the narrow range of enemies make are 
 become boring by the mid-game. Also, it isn't very stable compared to most games that run happily 
 on my Vista+nvidia 8800GTX system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreadfall
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 27, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  What can be said about this game, not much. The storyline for this game is so drab it's unbelivable. 
 With the fact that is is alot like The Suffering series in so many ways, hard to believe people 
 don't see it. The animations are probably some of the worst I've seen in any 3-D game. The plasmids 
 is a cool idea but how many times can you watch a fire or lightning bolt and still be amazed? Thing 
 I also don't understand is how people can complain about the game being too easy. So a guy has 
 this inhuman ability to shoot fire, ice, lightning, have telekkinis and munipulate enemies to his 
 advantage, and somehow the enemy must be harder to beat, knowing he has all these powers? Not to 
 mention guns, explosives devices, ETC. If this guy existed in real life he'd be unstoppable, so 
 why is the easy of the game surprising? Not the game being too easy, it's the fact the guy has 
 all these powers, he's a boss himself, why shouldn't the guy be hard to kill? I'll admit there 
 certainly is a bizzare factor going on in the game, some characters in the game should seek a mental 
 Health specialist. Really though, this game has been done so many times before, with the only difference 
 being how many powers you can utilize, making objects, ETC. The game has absolutely no replay value 
 whatsoever, but that's not a bad thing, almost all game these days have no replay value. Choppy 
 sound sequences are also part of the bag, and the fact the game is a complete memory hog. You can 
 even minimize the game. right click your task manager tray and get a look at how much of your computer 
 is being used just to run the game, providing you disable all background programs. Normal to me 
 is around 45%, for games these days, and on my machine it was 55%. I have a decent computer 3.0 
 GHZ 2GB Ram, 512 mb video card, if you don't have at least that, you will crash alot, and have 
 sound problems. Also might I recommend not having Windows Vista, the game seems to hate it. Good 
 game, but way overhyped, it's a fair FPS at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrOpinionated
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  System Shock fans: this is the closest you will ever get to System Shock 3. This is the spiritual 
 successor to System Shock 2 and it is certainly worth the Shock suffix!
  
  Game play - The game takes place in an underwater libertarian utopia known as Rapture. Of course, 
 everything that can go wrong has gone wrong when you arrive. Deranged Splicers roam the hallways 
 looking for ADAM, a substance that allows genetic upgrades. ADAM is carried by the Little Sisters 
 who wander around Rapture looking for corpses to suck ADAM out of with a big sharp needle. They 
 are not alone. Big Daddies, the genetically enhanced protectors of the Little Sisters are always 
 nearby. Trust me, you do not want to cross the Big Daddy without be properly prepared! I won't 
 give away the story but I will say this: there's a moment where it all comes together that will 
 explain EVERYTHING.
  
  Graphics - Bioshock uses the Unreal 3.0 engine. The graphics are gorgeous whether you're running 
 DirectX 9 on XP/Vista or DirectX 10 on Vista only. The water effects are the best I have seen since 
 Half-life 2. The only way to outdo Bioshock's water effects would be a water physics engine! Unfortunately, 
 the game has rather steep system requirements. Your video card must have Shader Model 3 support 
 otherwise you might as well buy the 360 version.
  
  Sound - Excellent. Everything from voice acting to music is very well done. There's even one section 
 of the game where you are battling Splicers and Beyond the Sea by Bobby Darin is playing in the 
 background. Value - Don't pay more than $50 for this title. Get it off Steam if you can!
  
  Conclusion - Must have for those who like a single player action game with an interesting story 
 line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imigrant71
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I've played tons of shooters; Bioshock is a classic in my book. If you haven't bought it yet, then 
 you should... don't hesitate, it's worth the money. That said, for those military based shooter 
 fans this may not be a great choice, still; you should try it. The more I played the game the more 
 I got sucked into it, the setting is simply great, the voiceover really helps too. In my opition, 
 no other games (not including HL2) have offered such a rich and stylized environment. The story 
 unfolds nicely and doesn't effect the action at all. The weaponry and bio powers and modifications 
 are really cool; and finally the scary setting is stellar. Even names such as Little Sister or 
 Big Daddy are so simple that make it so cool. Yes as you can see I'm a fan. I wouldn't change a 
 thing.
  
  I played both the PC and X360 version. X360 because my wife wanted to see the game, PC because 
 I have a bad ass SLI rig (The graphics rock. I'm running dual GPUs, two 8800 GTX Nvidia Cards; 
 thank you NVidia) . The frame rate were superb, the water effects practically real. The puzzles 
 were a bit easier on the PC...
  
  I am really looking forward to the next installment of the game, I am sure 2K is already working 
 on it. I am waiting... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  bioshock was surprisingly brilliant, did not expect such an amazing game, probably was masked much 
 to the highly anticipated crysis. but still the game was brilliant in all respects, game play was 
 different and gripping with whole new weapons and attacks, character advancements and improvements, all 
 the more an adventurous FPS, makes it mind blowing. the entire world of rapture itself is a brilliant 
 work!!!.. would have loved it more if the game play was longer, and if more in-game videos were 
 there like the conclusive one.?? but all the more one of the best games of 2007.. water couldnt be 
 depicted better, big daddys seemed very vulnerable to grenade launchers, missed a few boss battles..!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Palette_swap
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Few games come along that really can really suck you in, and all you want to do is shut the lights 
 off, be alone, and play for hours on end.
  BioShock is one of those games. Despite some difficulty problems, and some technical issues that 
 will hopefully be fixed in the near future, this really is a great game.
  
  The basic starting plot is simple. You're in a plane, and that plane crashes suddenly into the 
 Atlantic ocean, for whatever reason. Conveniently enough, there's a lighthouse sticking right out 
 of the icy water some fifty feet away from you. You swim to it, and find a Bathysphere. You climb 
 inside, and it takes you to the crumbling (but magnificent) underwater city of Rapture. The only 
 problem is, it's filled with lunatics and you have to figure out why.
  The game's storyline is full of twists and turns, which makes it much more interesting and surprising 
 as well.
  
  Now the first thing you may notice when starting this game, is that it's graphics (particularly 
 the water effects) are outstanding. One particularly nice thing about it is that the game uses 
 ragdoll physics in a realistic way, as opposed to most games now. When killing an enemy (or Splicer, 
 as they're called in BioShock) , instead of falling into a strange looking heap, he actually looks 
 like you'd expect a person to look if they'd just been shot in the face. They stay upright for 
 a few seconds, as if struggling to stay on their feet, and then fall backwards. Though there are 
 some small technical bugs in the physics (and I don't know how many computers this occurs on) , 
 like when an enemy is dead, sometimes certain joints on his limbs will wiggle back and forth for 
 no apparent reason. So if you're passing by several people you just killed, one may be twisting 
 his hand left and right. This looks very strange.
  Another (and this may have something to do with what your graphical settings are) is that when 
 dying, and enemy will move in a strange choppy manner, as if they're falling backwards yet a quarter 
 of the game's FPS (frames per second) are missing. The game also (only once in a while, maybe a 
 handful of times in an entire playthrough) has a habit of freezing for several seconds every so 
 often.
  
  These strange bugs occur in the audio as well, although I only experienced one (but again, these 
 sort of things vary depending on your computer) . Sometimes the audio would stutter, as if it were 
 struggling to play the sound. However, I'd still like to add that the audio is superb. Guns sound 
 loud and powerful, the voice acting is some of the best I've ever heard, and the amazing symphonic 
 soundtrack cues in at just the right moments.
  
  The gameplay is very well done in that you can do things any way you want. Say there's a room with 
 a big Daddy, a turret, and a couple of Splicers. What do you do? Well for one thing, you could 
 go in guns a-blazing. That would deal with the turret and (given you're on one of the game's earlier 
 levels) the Splicers pretty quickly. Then you'd have the option of killing the big Daddy, as they 
 gaurd resources you need to become stronger. However, the all guns method isn't usually the most 
 efficient way to get things done.
  
  There's another way, you could zap the turret with an electro bolt, and hack it to fight for you, 
 and then pick off the Splicers as they're distracted with your new friend.
  
  But say you want to harm the big Daddy AND the Splicers, how would you do that? Well, say you've 
 got a hypnotize big Daddy power (they're called Plasmids, and they each give you a certain ability, 
 such as electro bolt, incinerate, telekinesis, ect.) , well, you could use that on the big guy and 
 watch as he destroys everything and anything that could possibly be a threat to you, witthout attacking 
 you in the process. With the Splicers and turret out of the picture, you're free to kill him (and 
 chances are he's taken at least a little damage from his rampage before) .
  
  Situations like these make the game more replayable and overall more fun in general.
  
  However, 
 the only design flaw in BioShock is it's difficulty. Later on, the game's enemies become very powerful, 
 where a shotgun blast to the face won't be enough to take down a Splicer, forcing you to be more 
 creative. Despite this, death isn't a big deal. You just spawn right back at a Vita chamber (little 
 booths that serve as checkpoints) , no death penalty, and all the damage you inflicted on the nasty 
 scumbag who killed you is still there, meaning you can always just wear your enemies down until 
 you've killed them.
  This is my only real complaint about BioShock, because it takes away the accomplishment aspect 
 of killing something really tough, and it makes the game easy in a sense.
  
  While a multiplayer component is absent, the singleplayer is fantastic enough on it's own to justify 
 buying it. If you plan to play this game, prepare to enter a world where there's no god, not kings, 
 only men . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azkotek
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  In the past I played games like Deus EX, System shock 2, Stalker and Oblivion and I get easily 
 hooked to these kinds of games. So I was looking forward to playing Bioshock which is a kind of 
 spiritual sequel to System Shock 2. Man, what a wait that was but worth it.
  
  The beautiful graphics is what you'll notice first about the game.... providing you've got the hardware 
 to run it on High settings (I have an Intel Q6600, 2GB of DDR2 ram, ATI HD2900XT and it runned 
 smooth with everything enabled.) The water effects are amazing and the textures are highly detailed. 
 The environments really make you feel like your in a claustrophobic place underwater. The only 
 thing I didn't like is the recycling of the ennemies: Only 4 or 5 models and sometime you see pictures 
 of people when listening to their recorder and when you see them in person they don't look like 
 their own picture, aside from 1 or 2 characters throughout the game.
  
  Sound: Well, again, if you've got the hardware AND a good 5.1 surround sound system, you'll appreciate 
 the game at its fullest. But even with at least 2.1 surround you'll find the sounds quite atmospheric.
 
  
  Gameplay-wise, Bioshock is awesome. There's so many differents ways to achieve your goals when 
 it comes to disposing of enemies that you'll want to try them all. You can hack turrets to shoot 
 on your enemies, make enemies angry at each other, use your skills to kill them or simply kill 
 them with bullets from you weapons. The weapons are upgradable at some ugprade stations but they're 
 scarce so you'll have to choose which weapon to upgrade first had the stations are usable only 
 once. Upgradability includes enhanced damages, more clips, faster recharge time, etc. The equivalent 
 of Magic in this game are Plasmids which are biological enhancements like one of them enables you 
 to shoot fireballs. And to upgrade your skills you must find Tonics. For example, one of the Tonic 
 reduces difficulty when hacking turrets or serucity cameras. Tonics And Plasmids can be found or 
 bought using Adam. Adam is recovered by ''harvesting'' or ''Freeing'' little sisters which are 
 little girls that are protected by the Big Daddies... yes, you have to deal with that big bully 
 in order to be able to get the Adam from the little sisters.
  
  Like I said, there's so many things to do in the game that I would need four review pages to go 
 through all of them. Best thing I can tell is if you like the FPS/RPG hybrids like Deus Ex or Oblivion, 
 give Bioshock a try and you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyabusa-san
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 1:00 am PT
Review:  I nearly gave up on getting the steam version running. Steam's support sucks, basically it was 
 Ask the Bioshock guys. Luckily other non-Valve people on their forums are more helpful.
  
  In any case, amazing game. Great graphics and I really like the character customization with the 
 plasmids. It kind of reminds me of Fallout in terms of having it's own unique retro style and being 
 able to customize your guy quite a bit. (Which is awesome, all games should be like that.)
  
  The story's on tape that you find add a lot of atmosphere to the game. Getting to know some 
 of the citizens of Rapture and hearing about the things that happened to them or that they did 
 make the place a lot eerier. The voice acting is fantastic too, the crazed plastic surgeon who 
 gets more and more disconnected with reality was utterly convincing.
  
  The plasmids add a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BambooStudios
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Ok, obviously this is a great game and if you have an Xbox360 or a good PC you should check this 
 game out if you haven't already.
  Enough great stuff has been said about it already though so I'm not going to waste your time with 
 a review highlighting this stuff. Instead I'm just gonna list off some of the stuff that would 
 have made this game sooooo much better (imho, of course) :
  
  Not enough enemy variety - I know, everyone is saying this too, but I thought I'd mention this 
 because it's got to be the game's weakest point; especially given that it's only a single player 
 story based game. Some additional boss (as in bigger than 'Big Daddy') fights here and there throughout 
 the game would have added a lot.
  No Multiplayer - Hey, I'm not complaining; Bioshock is a great game, even as a single player campaign 
 only, but it has a ton of elements that would have made for an awesome multiplayer experience. 
 Furthermore, they could have capitalized on the PC / XBox360 exclusive and made it a 'Live Anywhere' 
 game letting players from both platforms face off against eachother in Rapture. It could have been 
 sick! It might have actually made a 'Games for Windows Live' account worthwhile. Anyway, don't 
 let this stop you from picking up Bioshock.
  Technical Issues - Ok, to be fair this has been discussed ad-nauseum, but it seems fair to mention 
 that my experience wasn't perfect. The audio and graphics were fine but funny thing: my 360 controller 
 would cause the game to crash (on my PC) when loading new levels... sometimes. Otherwise, the game 
 was pretty solid.
  I didn't get to go swimming! - Yeah... I thought at some point I would get to go deep sea diving 
 and move around the city from the outside, but that didn't happen; at least not in the game I played. 
 I understand there are two games here, kind of, depending on whether you choose to 'harvest' or 
 'rescue'. So I'm not sure if you get to go swimming or not. I guess to know for sure I'd have to 
 play the game through again.
  Where are my photos? - I took a lot of photos (in the game) for which I got research points; where 
 are they? I would be sweet if the photos were collected as screen shots somewhere on my PC; some 
 of them would have made nice desktops.
  Doesn't play well with laptops - I didn't even bother trying to run this on my laptop, but my friend 
 did and his experience sounds like what others are saying online - Bioshock doesn't want to run 
 on a laptop... any laptop, so if that's your plan don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knut-am
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  After years of problems dealing with playing first person games due to motion sickness, the time 
 has finally come when graphics and hardware has reached a point were it actually produses a display 
 that dont bring out this feeling of sickness. BIOSHOCK is deffinately a welcomed game indeed for 
 people like me. on my computer system i have been able to run it at 1920x1200 res with evrthing 
 in detail set to max including the dx10 option and i must say the game is a fiest for the eye. 
 the game's storyline is both desturbing and to my taste very vell made up. some critisism has been 
 voiced for the final ending part of the game but what i would like to critizise is that the ending 
 came a bit too fast, meaning the game is a bit too short. I'm as told a novice player in the FPS 
 genre and i finished the game in 8 days of playing, about 30+ hours gameplay. some sort of achevement 
 score could also been there : how many kills and hit % etc etc. finally a Multiplayer would have 
 been quite awsome on this game. the game has proven to be 100% stabile on my system as i played 
 it and have played it a bit to and from since i finished the storyline and the game has not crashed 
 once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Alexxxx_
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  This game is great! it's interactive, it has great graphics great gameplay, what could you want 
 more?! maybe an online multiplayer wouldn't be bad at all.
  Personally i think the story is absolutely original, i haven't seen anything like it, you can play 
 other great games but they don't have this kind of story, you're traveling on a plane, the plane 
 crashes you are the only surviver you swim near a light house an take this lift/cabin thing that 
 takes you to Rapture, a underwater city build by great minds who where fed up with the greed an 
 threats of the surface world, how great is that?! It's absolutely a very fine tuned game, i haven't 
 seen any bugs, the graphics, the textures are awesome, just look at the texture of the walls of... everything, 
 its so refined, just look at the water, the water textures and reflections are nothing but amazing, 
 everywhere it seems like the water is trying to make it's way into the super structures of Rapture.... it 
 all seems so life like...
  Another thing i really like was the gameplay, the character responds perfectly to my every touch 
 of the keyboard, and when you hit the splicer with a rench or a a pipe, if it has a mask, it's 
 mask comes of showing the mutated and hurt skin.
  And so i wonder, if they make a BioShock 2 or something like that, will it be better? i can't think 
 of anything better right now..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  What can I say... all the hype, all the issues, all the rave reviews. Going into the game I was 
 expecting the next coming of Christ and that is not what I found.
  
  First off... as I said, just buy the game... it is a must have but it is by no means a 10. Graphics- 
 Absolutely gorgeous and revolutionary, but why the Unreal engine? No doubt one of the most original 
 graphics I have seen in a game in quite some time.
  
  Gameplay - Fun, but just more of the same, over and over and over. It would have been nice to see 
 a new Monster or two throughout the game... bigtime lack of creatures to kill. The game was also 
 way to easy and the voiceovers got to my nerves after hearing the same thing for 40+ hours.
  
  Replay Value - Perfect 10 on the reply value and I played to both endings.
  
  Overall - 
 Its a fantastic cutting edge game thats fun to play with great reply value. What more do you need.... just 
 go buy it ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kez1984
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  Visually, the game looks and sounds beautiful, it has a unique dark deco look that you will very 
 rarely see in computer games.
  
  The problem with bioshock, is the game play, there are several issues that are bothersome, one 
 of which, you cannot die, if you die, you are simply moved to a tube and can quickly cut your way 
 through to a new area, the game itself, is very easy, even on the most difficult settings, this 
 is child's play in comparison to system shock 2, while it is certainly more accessible for a wider 
 audience, you cant help but feel it is a stripped down dummys guide version of system shock 2, 
 with a lick of boot polish. The role play elements are similar to system shock 2, but also dis-similer 
 in several other ways, sadly because the game is so easy, and resources are easier to come buy, 
 there is dramatically less necessity, the modification feel more like play toys to have fun with, 
 than life or death.
  
  On other fronts the game is fairly more conventional, at it hart, is it a basic run and gun shooter, 
 the moral decisions we heard about, a living breathing world, while bravely attempted, are more 
 novelty, it's a case of almost, but not quite.
  
  The production values are top notch, presentation wise, it cannot be faulted, the sound is equally 
 as impressive as the graphics, there is a fair amount of game play to be had, never the less, with 
 alot of first person shooters, you can probably finish in about 15 hours, longer with more difficult 
 settings, the game is ambitious, and compared to other supposed next generation games, such as 
 halo, which are conventional in almost every sense of the word, this, however little, does push 
 boundaries, but falters in doing so.
  
  If you are are a fan system shock 2, expecting the second coming of Christ, chances are, like myself 
 you will be sorely disappointed, if you never had a chance to play system shock 2, or are use to 
 drones of run and gun genetic shooters with different skins textures and graphical tweaks, but 
 essentially the same thing over and over, this game is worth seeking out, overall, this is not 
 a bad game, it's fairly good, just somewhat of a disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomerkvs
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  this game is the bomb, man i have been waiting for so long, i bought a new computer with new graphic 
 card X1950 XT and oh man was that worth it. i play the game with high resolution and really magnificent. 
 the sound is very impressive and surprising. very nice environments, colorful and varied. absolutely 
 the game of the year. don't play this game if you don't have a computer that can handle it. you 
 will only be disappointed.
  so don't waist your time. first buy a good computer. for all you fantasy first person shooters 
 lovers, this is a must game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zythyl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Magnificent.
  
  An arthouse FPS set underwater in the age of art-deco. Who would have thought? If you play the 
 game guns-a-blazing then you will certainly miss most of the goodies stored inside its mechanics.
 
  
  Just as long as you turn off the quest arrow and fling out your shotty, the average gamer should 
 have a blast in the underwater utopian Rapture. With a DX10 GPU and some chunky RAM, one's gaming 
 experience will deffinately become more involved within the storyline and engaged with the environment 
 - especially the impressive water ripples and features. However, Bioshock dos come complete with 
 a few sound tech-problems and glitches regarding the rag-doll effects... but beggars can't be choosers. 
 Simply a stunning and engaging game with a background story with the ability to satisfy the lore-hungry 
 mong us, with some unexplained plot twists towards the end to send some gamers ascew - many of 
 them still asking questions long after playing.
  
  8.5/10 1.5 lost to no multiplayer and some technical problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revolt26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  all i have to say is Wow.... bioshock fps. The game setting is based off a world in the deeps of 
 the atlantic in and underwater world of sorts based off late 1940's to 50's setting. Out right 
 craziness gameplay throughout the game featuring some of the best weapons i have seen in a shooter 
 as well as human gene modding for special super human abilities such as electric shock, incinerate, 
 and hypnosis ( puts enemys on your side) . and solme really nify rocket launchers with some unique 
 attachments. There is also alotta items placed throughout the game in plain site. this includes 
 plenty of ammo and perks some of which do not get put to use till later in the game. Some of the 
 best weapon and gene modding can be done in game throught the use of vending machines. The overall 
 graphics and fps dynamics are second to none. My overall opinion is that Bioshock is a far better 
 title than Halo3 If your looking for something new and fun withough all the hype this is your ticket. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latchol1Sim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  BioShock has one of the most immersive atmospheres and spectacular voice acting I have seen in 
 any game for a long time, and the design of the city, visually, is amazing without DirectX 10, 
 although if there was no mesh improvement in DirectX 10 there may have been more to harness there.
 
  
  The story is so well-polished, and everything fits together so neatly (assuming you connect the 
 dots and get most of the audio diaries) , but, because Rapture just engulfs you, I was left wanting 
 to know more about how Rapture came to its demise, and what it used to look like at its peak.
 
  
  Though BioShock is just a game, it creates such a mood and gave me such sympathy for the  
 splicers, but there was something about the Little Sisters that made them seem less human, and 
 so they would have been easier to harvest (though I still saved them)
  
  The only thing that really let the game down was the lack of visual realism in the enemies and 
 cutscenes. From the (DirectX 10) images I saw of the game, the splicers look a little odd close-up, 
 which didn't worry me too much. But what irritated me was the lack of human-resemblance on the 
 non-mutated characters of the game like Andrew Ryan. Their faces seemed far to blocky and pointy 
 to be passable as 'alive', especially when comparing them to what DirectX 10 can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake187Eyes
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Very good story, graphics are amazing, gameplay is one of a kind. This game has everything you 
 would want in a single player game. If you have 60 bucks laying around go buy this game, the storyline 
 is great. The game is kinda short, so if you don't have the money to blow, I'd say definatly rent 
 this one. Other then a few freeze ups, bugs are almost non existent. I played through the game 3 
 times without any major problems. I'm givine Bioshock a 10 because its been a long time that a 
 demo hooked me within the first 5 minutes. Don't believe, go download the demo on xbox live and 
 see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirrel275
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  The game is great. Awsome graphics. The game performed well on max settings on a 5200+ 2g 800mhz 
 ddr2 ati 1950pro SB X-FI. The story was very innovative. The gameplay did have a bit of RPG elements 
 which I like in a shooter. Its nice to step into a game thats different and most importantly, fun. 
 I felt that here. I dont feel like writing 100 words. So instead of not posting this at all as 
 many of you would like, I am going to type the word a over and over to meet the limit. a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JM121
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Never since I first played SSBM have I wanted to keep playing a game until my fingers are sore. 
 Bioshock is without a doubt one of my favorite games ever made. This game has great gameplay and 
 lots of replayability and the atmosphere is just icing on the cake. Unlike most FPS games, Bioshock 
 focuses on having a fun, lengthy campaign instead of a short, lackluster campaign with multiplayer 
 thrown in. Its sad to see how many people refused to buy Bioshock when they heard that there was 
 no multiplayer. Because Bioshock's campaign defiantly makes up for not having multiplayer. Bioshock 
 also focuses on having an interesting plot with a great twist. Now I'll talk about things I didn't 
 really like about Bioshock. I didn't like how they made it look like you could set up traps all 
 around the game. Now I've only had two opportunities to do so. And in the first one I didn't even 
 have the trip wire yet. Plus the whole Different every time gimmick is kind of untrue. Overall, 
 Bioshock is a great game. If you are looking for a lengthy FPS with a great storyline, you should 
 defiantly pick up Bioshock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: athf_v3
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  If you played it once, you don't have to do it again, its all the same the second time. It is fun 
 that first time you play it. I wish it had some sort of online element too, that way i could keep 
 playing. Thats why halo and rainbow and others still live. I really liked the plasmids, it made 
 it so you didn't have to kill everyone the same way, you could change it up how ever you wanted. 
 Overall, i think it was a way fun game to play, and i would recomend playing it, but i don't think 
 i would have bought it, you can rent it and have the same experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aureatus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  First off I like this game. It has been hyped up a lot more than the game really is. I like the 
 story, I like the graphics, and I like the game play. This is not game of the year IMHO. What is 
 going on with the gaming community and the gaming companies? Why have we as gamers not seen more 
 innovation in gaming. I have seen and played a lot of games from 1980-2007. This game is System 
 Shock updated and with a different story. This game will be forgotten after the hype dies down 
 for it, at least for me. If you like First person shooters with a good story and have a DirectX 
 10 video card get it it is worth the 50 bucks. I will continue my search for innovation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumeiwan
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  It's a very good game i must say. Nothing beats having great graphics, gameplay and story. However, 
 for bioshock, there was a few dissapointing factor.
  
  Firstly, there's no death penalty. Thanks to this, even 3 year olds can finish the game.
  
  
 Secondly, the game's too short. I don't know about you guys. But i've finished the first 2 difficulties. I 
 didn't rush the game and i finished easy mode in around 1 day+. Wanting to see whether there's a 
 different ending, i played medium and finished it in less than 2 days even though i was trying to 
 explore more.
  
  Thirdly, no matter what graphics card you own, if you don't have windows vista (thus not having directX 
 10) . It's impossible for the game to bring out the realism of the game and enviroment. Everything 
 looks unreal even though i'm using 8800GTS with SLI turned on. It's such a shame i haven't got vista 
 yet.
  
  Lastly, although there are different ammos for you to use on. You'll find them practically useless 
 when you proceed to medium and will eventually end up using a fully upgraded crossbow throughout 
 the later half of the game.
  
  The story plot is still good, but not really very original with the twists. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  This game has good graphics. The environments look ok but it is not so convincing that this is 
 about a underwater city.
  
  The Scenario is PATHETIC
  
  At 1960 after a plane crash you find yourself at an Underwater Utopia killing Mutants with masks 
 and Big Baboons with diving suits called Big Daddies protecting some little freaks called little 
 sisters bla bla bla..
  -
  Anyway with few words this is probably the worse scenario that i have ever seen in a game plus 
 the game is not even scary at all
  
  Back to gameplay....
  Sometimes shooting at enemies does little damage even after upgrading weapons and the Magic system 
 is not so awesome either.
  
  Prepare to die often. And it's not fun constantly respawning in the same level just because you 
 have no possible chance against the enemy hoards/monsters.
  
  If you want some real experience about what Awesome means try SYSTEM SHOCK 2 or UNDYING
  
  
 That 2 games deserve a real 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tripwolf
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  From the moment I set foot in the world of Rapture I knew I was in for a treat. From the lush graphics 
 and the incredible atmosphere to the awe inspiring storyline, this game had me on the edge of my 
 seat from start to finish. From all the hype I was expecting the game to fall short and from the 
 information presented about the strategic elements I expected slow combat.. I could not have been 
 farther from the truth. Not only does this game deliver a cinematic experience of the likes not 
 yet experienced but in my humble opinion this game rivals even the greats of its genre. I have 
 no doubt that when history looks back at the games that pushed the envelope for superb creativity, 
 Bioshock will be among those who stand proudly against the tidal wave of mediocrity. This game 
 inspired me to write my first review after years of being a member of Gamespot. The controls are 
 perfect (mouse and keyboard) , the graphics are beautiful, the combat is intense and more importantly 
 unique. I could use numbers to show just how awesome I think this game is but nothing I could say 
 could possibly describe the emotions you'll feel while you navigate the dangerous territory of 
 Rapture. Go. Play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmichel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  Absolute amazing game. Visually impressive, great gameplay, but most of all, an immersive environment 
 with a story to be explored through audio logs, and environmental clues. The twists and horrors 
 to be beheld are very satisfying. If the game is less than perfection, it's a tad on the easy side, 
 but then again I played on Normal. The end boss was a little too easy to defeat, but that's really 
 ok because the end cinema was a great payoff, and it didn't take me weeks of frustration to defeat 
 the end boss like in Gears. Now I want to go back and play through a different way - make different 
 choices - and see if the end cinema will be different. I shudder to think what it might be, since 
 I played as a nice guy the first time. The freedom to defeat enemies in so many different ways 
 is unique to my experience. Set traps, enlist flying bots escort you and sit back as they attack 
 your enemies, set them on fire directly or by flaming the oil puddle their standing in, freeze 
 and shatter them, get them to fight each other, or even have Big Daddy help you out. The possibilities 
 seem endless. I'm sure I missed many subtle plot points, which makes it very tempting to play it 
 through again. Bravo 2K, I think someone finally topped Half-Life 2. And that's saying something 
 IMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: signum201
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  A cool game with amazing graphics (some tweaks could be implemented in the graphics menu) and a 
 balanced AI. The set is awesome and the water look is amazing. It runs smooth on a 7600 gt maxed 
 (except dx 10 textures) , with 1 gb RAM (probably 2gb would make the difference) and a single core 
 P4 @ 2.8 Gz. The story is somewhat linear but captivating and overall it makes you keep exploring 
 this fascinating world. For me is a great way to spend time ... I forgot to mention that the guns 
 are AWESOME and all those vending and upgrades machines are a great tweak for the story!!
  
  26.09.07 Just finished the game and I must say that due to my curiosity I had the BAD ending 
 : (. But anyway it was my choice to harvest one little sister. This game Rocks !!!! U can see watch 
 the other ending all u need is a codec from RAD... install RAD Tools :D. The GOOD ending would have 
 made me feel so much better : ( .Anyways this game is one not to be missed!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jevulen
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is a game with very nice mood setting visuals. Though for some reason they fail in sucking 
 the player into the game, making you feel distanced from the other characters in the game. Possibly 
 due to the use of a radio-communicator in the game, and not ever actually meeting anyone of the 
 guys talking to you through it. Unless you get communications from someone you'll eventually fight, 
 then you'll fight them when you first meet in person.
  
  The weaponry of Bioshock is pretty vast, with a lot of different ammo for each weapon, though no 
 weapon is new to the genre. And save the crossbow, I didn't find any of them alot of fun.
  
  There's also abilities in the game, like setting people on fire, freeze them, telekinesis, 
 bee swarms, electroshock., etc. etc.
  These can be some fun, but after putting enemies on fire and watching them run for water a few 
 times, it gets tiresome to kill enemies this way.
  
  And the enemies, there's about 4 different splicers in the entire game, the big daddies, and security 
 bots, and that is it, very limited enemy-supply and they're all behaving in pretty much the same 
 way, and all die quite easy. Especially the big daddies were a disappointment for me, since I read 
 that they were gonna be very hard, they weren't.
  
  Even hacking is simplistic and if you were to fail, you can just try again, failing can't kill 
 you even though it gets your health down a bit.
  
  Still, despite the shortcomings of the gameplay the game is a very neat looking thing, with excellent 
 graphical design and great audio. Voiceacting is also top notch. I guess you could all in all say 
 that I am dissappointed due to the very poor mix of enemies, the easiness of the entire game, and 
 the all flash no substance gameplay in general. I'd rather pick up Deus Ex again, or why not System 
 Shock 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  OK, right to the point! Everyone knows that Bioshock looks and sounds amazing so I'll skip that 
 part.
  
  Here are my points that make the game not worthy of a 9 IMO:
  
  The game is just sooooooo easy - vita chambers make you never to care about your health bar. They 
 should have been checkpoints instead and no other save options and the game would have scored above 
 9 for me.
  
  Total lack of enemy diversity - shooting at the same uninteresting humans the entire game, wether 
 they crawl on walls or not, just doesn't cut it. It is even more frustrating how these same humans 
 become suddenly much more powerful at some point in the game. Big Daddies are fun, but they ignore 
 you if you do not attack them so when all Little Sisters are collected, there is no need to oppose 
 them. And finally, only one boss fight in the entire game (not counting fights with special Splicers) 
 and it is the final showdown and it is a major disappointment in how easy it is.
  
  Hacking seems ingenius at first, but it quickly becomes rather boring, especially when there's 
 something to hack in every room.
  
  There is a great variety of plasmids, however most of them are utterly useless. They have upgrades 
 too, but instead of getting those through using your plasmids, you just purchase the upgraded version 
 from a machine. That's stupid. Weapon upgrades are much fun though. And speaking of weapons, they 
 are all pretty good in general even though they are quite standard - a revolver, a shotgun, a machine 
 gun, etc.
  
  The story is actually good and the game is very strong at the point where it creates a thick feeling 
 that the game is ending and then all of a sudden there is a quick and rather unexpected turn of 
 events and it seems like it all starts again... which is actually not that positive, because the 
 game becomes monotonous fast after that point. Still events in the game are fun but the story could 
 have been told better than with radio messages which are sometimes hard to follow. However, it 
 is good how those radio messages present bits of many aspects of everyday life in Rapture which 
 definitely serves the atmosphere.
  
  I totally fell in love with level design in the game. Some of the places like the tree garden and 
 Fort Frolic are just marvelous and the idea of these levels is great.
  
  One more plus for Bioshock in the end - the game is rather lenghtly for a FPS which is good.
 
  
  With all that said, I think Bioshock had a tremendous potential to be the best FPS this year, however, 
 the way it is now, it will probably be blown away by Crysis, Enemy Territory: Quake Wars, etc. 
 Hell, I even found Medal of Honor: Airborne more fun, because it was more challenging. And what 
 about multiplayer?!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alijib
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 11:45 pm PT
Review:  From boot till finish ,Bioshock is one hell of a ride, in which you will encounter bizzare humans, 
 big daddy's and little sisters in a nearly drowned, ill fated city of Rapture. Story wise this 
 game will keep you on your toes to do this and that to achieve your goals , it will constantly 
 nag you about harvesting or rescuing the little sisters from the sinister of Rapture, and will 
 play an Important role in determining you Path to glory ( Reportedly Bioshock has three different 
 endings, one is achieved by harvesting all the little sisters, 2nd is by rescuing all of them , 
 I am not sure about the third path) .
  As bioshock is powered by Unreal3 Engine, you are in for a treat graphic wise. from your crash 
 , you will start to acknowledge the beautiful water ripples and effects, on which bioshock team 
 has worked a lot and it shows, from colorful moody world of 50's , beautiful lash green Arcadia 
 level , or underwater tunnels which show off most of the rapture.
  Gameplay is very balanced , and use of plasmids grants you supernatural abilities of electric shock, 
 telekinesis , pyrotechnics , bees and etc. Some cool weapon upgrades are also available , which 
 you can buy from slots spread through out the game world.
  Enemy AI is pretty good , they can gang up on you if you are spotted, use different methods to 
 corner you or will simply try to hurt you with full body contact.
  Big daddy's go on their way for daily work out if you don't bother them, and they are not compared 
 to the stories which were told before the game release, i always found them very easy to kill.
 
  Game seems very short , or is it the immersive level of presentation which makes it seem short, 
 but I rather enjoyed it more if they have put up 5 to 10 more hours in it.
  Overall this game is 2 thumbs up for every FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinman1968
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo and immediately drove to Best Buy and bought the game. This game reminded me 
 of Fallout a little due to the feel and theme of the setting. I really enjoyed the varied enemies 
 and different strategies needed to defeat each particular kind of enemy. I loved the ability to 
 choose to either save a Little Sister or assimilate her. The different stages of the game were 
 excellent. I enjoyed the musician Cohen the most as he was a dichotomy. Ruthless torturer and artist 
 in the same breath, he would prattle on about his art and then he kills a student for not being 
 good enough in the next room. Unbelievable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 3:03 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  Let me set the record straight from the beginning. The game mechanics and horror theme might be 
 similar but really thats where the similarity to System Shock ends. Instead of a derelict, haunted 
 spaceship we have a derelict, haunted underwater city. Instead of a mad, power-hungry computer 
 we have a mad, power-hungry man. Instead of never mind. What Im trying to say is Bioshock is 
 its own game, not System Shock 3. Bioshock is essentially a first-person shooter at heart, with 
 enough adventure and RPG elements to really spice up that tired old genre. You play a man, caught 
 up in a plane crash who ends up stranded in the underwater utopia of Rapture where something has 
 gone wrong. Sounds straight out of a B-movie, but it works and the atmosphere created within the 
 gameworld takes you straight out of your chair and slaps you right in the middle of it all. Bioshock 
 sucks you in. There are lots of weapons around, plus a series of plasmids and tonics which 
 act sort of like RPG stat upgrades and also grant you some nice powers such as telekinesis and 
 electro-shock, powered by EVE (mana, RPG fans) . You can also hack security systems and whatnot 
 if you so desire. The game is reasonably linear, theres an option to turn on a quest arrow and 
 with the map handy theres really no excuse for getting lost or side-tracked. There are plenty 
 of side-areas to explore for the more adventurous players, and lots of nice little details to flesh 
 out the plot and environment such as diary entries a la System Shock. The point of morality you 
 may have heard speak of isnt really there, though. The Big Daddies (the robot thingies) protect 
 the Little Sisters (the Frankenstein girls) , whom you must harvest to gain ADAM which can be 
 used to purchase new upgrades. There is a reward for saving all the Little Sisters, but really 
 the only thing going through your mind when you encounter them isnt oh, what a lost and lonely 
 little girl but cha-ching!
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Even on DX9 this game looks fantastic. The environment is dark and shadowy, but not to hide a lack 
 of detail. Each area is atmospheric and interesting to look at. The character models are nicely 
 detailed and suitably grotesque in places. The water looks, for possibly the first time, like water. 
 Theres some nice blurry effects if you stand in a shower of water too, a nice touch. A nice job 
 all round. You may need a reasonably high-spec machine to run all the graphical options on full, 
 but theres enough customisation available that even below average computers should be able to 
 run the game.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Very nice musical score, well-suited to the action going on and with a great 1940s tone in parts. 
 The sound effects are impressive and downright spooky in parts, some well-done voice acting too. 
 Obviously someone knows how to play crazy well.
  
  Value: 9/10
  A pretty long and quite challenging game, especially if you take the time to thoroughly explore 
 each area. Not much to do once the main storyline is over, but Bioshock is good enough that Ill 
 be coming back to Rapture again sometime.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  Superb.
  
  Pros:
  Great atmosphere and environment.
  Graphically impressive.
  Enough twists and turns to keep 
 you on your toes.
  
  Cons:
  Environment is a little too abandoned sometimes, more bad guys please.
  A few technical issues 
 including random crashes.
  Temperamental patch/authentication servers and unnecessary DRM leave a sour taste.
  
  Conclusion:
 
  Despite the horror stories of installation issues (some of which I myself encountered, to be truthful) 
 Id still recommend the game in a heartbeat to any fan of shooters, action-adventures or steampunkish 
 horror. Its worth the grief. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masanhueza
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Great game, atmosphere is really a great achievement, and graphics are awesome the only problems 
 are the sound and subtitles lags and the lach of variety on foes. Worth playig if you enjoy FPS, 
 you can use a lot of methods to defeat the enemies and that is something interesting that first 
 person shooter usually don`t have so is very funny to try different ways to kill enemies using 
 the minor amount of ammo. the terror in the game could be a little more intense cause it seems 
 to be the creators goal. Action is quite challenging but it`s not well balanced cause there are 
 very poweful enemies like the big daddies, but normal foes don`t represent a big trouble. The sound 
 is pretty good but needs a patch to solved the lag problem.
  One of the best point of bioshock is that even with it`s amazing graphics you don`t need an alienware 
 to play it, this is a very important point, nowdays game`s requirements are so high that not everybody 
 can play them without upgrading their machines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  You are a cast-away in Rapture, an underwater Utopia torn apart by civil war. Caught between powerful 
 forces, and hunted down by genetically modified splicers and deadly security systems, you have 
 to come to grips with a deadly, mysterious world filled with powerful technology and fascinating 
 characters. No encounter ever plays out the same, and no two gamers will play the game the same 
 way. BioShock is loaded with some of greatest, most modifiable weapons to ever blast their way 
 into a shooter. But guns alone wont be enough to defeat the devious AIs of Rapture. There are 
 literally hundreds of other strategies players can use to take out his enemies. BioShock is the 
 genetically enhanced first person shooter that lets you do things never before possible in the 
 genre: turn everything into a weapon, biologically mod your body with plasmids, hack devices and 
 systems, upgrade your weapons and craft new ammo variants, and experiment with different battle 
 techniques in an incredible and unique underwater city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinkyimp
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  what a great game from the plasmids to the tonics it cant get much better than it already is i 
 congrats to 2K games for this wonderful masterpiece as well as 2K Boston/ Aussie but on with the 
 review
  
  for those of you who dont know bioshock is a spitrual successor to a successful series System Shock 
 while it has the same ideas it has different game play setting and characters.
  
  the atmosphere is great from the inhabitants of rapture to the big daddies stomp everything is 
 top notch in the game as well as the gun sounds which IMO sound very weak like the machine gun 
 sounds like nothing but i can deal with that
  
  as far a graphics what can i say there good, im running this game on a 8600GTS with a AMD athlon 
 3500+ and i play it on high with little pauses and freezes
  
  the combat is ok..... seems to much for a console standard... he moves kinda slow enemies move 
 kinda slow.... EVERYTHING seems just to SLOW! nothing is moving that or need your reflexes this 
 is how it is
  Walk into room.... boom .... kill citizen.... move into next room.... boom. kill citizen...... walk 
 onto high part of room..... AND just then when you see a big daddy you finially say thank god! 
 a challenge also the game is not very hard
  
  all in all its a decent game for what its worth and i enjoyed it to its full potential do i think 
 it coulda been better... YES but that dosent mean its a bad game i enjoyed it and so will you.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is a game like no other. Explore a city called rapture which was bulit by a crazed man 
 to let others live free and however they want to with no laws and rules. The games story is that 
 a man is on a airplane that crashed into the ocean next to a lighthouse. The lighthouse is a entrance 
 to the hidden underwater city of rapture. (not going to spoil the rest)
  
  Gameplay: Usually retrieval gameplay. Walk there get this kill stuff on the way there and on the 
 way back and do it again but this games makes it fun with a great storyline to follow and reasons 
 to actually get the stuff the charcters need. 10/10
  
  Sound: Great orchestra soundtrack with licensed 1920's-1940's music. Voice acting is the best I 
 have heard in a game in a long time. Gun sounds sound like there real life counterparts (the real 
 guns anyway) and the ambient is great to.9/10
  
  Graphics: Dx9 graphics are amazing with polished enviroments and detailed people and weapons. Dx10 
 is not a huge improvement over dx10 but still looks amazing. ( on par with some crysis footage 
 we have seen) -10/10
  
  Value: The game is 50 bucks and only has 2 endings. Great replay value tho. there is so much you 
 can do and see that you dont see when you play straight thro the singlplayer story. Should have 
 been atleast some team Deathmatch and Deathmatch multiplayer gameplay.
  
  The Good: Amazing graphics and sound, one of the best games ever made
  The Bad: Random Graphics 
 glitches and crashes sometimes
  The Ugly: your enimies are horrid looking :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivion1012
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  The moment I picked up this game I was addicted, the game developers intertwined graphical intensity, 
 and a crisp picture. Great Game play, wonderful graphics, minimal learning curve, and immersing 
 with the plot. Truly a great game, although it had some drawbacks, it lacked a penalty for dying, 
 but they quickly made up for that with their Insanely difficult hard mode, so all-in-all the game 
 was very well balanced. And if I haven't mentioned the graphics enough, they are GREAT! This is 
 the ultimate FPS to any gamer to interested!! Playtime: 28 hours (Ish)
  Difficulties: Easy, normal, Hard
  Learning Curve: 20 minutes
  Game engine: Unreal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonneQ
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I have fond memories of System Shock 2. My first encounter with a hybrid will probably be seared 
 into my brain for the rest of my life. The only reason I was able to put a wrench through its hideously 
 mutated face before it bludgeoned me to death was because I had enough adrenaline coursing through 
 my body to explode a small horse's heart. When it came to atmosphere, the game practically grabbed 
 you by the balls, elbowed you in the face, and dragged you, kicking and screaming, in through the 
 monitor. Between the unsettling, well voiced audio logs of the crew, the scarcity of ammunition 
 and health hypos, and the ever-spawning army of sci-fi nasties, Shock 2 melded you to the edge 
 of your seat, and made a generation of gamers raised on the Doom doctrine of keycard collecting 
 and circle strafing give pause to Looking Glass's treatment of the first person shooter. Those 
 who noticed, anyway. System Shock 2 would be tragically eclipsed by the genre redefining Half-Life.
 
  
  Fast forward eight years. Irrational, an offshoot of the now defunct Looking Glass Studios has 
 been acquired by 2KGames. Ken Levine, the driving creative force behind Shock 2, and other former 
 developers offer up their self-described 'spiritual successor' to the System Shock series: Bioshock. 
 The gaming world utters a collective gasp.
  
  The first thing that will strike you during the first few minutes of Bioshock will be the visuals. 
 Emerging from the fiery wreckage of your downed passenger jet and looking up at the ominous outline 
 of a lighthouse against a full moon in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean grips stronger than I can 
 put into words. Things only get better as you delve into the once glorious, now utterly ruined 
 city of Rapture. If its optimistic, grandiose art-deco styling set against the ocean floor doesn't 
 impress you, then the painstaking detail the level designers went into making the place look lived 
 in- and utterly ruined- will. When you first emerge from your underwater express elevator and look 
 around at the strewn luggage, picket signs, and 1959 New Years Eve celebratory decorations in tatters, 
 your suspension of disbelief kicks into overdrive and you're there, standing in Rapture, wondering 
 how everything could have gone so wrong for a place billed as a paradise for the intellectual elite 
 of the world. The second thing that will suck you in is the narrative. Just as in System Shock 
 2, the story is told through the recorded audio logs of the city's inhabitants, as well as radio 
 transmissions from several key characters still inhabiting Rapture. The voice acting and solid 
 writing will keep you advancing through the game, getting closer to unraveling exactly what plunged 
 this place into the veritable hell it's become, and how your character's going to get out of it 
 alive. Similar to Shock 2, you will have a character helping you remotely through the game. In 
 this case, it's a badass sounding Irishman named Atlas. In addition to guiding you through the 
 hostile environs, he offers you a window into Rapture's past glory, and its spiral into ruin. He 
 also provides a uniquely human contact in a world otherwise inhabited by the psychotic, inhuman 
 splicers. Former denizens of the underwater utopia, splicers have butchered their DNA to the point 
 of becoming monsters whose only concern is the acquisition of ADAM, the substance that makes all 
 the genetic powers you've seen in trailers and commercials possible. The first hour into the game, 
 you'll be just as concerned with getting your hands on the stuff, as it's Bioshock's form of character 
 advancement.
  
  Make no mistake; while I've taken time to praise the game's story and setting, this is still very 
 much a first person shooter. There will be shotguns, headshots, circle strafing, key collecting, 
 and boss fights. It's the other gameplay elements that Bioshock brings to the table, however, that 
 make this title maddeningly hard to put down. The previously mentioned ADAM, for example, can only 
 be procured from demon-eyed eight year olds known as Little Sisters. The catch, if it hasn't been 
 crammed down your throat already, is that you must eliminate their massive diving suit clad companions, 
 the Big Daddies. What Ken Levine referred to as 'roaming boss fights' are exactly that. Two or 
 three Big Daddy's roam around each level at a time, and you can take them on at your leisure. Without 
 ruining your first encounter with them, I can safely say you'll be surprised at how fast they move, 
 and how brutal they can be up close. The sheer thrill in taking one of these things out for the 
 first time ranks as one of the best moments in my gaming career. Once you down one, you must make 
 the choice of harvesting or saving the Little Sister it was accompanying. Saving her halves the 
 ADAM you would have received harvesting her, but gives you a warm fuzzy feeling when she says Thanks, 
 mister! and scurries away to her creepy vent hole. Harvesting her gets you full ADAM, but at the 
 cost of feeling like a brutal, child slaying beast. Both choices result in brilliantly executed 
 animations that capture the full weight of making either choice.
  
  Your character can spend his newly acquired ADAM at vending machines that dispense genetic powers. 
 These come in two flavors: Active powers, or plasmids, and passive, ever present boosts known as 
 gene tonics. You initially start with only a few slots for both, but more slots can be purchased. 
 Where plasmids give you the requisite fireball and freeze abilities, gene tonics might boost your 
 damage when wielding the wrench, or slow down the liquid in the Pipe Dream-esque hacking game. 
 Plasmids can be swapped out at any time at certain vending machines spread out in every level, 
 allowing you different setups for different situations.
  
  These elements- the stellar visuals, engaging atmosphere, sweet powers, and excellent storytelling- 
 are already present in the genre, albeit in different games. What Bioshock manages to do is bring 
 them all under one title then tosses the player the keys and says dick around with it. There are 
 so many ways to make your way through every enemy encounter, it's astounding. Let's take a big 
 daddy fight for example. I'll give three different, completely viable strategies for downing one: 
 You could load up on electric buck shot rounds, equip several melee boosting tonics and proceed 
 to keep the big dude in electrostatic convulsions while you beat his face in with a wrench. You 
 could hypnotize him into becoming your own personal meatshield, protecting you from splicers and 
 security measures, then turn on him when his life bar is just a sliver. You could hack a missile 
 turret and security camera, trap the room they're in with electrified trip wire and proximity mines, 
 lure the big guy in and watch from the shadows as all hell breaks loose. The game was flouted as 
 never being able to be played the same way twice, and with the final product in my hands, I can 
 confirm as much. Bioshock is not without its share of nitpicks, though. Firstly is the respawning 
 checkpoint system. In addition to being able to save anywhere you'd like an unlimited number of 
 times, there are several nodes around each level where you'll be brought back to life in the case 
 of an untimely demise- at no cost. Additionally, the enemies which you've damaged will stay damaged, 
 essentially allowing a player with the requisite amount of patience to get through any encounter 
 via sheer attrition. While this ensures most players will probably see the game to its end, it 
 diminishes the expertly crafted tension emanating from every corner of Rapture.
  
  Another issue that crops up later on in the game is the difficulty of enemies. Whereas Big Daddies 
 have distinct looking elite versions that visually justify being tougher, you'll have average looking 
 splicers capable of withstanding several upgraded shotgun shells to the face, or three or four 
 of their own grenades exploding on them, where just a level earlier one would have done the trick. 
 No perceivable intelligence increase is present in these later incarnations of splicers, aside 
 from disguising themselves as corpses or wielding machine guns. You're left with menacing looking, 
 upgraded weapons that feel neutered against flocks of the game's filler enemies.
  
  My final piss and moan about the game comes in the last few hours of gameplay. In a game so original 
 and well designed, it's completely underwhelming to be forced into an escort mission and then one 
 of the most technically forgettable, simplistic boss fights in gaming history. Escort missions, 
 in and of themselves, are outdated and frustrating gaming devices. Even with a fresh coat of Bioshock 
 themed paint, it sticks out like sore thumb when juxtaposed with the game's other, better designed 
 missions. The final fight, on the other hand, evoked memories of Soldier of Fortune's final battle- 
 which, if you're not savvy to the gaming scene, is like comparing the ending of Shawshank Redemption 
 to the ending of Dude, Where's My Car. I'm not ruining anything for you by saying it's a bunny 
 hopping blast fest.
  
  Weaknesses considered, however, Bioshock still warrants the heap of accolades it has amassed. The 
 dystopian, moody atmosphere its designers have crafted, along with a storyline that bests most 
 movies out today will win the majority of gamers (myself included) over. Additionally, the successful 
 joining of solid feeling gun play and satisfying powers will produce a Zen like gaming experience 
 for the wide spectrum of people bound to pick up this title. Bioshock stands to be remembered fondly 
 by the gaming industry for some time to come. On a closing note, it seems ironic that with Halo 
 3 slated for release in a few days, critics and players are already speculating how much of its 
 thunder has been stolen thanks to Bioshock. Where System Shock 2's release was blotted out by the 
 massive shadow Half-Life cast, Bioshock is arguably the fiercest competitor for game of the year 
 so far, and will no doubt stand shoulder to shoulder with the likes of Halo's latest installment. 
 Maybe a little bit taller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhen13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  To judge BioShock against any other first person shooter one would give it an average to above 
 average rating. It's the same onslaught of nasties that are constantly attacking and attacking. 
 All the while you are receiving help via a short wave radio from Atlas, he and his family are the 
 only survivors of the devastated city. He sends you on various assignments to help you find him 
 and help him and his family escape.
  
  You, in turn, have the basic shooter weaponry, pistol, machine gun, flamethrower, grenade launcher 
 and crossbow. You find your ammo lying around on the floor, in crates and on bodies. You also have 
 powers, Plasmids that you receive upon arrival in Rapture. Shock, fireball, freeze, etc. Adam is 
 a genetic enhancement that allows you to obtain these powers. I wont tell you how you obtain Adam, 
 but it requires you to make a choice that will affect the outcome of the game. These powers are 
 maintained by Eve that you find throughout the city in the form of gigantic hypodermic needles 
 that you must inject into your body to regenerate the ability to use them.
  
  You wind your way through a maze of rooms and corridors. What sets BioShock apart from the others? 
 The rooms and corridors are in a city built in the early 1950s under the ocean! And is it beautiful. 
 Even on a low-end machine with all the features turned down or off. The shimmering water, the art 
 deco, is amazing. Almost every room has a view to the city outside in all its glory. Though the 
 city is in ruins you can see that at one time it was a marvel of design and beauty.
  
  The story begins with your plane crashing in the middle of the ocean next to a lighthouse. Since 
 it is the only structure for thousands of miles you swim to it and go inside. As you explore you 
 find a submersible vehicle and get inside. Pulling the lever you descend into the unknown. On the 
 way down you view a movie describing why Rapture was build by the man who built it, Ryan. When 
 the movie ends the screen lowers and you can see outside. You crest a hill and before you is Rapture. 
 A city not unlike New York City, with its skyscrapers and neon signs. Only instead of cars and 
 taxis you have schools of fish and a giant whale navigating between the buildings.
  
  You arrive and the story begins. The back-story is told through tape recordings that you pick-up 
 (ala Doom 3) as you proceed through each mission. To go into detail about the missions and things 
 that you discover would ruin the game play. But, it is an interesting story line and at times quite 
 surprising.
  
  There are a few flaws in the game worth mentioning. First, if you dont have a high-end machine 
 you will at least have to turn off the shaders. Until I did I was able to play but every time I 
 tried to save the game it would crash. It would also crash if I tried to load an auto saved game. 
 Funny how it could save itself. Second, the designers put all the graphics into the city and its 
 surroundings. Each class of bad guy looked the same with the same actions. The bodies that littered 
 the place looked like they were from a game from the 1990s. However, to achieve the ambiance of 
 BioShock I guess that part was worth it
  
  All in all it was a good game and fun to play and even more fun to look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsymetry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  If you were looking for a review that riddles the seemingly perfect BioShock with holes and leaves 
 it dead on the ground, then sorry. This is just another review (Crappy one at that!) that applauses 
 this masterpiece. I have read review after review of this game and they all thought it was a masterpiece. 
 While Iam not one that usually plays story based first person shooters, the look of this game alone 
 was enough to make me buy it.
  
  For those of you that don't know, the story is based in an underground city called Rapture . From 
 the beginning of this game, the atmosphere is just amazing. It is set in 1960, and the detail of 
 everything in the game is great and really captures the time. The hole place is very dark and spooky, 
 hearing a wandering big daddy through a corridor wall makes you hurry to safe hiding, even though 
 the don't attack you unless you threaten their Little Sister , they still seem very dangerous.
 
  
  The game play is really fun as well, there is no mass storyline delaying you from exploring further. 
 There is a good level of character development as well, so it doesn't just seem like your getting 
 new guns. You can upgrade each gun, and they also have different types of ammo, to help you battle 
 the various mutants throughout Rapture.
  
  If you were thinking of picking this game up, then why are you waiting? It is a great game and 
 worth every penny. If your read this, thanks. I know its crap but w/e! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: INoX-AiC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 2:12 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this game over and over and so far the game still has me taken. In this review 
 i will be discussing the Graphics, Audio, and Gameplay.
  
  Graphics. The graphics for the most part are state of the art, i would like to give my complements 
 to the graphic designe team behind BioShock as the detail in the game sur-comes itself, on the 
 other hand i might mention that there are ver few low resolution spots within the game which do 
 not really bother me but as the saying is Not Everything Can Be Perfect . I personally love the 
 idea of the underwater utopia Rapture as it is set in a 1920's - 1930's era. I have also found 
 that there are a number of complaints to be heard about this game if you are are Vista user or 
 if your running the game on Direct x10, for those people you might find the problems such as crashing. 
 Now the graphics i would five a 10 / 10 not one major fault i have expirienced with them.
  
  Audio. The audio in the game is also very well designed, it makes you feel like your taking 
 part in the time setting. Now as all good things there must be some bad as i have noticed with 
 my sound system in some parts of the game (Not too much) the sound quallity will desipate dramaticly 
 but i have rarely found this to happen. So for the audio i would give a 9 / 10 due to techincal 
 faults with the audio.
  
  Gameplay. The gameplay of BioShock is turely and expierence to be held by all First Person Shooter 
 lovers everywhere. One thing i have to note the enviroment is beyond wonders i strongly suggest 
 to all players is not to rush and just enjoy the scenary and your expirience. The controls of the 
 game are of Unreal Technology which make the game very user friendly. There is but one complaint 
 i have towards BioShock , you whont encounter a wide varity of Enemy's but the game itself makes 
 up for the loss. There are a number of Plasmids / abilities wich you can acquire such as a Fire 
 , Lightening and a Telekenesis ability, all very usful in diffrent enviroments, the rest ill let 
 you find out for yourself. I will mention in order to get these abilities you will need to collect 
 a substance called ADAM , you will find this substance once you find a Little Sister , you can 
 either Harvest it from them or save them and recive a small amount of ADAM and a gift. So the gameplay 
 i would give a rateing of 9.5 / 10, not a 10 rating due to some techinal reasons.
  
  So now the Main reason why i did not give this game a 10 rating is because of some very minor techincal 
 reasons but still i recommend this game to everyone. Please if anybody has any questions or quiries 
 please ask i will be more than glad to help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loveh8er
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  I have played and completed bioshock multiple times and it never gets boring. the game can still 
 surprise you after completing it 9 times (unless you're a super nerd that plays games thoroughly) . 
 I have to agree with what others are saying: graphics are great, gameplay rocks, intense storyline, 
 dark themes and inteligent AI. so if you haven't bought it or played it buy it cause it rocks! bioshock 
 rocks!! I have played and completed bioshock multiple times and it never gets boring. the game can 
 still surprise you after completing it 9 times (unless you're a super nerd that plays games thoroughly) . 
 I have to agree with what others are saying: graphics are great, gameplay rocks, intense storyline, 
 dark themes and inteligent AI. so if you haven't bought it or played it buy it cause it rocks! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blindsamurai
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Oh Man, where to begin. One of the most top notch games i have seen produced by any gaming company. 
 Its unbelievable how 2k games took it to the next level. The story is so deep and rich with excitement 
 that it just can't be experienced once. The game is so alive with the advanced AI. The Splicers 
 jump at you with life and terror. It grips you in a vice that makes you play over and over again. 
 The life choices you make help define the way you play the game and the environment changes to 
 your needs by using every aspect of the world to your advantage. Theres just endless ways to rid 
 the area of those pesky splicers and defeat the fearsome Big Daddys. If you have not experienced 
 Bioshock than you have never experienced a real game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckay2005
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This is a Fun game overall... and if you think its ended well the first time I thought this it didnt! So 
 nice work with a extra little game play. Its got some really neat stuff and graphics and time zone 
 its set in. Espically if you like first person shooter. It however could have been a little more 
 indepth. The later lvls kinda repeats of earlier ones. Shame they could have done so much more 
 with the game and would be a great foundation for allot of extras and maybe a interesting PVP game. 
 Guess will see.... almost worth the money but I say its a $29 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiitzme
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I apologize for the ugly formatting, I have a better version on my profile. Bioshock is a great 
 game. There is a lot to say for it, so I will start off with the visuals. The graphics in this 
 game are very advanced. The water distorts vision, the ground shines, glass cracks, shadows create 
 a deeper immersion. The list goes on and on. This game will be demanding on even the most upgraded 
 rigs. The graphics deserve a 9/10. Now onto the actual gameplay. One of the upsides in gameplay 
 is that there a so many ways to kill your enemies, that it would take much effort to find, and 
 execute each individual technique. The downside here is that because of the loads of ways to kill 
 your enemies, you may never get a chance to try all of them. Another high point in this game is 
 that there are many optional areas of sorts. Your objective might tell you to go to point A, then 
 return to point B, but because of the open environments, you can go make a 2 hour visit to point 
 C. This game isn't open-ended by definition, but it gets fairly close. To fully appreciate the 
 game, you must go in the opposite direction of your objective arrow . A very important upside in 
 Bioshock is immersion, and this game sure delivers in immersion. Between the angry ramblings of 
 the splicers (inhabitants of Rapture, whom have used way too many genetic modifiers, and have lost 
 their minds) , the announcements broadcasted across the facility, and the radio messages you periodically 
 receive from numerous characters, I felt like I was actually in Rapture. It will be hard to break 
 away when it's time to leave. One final upside of the gameplay is numerous audio logs spread across 
 the city of Rapture, which you can listen to, to be filled in on important things. There are well 
 over 200 audio recordings, between the acquirable audio logs, and the archived radio messages. 
 I give gameplay a 10/10. Audio is a very important factor in a game of this style, however there 
 is not much to say about the audio. It is well recorded, though sometimes difficult to understand 
 among the many noises running simultaneously. There is a small audio bug, in which the tommy gun 
 will not make noise while firing. I give audio a 9/10. One final thing of which to discuss is replay 
 value. The game is immersive, well plotted, and well though out, however the replay value is on 
 the low side. After playing through the game once, you may want to replay again to finish piecing 
 the elaborate story together, and there are multiple endings, though I find the game is one you 
 play, then save for a time you are in the mood for a great game. I give replay value a 7/10. I 
 hope my review was helpful. I will now wrap this review up by listing value, and tilt.
  
  Value: 9/10
  Tilt: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zediknight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  You have to give sometime and though to this game to grow on you. Great first person shooter but 
 the addictive part is the story. Once you get the hang of reading diaries and get involved in the 
 story, it's difficult to break away from the game.
  
  SPOILER ALERT:
  My only disappointment in the game was the fact that I had harvested the first little sister on 
 Atlas's bidding and inspite of saving all others still had to endure the 'bad' ending. As good 
 as this game is, it still doesn't have a lot of re-playable appeal to make me play the whole game 
 just to watch the 'good' ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rangel_19
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  This is an extremely enjoyable game to play. It has nice graphics, awesome gameplay, interesting 
 story, and in my opinion has an extremely high replay value. It might seem that it is just another 
 horror themed game, but it really is not! It has so much more to offer! :D This is a must have 
 game for people! You can play this over and over again. The only drawback that I saw with this 
 game is that there's no Multiplayer, but other than... this game is well done!
  
  I love using my fire plasmid on a splicer and then watch them try to put the fire out near water 
 and then I use my electricity plasmid and watch the splicers get fried! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfile
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 2:50 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is revolutionary game that brings us new age of graphic, inovative gameplay, great storyline, 
 underwater fantasy world yet to be explored... but for game to play you must have monster PC with 
 DX10 graphic card to see all the features and goodies of the game in full details.. and believe 
 me its worth buying. Thou i must admit that it is good optimized for lower end config. The bad 
 side of the story is that developement of the game is rather too long waiting for fact that levels 
 in the game looks all the same for me.
  Gameplay is a different story fortunatelly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobiroka79
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Those infamous Big Daddies, all diving suits and enormous drill bits for hands, stomping about 
 flooded art-deco corridors with glass ceilings exposing the ocean overhead. Water cascades down 
 walls resplendent with memorabilia suggesting a place that's seen better times, whilst gramophones 
 crackle out famous tunes of the period to give the place a disturbingly real world edge. Cinema 
 doesn't get THIS cinematic. And it's mostly thanks to an elaborate back story, revealed in audio 
 logs and journals littered amongst this densely enriched game-space that will have collect-o-maniacs 
 sucking up everything there is to find and poke and prod. I have not spent this much time staring 
 at the floor in a game, nor the ceiling should a Spider Slicer scuttle along and jump down to attack 
 me from behind.
  
  You're probably aware of the setup by now, but for the benefit of review conciseness here goes: 
 An arrogant toff called Andrew Ryan gets sick of paying his taxes so builds his own underwater 
 utopia. He invites the cleverest, fittest and most elite people he knows to live there, free from 
 the shackles of governments that penalise and hamper their dreams and ambitions. At some point 
 a discovery is made which uncovers a means of genetically altering DNA to the point of Xmen-style 
 mutation (Adam) and this soon becomes the currency within Rapture. Everyone wants it and eventually 
 Civil War breaks out. In it's aftermath, you arrive...
  
  In terms of variety of denizens, Bioshock plays with a slim deck, but anything more would seem 
 quite absurd within the constraints of it's setup. Everything, down to the fact that those wee 
 little sisters are impervious to physical harm has a water (sorry) tight and/or plot based reason 
 for being there, though I will admit the introduction of plasmids and your first injection of eve 
 could have been better handled than a simple on screen 'Inject' prompt. It doesn't ruin the game 
 at all, but for such a story-led game it just seems a bit at odds with everything else.
  
  Anyway, the populace. Enemies come in several different flavours of 'Splicer', the term used to 
 describe the act of using Adam to genetically modify one's self - so in many ways, you play a splicer 
 yourself, but again I digress. You can usually hear a splicer chattering away to themselves before 
 you make out their shadow against the flickering light, or jump off your chair when they appear 
 right in front of you from round a corner brandishing a wrench and screaming I'm trying to control 
 myself! or Ruuuuun! or just screaming, for that matter. They wear different masks, some are male, 
 some... used to be female? Those that don't carry wrenches have guns, or throw bombs at you and 
 leg it. Some are double-hard, others go down quickly if you're using the right ammo-type. Set them 
 on fire and they'll throw themselves in water. Elecrify the water and they'll try to get away. 
 Fill them full of lead and they'll peg it for a med station. Hack the med station and they'll unwittingly 
 fry themselves. Spider Splicers run along the ceiling and throw circular knives at you. Some may 
 complain that they tend to repopulate the environment, but then if you can use the respawning vita 
 chambers that negate the need for a quicksave/load function, then why can't they?
  
  So the enemy quota is lean, but the AI is evolved enough to allow for some amazing firefights. 
 Combine this with optional (though strongly advised) Big Daddy battles and levels that feel more 
 like locations than corridors and it would seem that 2K have finally bridged the gap between FPS 
 and sandbox adventure to some extent. It also means there's no loading, something that seems to 
 have been largely overlooked and taken for granted by everyone. The other point of contention that 
 seems to have cropped up is those concerns the implementation of 'vita chambers' and the 'lack 
 of death/war of attrition' which is from it. It's a debate that could go on forever and a day. 
 People moan about quicksaves, so you do away with it. People then use a manual savegame option 
 instead. Disuade them from saving with a respawn feature and the game becomes too easy. In Bioshock's 
 case, it would seem the respawning combined with a very generous default difficulty level makes 
 the game a bit of cakewalk. Me? When I was offered the option of 'Hard difficulty - have played 
 A LOT of First Person Shooters' I listened to the game's advice. You still can't die in hard mode, 
 but it's enough of a challenge to appreciate the satisfyingly meaty encounters provided by the 
 top notch enemy AI.
  
  It's hard to talk about any one aspect of Bioshock without completely veering off at a tangent. 
 Hell, I haven't even described any of the Plasmids yet. Anyway, Big Daddies. These big golems were 
 created to protect the Little Sisters who harvest the Adam required to buy and upgrade new plasmids 
 and tonics (I so need to talk about these soon) . Go anywhere near a Little Sister and the Big Daddy 
 guarding them will make an unholy racket and maybe even give you a bit of a shove. Attack a Big 
 Daddy and you have to commit to taking it down, pegging it or dying (i. e. respawning at a nearby 
 resurrection chamber) . Big Daddies are quite tough. They're also surprisingly fast. You need to 
 have a ton of the correct Ammo and/or a plan. It's also usually quite helpful if the area is fairly 
 empty of enemy splicers, because you'll quite often find yourself navigating the length of an entire 
 level to take down just one of these things. At least until you're properly tooled up towards the 
 end of the game. It's in these encounters where clever use of your surroundings and ALL of your 
 abilities unlock the true heart of the game. It's all about the Adam and Eve see...
  
  As well as it's plentiful selection of ordnance (the whole spectrum from pea-shooter, thru rocket 
 launcher and flame-thrower, with three ammo types for each makes it possible to play the game almost 
 exclusively with conventional weapons) Bioshock's biggest spin on the genre is it's inclusion of 
 Plasmids, which basically amount to a selectable bank of 'magic spells' powered by a 'eve' gauge 
 which needs to maintained via the application of eve hypo-syringes, similar to the health bar. 
 Plasmids come in many forms, from your common or garden incinerate power, to your 'Half-Life 2 
 inspired' telekinesis and more unique 'hypnotise big-daddy', 'security-bullsyeye' and 'enrage' 
 varieties. Tonics, also funded by Adam yet not so reliant on Eve are passive abilities which increase 
 resistances and help out with things like hacking and melee damage. Plasmids and Tonics are more 
 numerous than the number of slots you have, even after buying all the extra slots available, so 
 the RPG aspect really comes in when you decide which suite of abilities you want to play with. 
 Personally, I favoured the environmental opportunities afforded by hacking turrets and security 
 cameras, and sure enough, the game allows you to tweak yourself in this way as much as you like.
 
  
  Research and Invention are perhaps two less well executed aspects of the game. At a scripted point 
 in the game you're given a camera, and snapping away at foes from close range when they're about 
 to cause you considerable harm is the name of the game when it comes to increasing your research 
 score. Increasing your research score nets you damage bonuses against certain types of enemy as 
 well as extra bonus plasmids and tonics later down the line. The other (maybe an after-thought) 
 minor aspect of the game involves the collection of useless items which can be exchanged at 'U-Invent' 
 stations for proper stuff like anti-personnel ammo or grenades. Gameplay mechanisms such as these 
 don't especially invorgate the core gameplay dynamic, but they don't mar it either. They may seem 
 superficial time-sinks at first, but when used in combination with combat and hacking, they further 
 enrich those types of gameplay respectively. If they weren't there they wouldn't be missed, but 
 their inclusion adds to the immersion and customisaton of the game's real bread and butter: combat.
 
  
  Some might find the lack of multiplayer unforgiveable, but appealing as a big daddy hunt co-op 
 mode might sound, there are a million more deidcated multiplayer games that do it better. Some 
 have complained that it's split PC/Xbox 360 development has comprised it's execution as a PC specific 
 title. Rubbish I say. There's no auto aim in the PC version and it supports Direct X 10 - though 
 you'll need a fairly hefty PC to play the game at a comparable visual/audio quality to it's console 
 counterpart. 2K have taken a game from concept, through showcasing and promotion and served up 
 pretty much everything they promised. People expecting another System Shock game may complain about 
 the omissions of a proper inventory system and the streamlining of item creation and upgrading 
 pales in contrast to the complexity offered by more conventional RPGs, but Bioshock isn't an RPG. 
 It's just a very clever First Person Shooter that everyone - and their mother - should play. The 
 fact that it's charms seem to have captured the world by storm can only be a good thing, though 
 potential sequels are gonna have a damn tough act to follow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadBoY_AC
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game the day it was released and this game is great. Bioshock would have been even 
 more amazing if it didn't have major gameplay im-balance issues. It thus does not deserve a average 
 of 9 Points If you look at the point I'm about to make, you will agree.
  
  For example, the weapons are not balanced and ruined the gameplay. Most Reviewers miss this part 
 but i think it's important. If there is a single weapon that overpowers all weapons, i'm mean really 
 overpowers... and a weapon that can kill so easily, the game's fun factor decreases by a very large 
 factor.
  
  The wrench was pretty enjoyable to use as a replacement for most of the weapons., but lost marks 
 for mechanics that killed all the atmosphere for me and the zero ammo-managment gameplay with the 
 wrench.
  
  However, the graphics are amazing and so is the storyline, and if you don't mind or can ignore 
 the language than this is a definite buy. Not for younger kids, though... You can beat the dead 
 bodies on the ground and see blood fly off. Also, in part of the game you go into a strip club 
 and get led by a ghost of a stripper to a bed were she is laying there after being brutally murdered. 
 If you wander around in this game you can find many more disturbing images such as a man who is 
 handcuffed to a bed and is dead. During the course of the game you can drink and smoke. When you 
 drink to much you get blurred vision. You are constanly stabing yourself with needles so if you 
 are afraid of needles don't play this game. Overall a great game. Also, though the idea that the 
 little sisters are dying from a result of your harvest is disturbing, the animation associated 
 with it is not nearly as controversial as I thought it would be. The end is good but it really 
 depends, there a multiple endings and the good ending is multiple times more fulfilling than the 
 bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfTubas
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Bioshock Review
  
  Bioshock, a game that came out on the 360 and pc, has had very high hopes for gamers everywhere. 
 But will it get the hype that was given to it.
  
  Story 10/10
  
  Not to blow too much of the story, but it is an amazing storyline that is one of the best seen 
 on the 360.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  Very hi resolution graphics that looked amazing on my TV (not HD) . Though at some points of the 
 game it does freeze up a little. But that is minor compared to everything else that the games graphics 
 has. Another note that the explosions and plasmids look amazing.
  
  Campaign 10/10
  
  There is no reason not to like it. There is suspense every corner you turn and is definitely one 
 of the more scarier games I have played with the splicers and Big Daddies. The more time you spend 
 with the game, the more fun it will be. (Approximately 8  20 hrs.)
  
  Single player 7/10
  
  Besides the campaign there really is no other single player anything 
 you can do. I think it would be a lot more better experience if there was side missions you could 
 complete or training to test the plasmids or some nice extras like that.
  
  Multiplayer N/A
  
  To make this short, there is none. I find this a shame because I am sure 
 it would be awesome.
  
  Sound 9/10
  
  The sound is very nice and if you have a surround sound stereo system (unlike me) you would enjoy 
 it just as much. One thing I do not like about it are the splicers yelling when you are listening 
 to a diary or another type of important thing but it does add to the already horrifying ness of 
 Rapture.
  
  World 10/10
  
  There is so much openness to Rapture and all these small details that make this game even have 
 more endless opportunities. Weapons 10/10
  
  There are so many ways that you can defeat an enemy. There are pistols, shotguns, machine guns, 
 grenade launchers, flamethrower, etc. There are also different types of ammos for each gun so there 
 are so many different combos. The plasmids are also very amazing. There are plasmids that shock, 
 burn, freeze, use the force, send out bees, and many, many more. These are just one of the many 
 highlights of the game and are very enjoyable. Cut Scenes 9/10
  
  There are not really that many cut scenes at all but when there are they are very great and have 
 nice color and great graphics plus sound.
  
  Enemies 10/10
  
  There are a variety of splicers in Rapture. Some that use plasmids, use firearms, swing wrenches, 
 and many, many more. There are also a few types of Big Daddies that are there throughout the game 
 that guard the little sisters. The enemies though get extremely more health when you get to the 
 end. There are also a few bus fights that are a nice challenge.
  
  Overall 94/100
  Pros:
   Weapons, Plasmids, Splicers
   Exploring the amazing world of Rapture
   Has Great 
 sound and Graphics
   Beautiful but few cut scenes
   The whole story and Campaign
  Cons
   No Multiplayer will absolute be a disappointment for many
   Very little Single Player 
 besides campaign 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ognen
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  Never seen better graphics, amazing horror - rpg - futuristic gameplay that will push you over 
 the edge. Great story about the city of Ratchet that may bounce you up and down, and crazy psychotic 
 creatures that may make you laugh, or cry like a maniac. This game is amazing. All these elements 
 make it be cooler than it seems. You start in a water and enter ratchet city via some machine wich 
 is looking like a spaceship. You met Atlas, your company and then start exploring Ratchet city 
 with all the quests.
  
  My advice: you must own this game, or it's a crime for a gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 3:10 am PT
Review:  This game presents itself wonderfully, from the music to the beautiful style of the underwater 
 city and the brilliant voice work, putting this game a class above most. The game feels very polished 
 and you can get a real sense of progress throughout the game.
  
  There are a few main story characters, they distinguish themselves nicely and are very exaggerated 
 to fit into the world. Without spoiling the game the story unfolds nicely, comes to a fitting conclusion 
 and overall feels solid, naturally with room for further games in the franchise. BioShock uses 
 music well, whether via brief sequences to heighten tension or to set a mood for an upcoming area. 
 The music played on jukeboxes and record players is from the time and has been nicely selected.
 
  
  Game wise you wouldn't be punished for likening this to something like Deus Ex, plasmids give you 
 nifty abilities and weapons compliment them. You can upgrade weapons using machines to increase 
 damage or things like clip size. Plasmids require an energy type device called evo collected in 
 the world, in order to gain more plasmids or increase plasmid abilities you need adam. The only 
 place to get this stuff is from little sisters, either by rescuing them or harvesting them. The 
 little sisters move throughout levels and are protected by huge diving suit wearing protectors. 
 These big daddies will leave you alone unless you want some adam and you must defeat them to get 
 it. The have high health, and can rush you quickly or used grenades from distances. Compared to 
 most splicers they are tough. The game world contains many stations that offer health, ammo, gene 
 swapping and are early on placed in order to direct your experience. Later on the game lets you 
 take a more personalized path. Sadly there is no inventory, items like food can't be stored and 
 must be eaten, the looting system feels a bit odd. Hacking is done through a simple flash type 
 game that gets harder as the game goes on, it's not ideal and gets old fast. You also can't die 
 in the game, vita chambers pull you back to the current world with all your ammo/weapons and full 
 health. Often it means its better just letting yourself die than wasting a first aid kit. It does 
 however ensure the gameplay doesn't get frustrating because you don't really have to repeat any 
 sequences, just a bit of trekking.
  
  One of the things I enjoyed most from the game are how enemies react and talk to you, telling you 
 that they can see you or that they just want to talk heh yeah right. Little sisters get heavy 
 on the abusive chit chat when their protectors start fighting Some of the plasmids let you sit 
 back and watch the action which I also found enjoyable. There is definitely a certain sense of 
 awe you get from playing BioShock and not just graphically, Rapture is a place most gamers should 
 visit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avaistupac
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  Not many games out there have the wow factor, but Bioshock is one of the rare few to actually wow 
 about. Not only is this game fun to play, but it has a great developing story. It is not the usual 
 Sci-Fi story where you are in a dangerous place and trying to get out type scenario. The game throws 
 you many curve balls, some which you would never expect. Many games out there now-a-days have a 
 short single-player, but Bioshock. This game is not short, nto at all. You can play hours on end 
 and still be advancing through the game. There are not many levels in the game, but they sure are 
 long. The game isn't a cakewalk either, as you advance in the game the enemies get smarter, harder, 
 and you need to be smarter. The plasmids you purchase need to be used just right, not just spraying/overusing 
 them like crazy. This game integrates strategy, which some fps games lack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warren55555
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. I played it all the way through, and I am playing it again. This time I am harvesting 
 the sisters instead of saving them. It is starting to get a little old now, but it was great while 
 it lasted.
  
  I didn't have any technical problems at all, but I have a brand new machine with a Core 2 Duo 6550 
 processor and DX10 graphics card running XP.
  
  Pros:
  Graphics, sound, artwork, voice acting, and story.
  
  Cons:
  Easy. I didn't mind because 
 I was really enjoying the settings and the story, so it was nice to never get stuck. But those 
 that are looking for a challenging FPS may get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nichavgo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I'm not very fond of First Person Shooters but BioShock is a great one, I just loved it.
  First of all (and I believe the most important fact) , the plot is just about great and the way 
 the story is buit as you find some audio diaries throughout the drowning city of Rapture is amazing. 
 Then, the graphics, these are the best I've seen so far.
  The moral decissions you've gotta make (kill or save the Little Sisters: more power or more justice) 
 which have an incredible effect on the outcome (which by the way is great) ; the idea of ADAM and 
 EVE and all the genetic modifications stuff; the design of every enemy, specially the gorgeous 
 Big Daddies; and a lot of other details make these game one of the best of its kind this year and 
 over time.
  I recommend this game for everyone who like deep stories that grow on you and those who also have 
 played and like Shooter or those who even haven't tried one of these 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paint__baller
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  This game is great, sure there are some bugs, but its great atmosphere and quick gameplay make 
 up for that. I was a little disappointed when i found out that there will be no multiplayer for 
 the game, but i was distracted by the feeling of really being in Rapture, I've never played another 
 game outside of the Halo series that gives a gamer this feeling. Also your character grows on you 
 throughout the game, from weapon to player upgrades the campaign does a great job of keeping you 
 interested. The hacking system is a little repetitive but only briefly interrupts the action. The 
 amount of plasmids is ridiculous and even more will be available via Xbox Live. So, thanks for 
 Bioshock, it will hold me until Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackleech
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  Mostly-open ended, Bioshock allows you to explore Rapture and find out for yourself the history 
 of the city while rummaging for loot. In most cases a lot of the enemies can be avoided for combat-weary 
 players, while those who prefer to deck it out have the freedom of taking down their enemies in 
 a number of interesting (and sometimes funny) ways.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The detail in the environments, especially the lighting and water is simply stunning. It is unfortunate 
 though that the character models are not to that standard, although they still look great.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Bioshock definitely won't be creepy if not for the excellent ambient audio 
 - the dripping water, flowing water and cries of the splicers. Voice acting is also top notch.
 
  
  Value: 7/10
  Although it's possibly to replay the game (for different endings) - there is not much else to replay 
 Bioshock for - you will probably use the same couple of plasmids/tonics again and again, resulting 
 in less fun. Also note that the number of installations is very limited.
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  Once you start the game, it's easy to tell why it's one of the highest ranked games of all time 
 (I believe 97% on Metacritic, the highest is 98%) - all the small things about Bioshock combine 
 together to make it an excellent game to play.
  
  Good:
  The storyline, direction, gameplay and atmosphere are all immersive and well done - you really 
 feel like you are in Rapture and not playing any other video game - to the point it's addictive.
 
  
  Bad:
  The game's almost non-existent death penalty makes it really easy to beat it - you practically 
 can melee your way through the entire game. Some of the plasmids/tonics feel tacked on as well 
 as it is unlikely that you will use them at all.
  
  Who Should Play:
  FPS fans, particularly those who love hybrids should get this game. As long as you can run it on 
 at least medium settings, get it!
  
  Potential: +-1/10
  The only thing I believe 2K games will release for Bioshock are patches for the various bugs, which 
 definitely IS good if you're having problems, but if you don't, don't expect anything.
  
  Conclusion:
  Despite a few of its shortcomings, Bioshock is simply one of those rare games which 
 manage to interweave the various elements defining great games together well not just in concept 
 but also in execution. It is indeed worthy of the fame it has garnered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shedding
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  I have played through half of the game. The graphics are nice, but they don't feel butter smooth. 
 It almost feels like the movement is discreet as opposed to a smooth feeling (I have a top of the 
 line computer with top of the line video card) . I thought it was perhaps my resolution and graphics 
 setting. I lowered it down, played with the mouse sensitivity.. nothing seemed to alleviate this. 
 It is therefore a bit on the hard site to truly aim at the enemy. It feels like a port to me from 
 the xbox 360 and in order to make this work with the mouse the programmers had to make concessions 
 with pc users. The game itself is ok, the story keeps developing.. however, much of the objects 
 in the game are the same.. you pick up.. you use. You are done. I figured, let me go ahead and 
 go through the game methodically to find every piece of ammo to give me an advantage. I was shocked 
 (no pun intended) to find myself without the ammo I worked so hard to get and not use until that 
 special occasion. I should've just used the ammo.. but all the time wasted finding every piece 
 of ammo in every nook and cranny for everything to be taken away.. not good. The game continues 
 on with very little reason to continue.. collect this, collect that.. meet this meet that. Where 
 is the true innovation. The game prey had innovation (transporters that allowed you to look at 
 the other side.. even if it was behind you) or systems were the ceiling became the floor. Perhaps 
 something like this will arrive at the end.. but plasmids are nothing more than another name for 
 magic and eve syringes nothing more than mana. Why kid ourselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWBgHz
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Outstanding example of what a computer game should be in terms of action, story telling, and interactivity 
 in both.
  
  Simply put, Bioshock is one of the top 5 best games I have ever played.
  
  It combines great action, fun, immersive storytelling and environments and even some thrills and 
 chills. The only bad thing about the game is the widescreen problems (not properly implemented) 
 and the inclusion of the outrageous SecureROM system.
  
  The game offers a diverse range of ways to involve and entertain gamers from the excellent story 
 to the fun and compelling action - the philosophical underpinnings of the backstory to the socio-political 
 musings of Ayn Rand's objectivism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslyderink
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I won't repeat what many others have said about the gameplay, graphics, immersiveness, storyline, 
 etc - it's all A+ stuff in here.
  
  A big game-breaker however would be for you to play this on easy or medium - DON'T DO IT - why? 
 Because if you have to save every bullet, every Eve Hypo, and every Snack - just to survive the 
 next corner - it will add a massive amount of challenge and reward to the gameplay. So you have 
 3 frags and 1 proximity mine left to take down a Big Daddy - combine that with a blast or two of 
 the Electric Shock plasmid and a few rounds of Anti-Armor machinegun rounds - and you MIGHT just 
 take him down, and be on empty afterwards.... meaning a desperate seach to replenish your stash 
 before the next onslaught.
  
  Playing on HARD makes this game really shine, trust me. Otherwise bullets, bandages, plasmids, 
 money, etc all just become too plentiful to actually matter, and you've ruined a big part of the 
 game - LOOT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Malow-x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  Many people have watching this game grow from just small talk into a huge money making machine. 
 Pumping out new ideas and concepts the creators of system shock &amp; system shock 2 have pulled 
 together another great game. Although lacking in what i found to be what was said an open-ended 
 world . The game still delivered excellence with its great control schemes, to the underwater theme. 
 Its got it all folks! All in all i loved this game. Even got it a week early to check it out (Thanks 
 toys r us for blowing that one) . Go have fun, pick up the game and descend into Rapture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenDreams13
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Every great many years there comes a game so amazing that it becomes legendary and is used to judge 
 everything that comes after it. BioShock joins the ranks of games like Half-Life and The Legend 
 of Zelda: Ocarina of Time as eternally great icons of what games can be as an art form. Irrational 
 Games, now known as 2K Boston, have created something here that is truly a masterpiece in every 
 sense of the word. In a world where there seems to be another first-person shooter ever week, this 
 game pushes the boundaries of what the genre can do and creates something so unique and fascinating, 
 that its hard to even classify this as an FPS. What we have here is one of the front runners for 
 2007s Game of the Year, and truly one of the greatest games of all time. Debates have raged on 
 for years on whether or not the story matters in a video game. It has been said by many that games 
 are the one form of media that dont necessarily depend on a great story to impress, and while 
 this is true in some cases, in others its just the opposite. Some games thrive on their story 
 telling ability and the impact it has on players. This type of game was precisely what Ken Levine, 
 creative director of 2K Boston, had in mind when he thought up the story for BioShock. So the arguments 
 for story or no story are irrelevant here, because this title serves up one of the most creative 
 and unique stories ever told, regardless of the medium. You start the game in the passenger seat 
 of a commercial airplane flying over the Atlantic Ocean in 1960. Then all of a sudden the plane 
 mysteriously crashes into the water, and as you come to find yourself submerged in the ocean, you 
 begin to realize that you may be the only survivor. Once you hit the surface you begin to swim 
 up to an unusual lighthouse in the middle of the ocean. Once inside you locate a small device called 
 a bathysphere and your journey begins, in the underwater city of Rapture, a city created by an 
 objectivist with a certain distaste for governments named Andrew Ryan. The governments of the world 
 were just not good enough for him and he decided it was time for a change. The city of Rapture 
 is where he took some of the worlds brightest and best citizens to live and practice their craft 
 without restrictions. But by the time you get there you quickly realize that something has gone 
 terribly wrong, and you are left to figure it out. I wont delve much farther into the story here 
 as to prevent spoilers, but this really is a hallmark in story telling and a true testament to 
 the writing genius that is Mr. Levine. All of the characters are brilliantly developed throughout 
 the game, and even lesser roles are explained in the fullest. Most of the storyline is told through 
 audio diaries that you pick up throughout the game. Its a terrifying way to put the pieces together 
 in an attempt to find out just what happened to Rapture. Levine says his inspirations for the story 
 came from works like Fight Club and various Ayn Rand novels. The Ayn Rand references are quite 
 visually apparent since the little sisters, the small girls that roam the city, are actually modeled 
 after Ayn Rand herself, and one of the most important characters in the game is named Atlas. However, 
 these are just a few inspirations that Levine drew from, but those alone call for an amazing story, 
 and like I said before, thats exactly what BioShock has.
  
  Run, aim, shoot, repeat. Thats been the formula for shooters ever since the early days of Wolfenstein 
 3D and DOOM, and now we are finally seeing a change of season for the genre. BioShock is very open-ended 
 when it comes to gameplay, and you can pretty much play out most of the game anyway you choose. 
 The main focus during your quest is to not only uncover this strange mystery, but to also evolve 
 yourself in order to survive. You do this with something called adam, a strange serum which is 
 the basis of everything down in Rapture. It gives you the opportunity to use strange powers called 
 plasmids as well as some other neat tricks. The first plasmid available in the game allows you 
 to shoot lightning out of your hand, Sith style. Only two plasmid slots are available to you on 
 the outset, but over time you can earn more and more slots and use many of the plasmids you discover 
 while playing. All of the plasmids use another serum called eve to keep them generated. Needless 
 to say adam and eve will be at the top of your shopping list while in Rapture. Adam is obtained 
 from the little sisters that roam through the city. These are small girls who scout the streets 
 in search of dead bodies, which coincidently hold the adam. The little sisters are protected by 
 intimidating big daddies. These guys are men in special diving suits especially trained to guard 
 the little sisters to the death, which is exactly what they will do if you get too close. If you 
 leave the little sisters alone they wont harm you, but you always need adam, and that can present 
 problems. Only two plasmid slots are available to you on the outset, but over time you can earn 
 more and more slots and use many of the plasmids you discover while playing. Other enemies you 
 encounter on your visit are just your average, everyday type of people. The only problem is they 
 abused the powers they were given and eventually turned into monsters known as splicers. There 
 are various classes of splicers throughout the game, and they all present their own sets of abilities 
 and weaknesses. Level scaling rears its ugly head once again, but its not as terrible as it was 
 in games like Oblivion. As you evolve the difficulty does rise, but you cant fault the developers 
 for trying to keep the challenge up.
  
  In a sea of greatness there is always one ugly duckling, and for BioShock that happens to be a 
 small bug that makes the gameplay a bit choppy during long play sessions. But if you only play 
 for an hour or two at a time this wont even be noticeable, and could easily be patched with an 
 online update. The cons are almost too minimal to even mention, but like every game before it they 
 are there, no matter how small. Many developers have used Unreal Technology and their Unreal Engine 
 3 in their games, but none have made it work quite like this. In fact, games using UE3 can range 
 from downright terrible to modern masterpieces. It really is unusual to see a renowned game engines 
 performance fluctuate like this, but thats beside the point. The point is that BioShock looks 
 absolutely phenomenal, and might be the best looking game weve ever seen. The detail is immense, 
 and the surroundings are extravagant. The game also features some of the best water effects ever 
 seen in a game, and really gives you a sense of urgency and claustrophobia. All of these great 
 visuals add to a ridiculous atmosphere that makes a sci-fi first person-shooter scarier and more 
 terrifying than most horror games on the market today.
  
  The atmosphere isnt helped by outstanding graphics alone, because when this group of hardworking, 
 dedicating employees begin a project, the one thing they take more pride in than anything else 
 is sound. This is 2K Boston we are talking about here, the creators of the cult classic System 
 Shock 2. From sad cries out in the distance to one of the most frightening music scores around, 
 everything is absolutely perfect from top to bottom. Every shot fired, head smacked, and step taken 
 sound exactly the way it would in real life. As a whole, BioShock sounds supremely better than 
 any other game to date. Its rare that something is released that just blows everything else away 
 that came before it, but this fits the bill. The intense audio qualities, combined with the beautiful 
 visuals just create a living, breathing world, and the aforementioned atmosphere is the best in 
 recent memory. Not only does BioShock look and sound great, but it also plays well and features 
 some outstanding controls. Simply put, the game just feels right while playing it. This being 2K 
 Bostons first console game, they really did a fantastic job getting to know a gamepad rather than 
 a mouse and keyboard. It feels like any other terrific first-person shooter, with all of the plasmid 
 powers implemented very well. Battles are nice and fluid, and never feel clunky at all. Another 
 testament to the wonderful work of 2K Boston.
  
  In the age of the internet, single-player only games are very hard to come by. Online multiplayer 
 has become so popular you could almost call it a fad. However, single-player only games are usually 
 filled with a rich, well-developed storyline and a better, more memorable experience as a whole. 
 So you cant be too bummed about the lack of multiplayer, because the focus was on the most important 
 thing one-hundred percent. Plus, would you really want to play a possibly rushed multiplayer component? 
 It didnt work for The Darkness, and it probably wouldnt work here. The open-ended style of the 
 gameplay, along with the arcing storyline and different moral paths are enough to warrant some 
 tremendous replay value. BioShock is one of the few that can do it without any multiplayer at all, 
 and it also happens to be one of the greatest game of all time.
  
  There really isnt much else that needs to be said about this game, its just simply perfect in 
 almost every way. It would be a disservice to yourself not to at least try this game and let it 
 slip through your fingers. Dont miss this opportunity to live the adventure and uncover the mysteries 
 of Rapture. Ken Levine is a true genius, and what he wrote here is fit for a novel with a movie 
 adaptation to follow. The visual and audio qualities are some of, if not the best in recent memory, 
 and pretty much everything sets new standards in what games should be. No matter what Roger Ebert 
 claims, video games can be considered an art form, because there is most certainly an amazing artistic 
 value here. BioShock is not only one of the most beautiful video games ever created, but its also 
 an artistic masterpiece over all mediums. Now if you havent already, would you kindly go and purchase 
 this game right now?
  
  ~Mike Pelletier 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schuy69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Ill make this short and too the point. The good:
  Story - intriguing and imaginative, like a good novel
  Look- game is beautiful and the artstyle 
 is that kewl, yet creepy fifties style
  controls - tight and responsive, as expected in a shooter
  In game items/weps - good selection 
 of weps and LOTS of different powerups.
  
  The Bad:
  Game modes - WTF!! no multiplayer or co-op or anything?
  game time - game is WAY to short
  
 variety of play - it lacks here, but it is a shooter, wave after wave of the same types of enemies 
 is just how it goes i guess.
  
  all in all VERY good, one of the best, and should be experienced by all :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmsbond35
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  what can I say? There's been a lot of reviews and I'm sure you've read all about this game by now. 
 It's the most hyped game of the year, and that is well deserved. This game serves up more than 
 expected. Gameplay:
  
  The Gameplay is great, and I'd have to agree with GS in that the shooting mechanics aren't anything 
 special. The fun part is using your plasmids to set traps or just incinerate your enemies. There 
 are so many plasmids and upgrades to mix and match that you'll have a blast just killing splicers.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Graphics are great although I don't have dx10. I heard there's not a big difference though. I had 
 this game for about three weeks and couldn't play it; had to buy a new video card. I'm running 
 it on an ATI x1950 pro, and it looks gorgeous. The water is great as you've read, but I don't think 
 people have been telling about how great EVERYTHING looks. everything is beautifully shaded, and 
 the lighting is fantastic. light bounces off everything, bodies that have been electrocuted light 
 up the walls, just so much detail. You'll sometimes stop and just look at the things around you 
 because they look so great. The environment is a key factor to this game that sets it apart from 
 most games out right now.
  
  Sound:
  
  My favorite part about the game. You'll love hearing the eerie music, sometimes freaky violin-horror-movie 
 stuff that you'll love. When you have a good sound system and subwoofer, it's great. You really 
 need one to fully experience this game. My favorite part though is the voice acting. It is the 
 best you'll ever hear in any game, I guarentee it. from the audio diaries (which are fantastic 
 and believable) to just listening to splicers talk to themselves about nothing it's all great. 
 Hearing them talk about random crap while it's dark just really adds a good creepy element to the 
 game.
  
  Story:
  
  You'll love the story. It slowly moves along and you'll genuinely want to know what happened to 
 this amazing place. I mean, a man creates an underwater city (which looks like Las Vegas in the 
 bathosphere) to get away from the government with crazy plasmids to recode your DNA and live in 
 a beatiful utopia with no government and the whole thing goes terribly wrong. What's not to like? 
 you'll want to know what happened. It's great.
  
  Summary:
  
  This game is my favorite game I've owned in a while. You'll want to play it again, and I can promise 
 it won't get boring. You just will love seeing the new places. It's just great to see how it really 
 was a city, and there's tons of stores and medical places (there's a whole floor of dentistry!) 
 to explore. You'll want to explore everywhere, although GS pretty much covered the fact that it 
 never encourages you to do so. Don't miss out on what I think is the greatest game of the year, 
 possibly the greatest game I own. Get it right now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricSherman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  When I first began playing this game I was astonished with the locales, graphics and settings in 
 which the game takes place. Absolutely mind-blowing! As I continued the game I was so impressed 
 by the game I felt I needed to tell the world so I bought a Bio-Shock t-shirt. That's how proud 
 I was of the game. After many hours of playing, my attitude towards has somewhat changed. I feel 
 quite bored with the game because of it's redundancy -- doing what feels like the same thing over 
 and over. I have also found that some of the ways you can deploy certain weapons in combination 
 hasn't been all that interesting. In fact, allot of the times it feels very clumsy switching between 
 them. As an avid FPS player I found this game to be entirely weak in that regard. The guns don't 
 crack with power and are completely imprecise. You don't get the feeling you are firing a gun or 
 that it has any real stopping power. Because of this it does feel more like a role playing game/FPS 
 hybrid and that's exactly what they may have wanted to achieve, however I wish the FPS elements 
 were much more pronounced. Some have made reference to the Ayn Rand undertones of the game. Whether 
 this is true or not, either way, I found to be quite boring and uninspired. It's not that science 
 gone awry, megalomania, etc, can't be exciting, because it can, but it just didn't work for me 
 all that much in the game. The story wasn't interesting to me at all. It may have been the way 
 the story is delivered (via tape recordings) . I think cut-scenes work great if done properly. In 
 fact, I felt the set up could have been longer and would have been more engaging if so.
  
  Another reviewer made mention that at times this game feels like DOOM 3 underwater and I actually 
 feel the same way allot of the time, in that it feels quite linear and corridor-ish. You really 
 wish that you could swim and/or be transported within the underwater city. Without this feature 
 it feels very claustrophobic. Overall, the game (most of the time) is wondrous, fun and exciting. 
 It really does feels next-gen and the art direction alone makes this game worthy of experiencing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrerep
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Technical Issues:
  My current PC was running XP with 4gigs DDR2, direct X 9 and the game could not be played with 
 my NVIDA GeFORCE 7950 265MB. It was choppy even with the lowest settings on video and audio. Upgrading 
 the card to 512MB graphic card helped a lot and with some minor setting changes the game ran smoothly. 
 Interesting enough I did compare the XBOX 360 with my PC and did not notice a difference; my PC 
 gave me comparable graphics to the XBOX 360 if not slightly better. GAME PLAY:
  Its not scary like other reviews I have read, but may for a 12 year old. Heck I havent had a 
 game make me jump since the 1st resident evil nor have a game given me the creeps since FEAR (the 
 whole grudge thing irks me) ; but that little girl sure is creepy. The game play is wonderful, the 
 story line interesting, but most of all it meets my expectations of a first person shooter for 
 mature audiences. (This is not MANHUNT) I like the environment setting and the creativity the developers 
 used in character design. That said, I think BIOSHOCK definitely makes as a game worthy of having 
 its on the 'franchise and I will be looking forward to BIOSHOCK 2 or Episodes if they choose 
 to expand the story line like Half-Life. Unless you got something better to play, pick this up 
 to get your frag on until Quake Wars, Half-life Eps 3, or Huxley comes out. You will be glad you 
 did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AbyssKnight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game, I basically have to agree with Gamespot's review. Great storyline, really inventive 
 and intuitive fighting system, although until you spend some time getting used to switching between 
 plasmids and weapons and scrolling through them, you're going to take a lot of hits while trying 
 to find the right weapon. Great graphics, though that's to be expected with all the recent DX10 
 games released for the PC. I personally haven't had any problems running it, even with audio, and 
 I run version 1.00 on Windows Vista with a GeForce 8800 GTS 640mb GPU, two gigs of ram, X2 4200+ 
 OC'd to 2.63... no problems at all, good framerate.... I guess my one complaint would be the lack 
 of online play, and the non-existent (as of yet) decent support for widescreen monitors. Don't 
 get me wrong, it's right there, but instead of widening the field of view it cuts off the top and 
 bottom of it, which is regrettable.
  
  Also, just to throw this in here; how come the vast majority of the bad reviews for games are the 
 ones by people who are obviously deliberately butchering the English language and fail to get a 
 real point across other than this gme is t3h suxxorz dunt by it. If you're going to bash a game, 
 give valid points, and please, let other people be able to read it...
  
  In closing, BioShock = good, bad reviews = bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vuvussi
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  There's really much to say about this game, things to say that made this game awesome. To start 
 of whit i think the environment and gameplay is something special that i gotta mention, its new 
 creating.
  
  Graphics:
  The visual design and just everything about it looks beautiful. Its this wonderful underwater utopia 
 and its never been looking better. The water is the most beautiful water i ever seen in a game, 
 it looks so real.
  
  Sound:
  Sound is pretty bad i don't know if its just me but a lot of times the sound just stop and i can 
 only here some stuff going around so thats a problem but not a big. Voice acting on the diary tapes 
 is just nailed and great.
  
  Gameplay:
  As i said the gameplay is new creating and just awesome. You can play multiply ways, you can just 
 play run and gun style and shoot the crap out of the enemies. You can play tactical and set up 
 traps for the foes or just mix them together, i'ts just unique and new, its something that you 
 don't see in games really.
  
  Lasting Appeal:
  The game is pretty lengthy and its full packed of action. The game stretches out to 15-20 hours 
 so its not that short, you wanna play this game again and thats a promise. The lack of multiplayer 
 is a little disappointment but its a good thing that they focus on the single player but it would 
 been nice to have multiplayer whit it.
  
  Conclusion: This game is amazing just the going around and exploring this underwater world is exiting 
 and the action is hectic. Anyone who likes shooters like Half-life 2 or Halo must play this game, 
 ITS WORTH IT!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shre123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Amazing, beautiful, exhilarating, creepy, exciting, enticing, and just plain fun, Bioshock is easily 
 one of the best games ever made. I'd like to start off by saying how well the game has been made. 
 The graphics, even without dx10 are just superb. The environment isn't fake at any pint because 
 the people at 2K have worked down to every since first aid kit to give you a real world feel. The 
 music and sound effects are simply brilliant. The reason for the immersive game play is in how 
 much thought the programmers have given to the A. I. Although many have been saying this game is 
 easy... which for experienced gamers, it is, the eerie intelligence of the NPC's is astounding, 
 Big Daddy fights are some of the best FPS boss fights I've seen in a while. The only problem I 
 had with this game is the sound issues, sometimes it spazzes and you can't hear certain things. 
 The good news is, this is, in my opinion, at the most boring part of the game. The rest is fine. 
 The story is very strong. You will realize this the more and more you play. The voice acting, what 
 can I say, THE BEST voice acting I have ever heard in any movie, game, cartoon, or anything else. 
 IT IS what makes the game great. And now we come to the part where I divulge the defining part 
 of the game, Plasmids. You've probably seen game videos and trailers about it but it is absolutely 
 nothing like playing it in person. The rush you feel by sending godly bolts of lighting in the 
 enemy's way is pure fun. The shooting is also very very good, what with unique guns that can shoot 
 many different types of ammo, and they are upgradeable as well. My favorite was the chemical thrower 
 :) . I highly suggest this game for anyone who loves a good shoot em' up adventure. Enjoy fellow 
 gamers!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitch774
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 2:37 am PT
Review:  Bio Shock is easily the Greatest game I've played since Half Life 2. First of all the environment 
 and setting is amazing! It is exactly what you would expect a 1960's underwater city to be like. 
 The different Decor lining the walls down to the juke boxes playing old music. Fantastic! The graphics 
 were stunning. One of the most notable parts was the water detail! The story line was also extremely 
 engrossing and I found myself being unable to leave the PC until I had finished what I was doing. 
 I really enjoyed the use of plasmids and the ability to customize my different weapons.
  
  I'm actually wondering what a movie might be like? I imagine, given the right actors and writers, 
 it could be very cool. It ran very well on my PC at medium to high settings. I've got an e6300 
 dual core, 2gb of ram, and a 7900gt running Vista. I wasn't able to play at the best settings, 
 but just lowering the resolution fixed all the chunkiness. Anyway, Bio Shock was Great! Well worth 
 the money. I didn't experience any technical issues with it and it ran great. The graphics, gameplay, 
 and Story were almost perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bungiehalo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  All in all the game was fun, I don't even know if I would say very fun, but it did what it had 
 to do. The special abilities were cool but the two stood out too much and the cooler more complex 
 ones weren't really able to be used. plus the upgrades to guns, I did not feel that the game was 
 long enough to allow you to do decent upgrades to several guns. All in all, the game play wasn't 
 anything new and extraordinary.
  
  but it DID do well was give a unique style of game play shown by the use of placids and guns. Also, 
 obviously the graphics were amazing, and the water... mmmm i love me some good water effects and 
 this game was full of it. Ran great on my Dell XPS with a dual core and 512mb card, so slow frame 
 rates. If your into FPS, I'd suggest buying it, but definitely play the demo first or rent it. 
 If your not a FPS, I'd consider waiting for a price drop if you wanna see what the hype is about. 
 but over all, a little over rated in my opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I must admit I was looking for much more than what I received. I have mixed emotions about the 
 game. I must admit System Shock 2 is still and may be the best game I will ever remember and or 
 play. Bio Shock is a great super game and I think it is worth the money spent. I find myself still 
 looking for shodan and the intrepid passenger that survived shodans evil plans. This game is simply 
 not system shock 3 nor is it a replacement for it.
  
  OK Saying that Bio Shock was fun and as rpg/shooter that has great grapic scenes with a cool story 
 line set in the era of 1946 with the adventure of a perfect society gone wrong. It uses sound and 
 graphics in a way to set an atmosphere that will scare players as they work their way through the 
 game.
  I have not had any problems playing this game but I just made a new computer before it came out. 
 I understand some people may or have had problems playing this game but I did not have any problems 
 and played the whole game with no glitches. Actualy this is one of the few games I have played 
 without any problems. I did and do not need a patch to play the whole game to completion. Well 
 done!
  This game does have replay value and can have a variety of outcomes as far as rpg value anotherwords 
 using different configurations of weapons and so called skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emi_nem_313
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I`m happy that I had played this game it`s good it`s real good but it could been better .... I 
 don`t like the chars, they look like are from a cartoon.... I was hoping that the game will look 
 more real ... more next gen ... but the graphics are good the idea is extraordinary ... but those 
 chars.... the games should look more real from now on ... like u are in reality ... sorry to write 
 this here but I`m still w8ing for crysis ... no ifence but form trailers ... it sure look better 
 maybe not such a ingenoius, new and good idea like Bioshock but stil .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_G
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Despite all the sniveling I have seen about this game, I ran it on a 2yr old fx-55 with 2x6800gts 
 in SLI and 2 gig of ram and it constantly runs at 30-40 fps according to fraps. The game has two 
 things that so many games skimp on, plot and characters. Nicely done.
  
  Another aspect of this game that I especially enjoyed is the creepy environment. Who doesn't like 
 to bring a demented genius to justice? If I have to go through that plot, and it is nice, it should 
 be set in a rambling, submerged, sixties style, high-tech bad guy lair. All the people being trapped 
 there adds a very contemporary Lost / Posiedon Adventure feel. The problem with such a well developed 
 hype- machine is that when you sell 100's of thousands of copies you are bound to increase the 
 number of playability issues.
  
  Agent G
  
  ps I am using xp and playing with the 'high' settings on everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  This is a game that is over rated in some parts but credited in other parts!!! it doesn; t make 
 sense!
  
  gameplay - A bit more action packed than your standard FPS. The effects in this are amazing (imagine 
 FEAR but in DX10 mode) and they actually have bullet holes in characters which makes it soo much 
 better to play. The enemies aren't very varied with just different variants of the mutants (basically 
 humans) and the Big Daddies. But that doesn; t make it bad!. The guns are WW2 kinda and look so 
 bad (I hate old guns) but the pistol is great fun to use. most guns are underpowered and the enemies 
 can take like 8shots in chest which is kinda unreal. But this is sooo action packed chaos and it 
 gets crazy when you have like 5 security bot shooting at each other. The levels are suprising open 
 with dozens of extra rooms to explore and the enviroment is pretty big and the atmosphere is amazing! 
 Story is longer than I thought which is good!! Plasmids don't do much though and I mostly use them 
 to control Big Daddies which is great fun. Nothing revolutionary though but is above average. Graphics 
 - this is the thing that saved the game. If these graphics weren't so realistic and nice this game 
 would have been nothing special. Spectacular water effects and amazing heat distoring that come 
 out of a fired gun barrel is great. Just make sure you have a 7600GT and Dual Core if you wanna 
 run it at High settings. At the start with all the fire and the outside look of the city kinda 
 gives players an impression that their PC won't handle it but thats probably the lowest Framerates 
 you'll get so don't worry if it is laggy at the starting bits!
  
  Sound - Gun shots sound powerful, to bad they aren't. Music is good but kinda annoying. Nothing 
 special.
  
  Value - For $60 or so it isn't that worth it. Should wait till it is like 50$ or so cause I don't 
 see any replayability with the low amount of guns and the lack of enemy units and after you have 
 gotten used to the fantastic graphics there isn't much left.
  
  Other - Money cheat required!!! You don't get enough ammo so you MUST do the money cheat to buy 
 stuff out of the vending machines. Because even with the money cheat and max ammo for every gun 
 I still find myself running out of ammo for certain guns. (my aiming ain't that bad :P) Big Daddies 
 are like boss fights and are the highlight of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stealthsid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, but I feel the need to add the proverbial grain of salt to take the edge 
 off of the hype machine.
  
  If you're looking for a short single player FPS with light RPG elements this game is pretty freakin' 
 sweet . The enrivonment details (graphics and audio) are amazing and really provide gameplay immersion. 
 It's so immersive it completely makes up for the unimpressive storyline progression. That's not 
 to say the plot is uninteresting. It's reasonably compelling, but it's not on par with the quality 
 of the graphics. Also it's primarily driven through a one-way radio which really degrades its impact. 
 If the graphics made it feel as though I was actually in an underwater city, after a short while 
 the storyline and plot made me feel like I was sitting on a couch trying to get to the next level 
 in a video game. The tasks become very pedestrians. The contrast of the plot and the immersive 
 feel of the graphics is the perfect example of why this game isn't as perfect as the critical acclaim 
 suggests. This game excels despite it's drawbacks, but it still has some sizeable drawbacks.
  
  The gameplay is great for a while. The action is fast paced, fun, and as the game progresses 
 it becomes increasingly necessary to use plasmids (which is fun) . This creates a setting for really 
 deep fighting (as many reviews mention) , but then comes the rub . The fighting *could* be deep, 
 but at the normal difficulty level I found it completely unnecessary to do anything more than use 
 ignite, electroshock, and my best weapon at the time (occasionally using other plasmids, but really 
 not enough to make the fighting experience deep ) . Money and items are too plentiful and because 
 of this encounters with Big Daddy's suffers. With the exception of the first couple of encounters, 
 Big Daddy's are simply an exercise in unloading (your plentiful) optimum ammo. There's one ammo 
 type that not only does significant damage, but it stuns the Big Daddy. I just horde that ammo 
 until I see a Big Daddy, unload on him, and reap the benefits.
  
  [NOT QUITE SPOILER ALERT]
  I'm not going to spoil anything, but if you're very intolerant to 
 even hints at end game stuff, then stop reading.
  
  The final boss battle was a double edged sword. It was by far the hardest, and consequentially 
 the most fulfilling battle in the game (as it should be) . But when you're done with the battle 
 you'll realize how shallow and uninteresting all the other combat was by comparison.
  
  And the ending was a complete disappointment, a 60 second cut scene... whoop-de-doo. I thought 
 I was going to replay the game to get another ending, but after seeing the ending I no longer wanted 
 to play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chewy_Crunchy1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  In Bioshock, you find yourself at the bottom of the ocean in the city of Rapture and such. The 
 action in the game is nothing new or innovative, not to say that it is boring. The lack of multiplayer 
 also is a bit of a takeback. Despite these flaws , Bioshock isn't trying to focus on being the 
 most intense shooter. It isn't using special powers; the game revolves around a story so twisted 
 and interesting that one must play through a second time to get a firm grasp on the plot. If you 
 wish to get the game, do not look or discuss the plot because it is the core of the game. The atmosphere 
 in Bioshock can be a bit creepy at times, but a bit less scary after a while. People have complained 
 about the difficulty. If you are an experienced gamer, it may not be a the challenge you are looking 
 for. Again, the game is about the story of what happened, who you are, where are you, and how you 
 can interact. In Hard Mode ,however, it is a bit frustrating at times where all of the ammo you 
 have is gone and the creepy atmosphere is getting to you as you crawl around with your wrench. 
 Although not giving many hours of gameplay, Bioshock is a great game that should at least be rented 
 to be able to partake in this epic experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LVscion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  System Shock 2 was a fantastic game, and while I suppose I didn't like Bioshock quite as much it 
 was still head and tail superior to most any other shooter I've played. Some early technical issues 
 prevent me giving it a 10, primarily that it took me 2 days to get into the game due to the activation 
 server being down. Companies need to find a new way to prevent pirating - a lot of the current 
 methods punish the consumer and only delay the pirate. The current system requires that 2k keep 
 the activation server up for the shelf-life of the game, which given online stores, could be 10 
 years from now.
  
  The graphics are stylish, and have that old black&amp; white This is what the future will look like! 
 feel to them. There are a number of interesting diary entries somewhat improbably lying around 
 where anyone could find them, but they add great flavor. Missing even one of these (such as one 
 in a certain dancer's bedroom) could leave a player completely clueless all the way to the end 
 about what's actually been going on in the game.
  
  Figuring it out is kind of fun - and I'll admit that I caught wise to one of the game's twists 
 early on. It's a credit to the designers that this is possible, and that an explanation exists 
 for you doing certain things anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuckboy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  There is a certain feeling that I'm sure most people are aware of; the feeling you get when you 
 first hear a beautiful piece of music, the feeling you get when the plot twists in the movie The 
 Sixth Sense , the feeling in which shivers run up and down your spine, all the hairs on your back 
 stand on end and if you're lucky your eyes start to water too. The feeling that, for all intents 
 and purposes, means Holy crap! That's amazing! 
  
  This is the feeling I got when I caught my first glimpse of Rapture, the huge, majestic underwater 
 city in which Bioshock takes place. There are many moments of awe such of this throughout the game. 
 The impression this gives is that Bioshock is less of a game and more of a work of art.
  
  It would be easy to think So the WHOLE game takes place in an underwater city? Wouldn't underwater 
 city get a bit boring after a while? The answer to this is of course no; each new area you enter 
 is drastically different to the last. From the grotesque cosmetic experiments in the medical pavillion 
 to the icy halls of Fontaine fisheries, from the thick vegetation of the garden district Arcadia 
 to the thoroughly disturbing attempts at fine art in Fort Frolic. If there is one problem about 
 the whole game taking place in Rapture it is that it could make you feel claustrophobic. I have 
 never been remotely claustrophobic and yet I had to take regular breaks because I literally felt 
 like the walls of Raputure were closing in around me, which really says something about the successful 
 portrayal of the city.
  
  The gameplay of Bioshock is very good, but nothing revolutionary. It plays like a standard run 
 and gun shooter, but if you've played a few tactical shooters you can carry your tactics over to 
 a certain extent. The main enemies of the game are splicers, which weild pipes, pistols, machineguns, 
 meathooks and plasmid powers. Most of the areas in rapture are pretty non linear, allowing you 
 to catch your pursuers off guard by circling round a different path and shooting them from behind. 
 This is difficult though since the splicers are pretty perceptive.
  
  The plasmids/gene tonic powers essentially offer some character progression and some hilarious 
 ways of killing or stunning foes. There's the electrobolt, which stuns enemies so that you can 
 whack them with your trusty wrench, incinerate, which sets enemies on fire, and many others including 
 cyclones that hurl enemies into the air.
  
  Unfortunately less halfway through the game you'll meet the final type of splicer of the game. 
 From then onwards instead of fighting new, interesting enemy types you are fighting the same ones 
 as before, but with steadily more and more health. I'm sorry, but in ANY game a shotgun blast at 
 close range in the face should be instant death to all but the most heavily armoured foes. Giving 
 enemies more health because it doesn't make the enemies feel stronger, it just makes your weapons 
 feel weaker. In the later stages of the game you will likely get pretty frustrated at how repeated 
 blows to the head with a wrench fail to put down the very same enemies you were happily bludgeoning 
 to death in the earlier levels.
  
  Now I casually make some games myself and I know that a decent rule of thumb is that a very skilled 
 player should be able to avoid taking much damage if they play their cards right in any of the 
 games situations. This unfortunately isn't true of Bioshock. You can be drilling a splicer in the 
 head with a machine gun and he will still manage to fire his pistol back at you and not miss. Even 
 being set on fire doesn't seem to hinder the splicer's ability to fire guns at you with sharpshooter 
 accuracy. Even the stunning attack becomes nearly useless in the end due to the fact that whacking 
 a stunned enemy with your wrench seems to instantly cure them of their electricution. This is a 
 common shooter pitfall the which the game becomes less about outwitting your enemies and more about 
 who can shoot faster and how many healthpacks you've collected.
  
  One of the reasons why the splicer health increase is a bad idea is because it is irrelivant anyway. 
 Why? Because every time you die you get resurrected at a ressurrection station, with everything 
 exactly as it was when you died. I for one plan to keep you alive says Atlas, well thats really 
 big of you since its impossible for me to die. So effectively every enemy in the game is not a 
 threat, but simply one who will delay your progress. This sucks out a lot of the tension of the 
 game. You don't fear for your life because at no point in the game (save for the very end) is at 
 actually at stake. Want to take out a big daddy but not tough enough? Sure thing, just keep respawning. 
 Trying to make some headyway into a splicer infested area? Keep respawning. Splicer gets the jump 
 on you? No problem, because the spawn o matic is here. Oh and good thing the splicers can't use 
 it aswell or you'd have a lot of trouble shaking the angry horde of splicers who you've previously 
 killed. I really hate it when games try to find ways around dying. Its stupid. Part of the challenge 
 is the risk of failure and if you can't die then there is no risk.
  
  The Big Daddies are one of the awesome things about the game. They won't attack you unless provoked, 
 but you pretty much have to fight them if you don't want to spend 100 hours completing the game 
 because taking down the daddies is how you get your plasmid powers. The fights are intense and 
 difficult and you suffer heavily for not planning out your attack beforehand. Again though the 
 fights would be made orders of magnitude more intense if you couldn't indefinitely respawn.
  
  All in all the gameplay of Bioshock is very good but suffers from some bad decisions from the 
 developers in my opinion. The gameplay isn't that important in the long run though. It's the feeling 
 of awe that the fantastic art direction, incredibly well voiced characters and deeply unsettling 
 sound and music that makes Bioshock an amazing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dungeonbuster
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Gaming genres have become as diverse as film, creating worlds filled with the the most idealistic 
 of intentions or base desires with the stories that many of these explore. But not every title 
 with a glossy cover can deliver a compelling tale from beginning to end, often frustrating the 
 player with a fatal flaw whether it is with broken gameplay or jumping the shark with its narrative. 
 With Bioshock, 2K hopes to bring the kind of experience that is sure to fuel the question of whether 
 games are art and have players talking about in the same breath as anything that they have read 
 or have watched on the silver screen.
  
  20,000 LEAGUES INTO MADNESS
  
  Bioshock wastes little time on an introduction, placing you on a plane somewhere over the Mid-Atlantic 
 in 1960. One crash later, you're in the drink, swimming towards a lighthouse built atop an outcropping 
 of stone that points to the darkened, night sky with the moon gazing down at the burning water 
 around you. Swimming towards the steps that lead into the structure, you'll soon find yourself 
 heading down into one man's vision of paradise.
  
  In the late 1940's, a genius by the name of Andrew Ryan had decided to leave the surface world 
 behind when it failed to satisfy his own ideals. He set out to build the city of Rapture beneath 
 the waves... a paradise built by the hard work and sheer will of those chosen to live there than 
 by any government or belief in a higher power. But a discovery beneath the waves would eventually 
 upset the careful trappings of Ryan's underwater Paradise, setting the stage for the player as 
 they stumble upon what is left.
  
  IMAGINE A FUN PARK, ONLY EVERYONE IS CRAZY
  
  Bioshock's setting is clearly the focus of the game and if you are looking for an atmospheric shooter 
 with all of the trappings of a society gone over the edge and still falling, it should have something 
 for you. Designer Ken Levine has used his experience from System Shock 2 to tell another story 
 where the player is drawn into a world that once held promise for a greater future only to see 
 it burned to the ground by what it became. And if you haven't played any of the System Shock games, 
 not to worry as Bioshock captures much of what made that series great.
  
  Andrew Ryan, your erstwhile host whose recorded voice greets your descent into Rapture, comes off 
 as a driven man with a vision that no one but he can appreciate... a far darker, more ruthless version 
 of Uncle Walt whose fun park has broken and where the guests feed on what is left. The art deco 
 of the 1960's inspired environment speaks of pulp sci-fi, casting a long shadow of imagined prosperity 
 across a city dying from within. Recordings made by the citizens of Rapture, both the ordinary 
 and the sadistic, are found scattered in the gardens, shops, and offices that now lay empty and 
 stained with blood... witnesses from behind the curtain of Rapture's perfect life.
  
  Bioshock is an atmospheric game with the environment easily showing off what the designers have 
 done with the Unreal 3 engine to keep it that way with both the places you'll go and the creatures 
 that will meet and greet your arrival. There's quite a collection of psychotic, formerly human, 
 citizens that vaguely remember what they were, each one sharing a stylized look that sets many 
 of them apart and who are more likely to crack your skull than discuss fashion tips. Plenty of 
 period propaganda decorates every scene and looped recordings advertise their wares to an audience 
 that no longer cares. The extensive water effects are easily the most obvious ones in the game, 
 they'd have to be considering where you are, as the city bleeds water into its marble halls and 
 living rooms reminding the player that they walk among the ruins of a dream.
  
  The game will also confront the player with a moral choice, not once, but several times throughout 
 the experience, although many of the other choices that the player will make will focus more on 
 how to approach certain tasks... such as whether they should sneak by their foes or go in with the 
 wrench swinging. In addition to this, it also tackles many other subjects among the threads that 
 it weaves in between Rapture's former inhabitants as bits and pieces of the greater picture become 
 more and more clear. You might get drawn into the story of unrequited love, or become repulsed 
 by the sadism of one of Rapture's scientists as he calmly recounts his experiments on the living. 
 There's plenty of that here.
  
  And not everything is so obvious. Bioshock's mature rating is well earned, but instead of handing 
 much of its horror on a plate, it implies, insinuates, and suggests with its setting and what is 
 left behind in each of those recordings and what you may see. Much of it is left to your imagination 
 to fill in the blanks, such as a container marked Temporary Waste Storage that clearly isn't being 
 used for what you might normally think.
  
  SURVIVAL UNDER PRESSURE
  
  With the setting and the story told through it as strong as they are, the gameplay has its work 
 cut out for it. As an FPS title, the basic controls are familiar to anyone that has had a chance 
 to play a PC based shooter. It will also support a 360 gamepad, but I found that the mouse and 
 keyboard combo worked very well in switching between my weapons and genetic powers. But in addition 
 to the weapons and ammo types that you can use to defend yourself with, you've also got a chance 
 to take a piece of the genetic superpie that tore Rapture apart.
  
  ADAM changed the world of Rapture. Pure stem cells secreted from a particular sea slug when it 
 was part of a host, it allowed anyone to literally change their genetic makeup. Soon, an industry 
 was built around ADAM and the genetic modifications it created such as plasmids and gene tonics. 
 Unfortunately, it ultimately destroyed their society as war broke out over who would control it, 
 turning people into the Splicers that you will be fighting... former humans that had modified themselves 
 just a little too far. But fortunately for you, it provides an edge that you can use.
  
  Plasmids allow you to rewrite your DNA and give you a variety of powers such as being able to throw 
 lightning into a pool of water to shock your foes or use telekinesis to catch grenades and toss 
 them back. As you progress in the game, you'll find more plasmids that you can use but you are 
 limited as to how many you can equip at any one time. Gene tonics give you inherent abilities across 
 four different categories, whether it is something physical like toughened skin for deflecting 
 more damage or something that has to do with combat, such as improving the damage you can mete 
 out with your handy wrench.
  
  The only way to expand the number of slots that you can use is with ADAM which also acts as a kind 
 of genetic currency. The number of plasmid powers, gene tonics, and even enhancements to your health 
 or your store of EVE, the power needed to use your plasmid powers, will depend heavily on ADAM. 
 And this is where the game throws you that moral curve I mentioned before and where some of the 
 press about the game has focused on.
  
  YOU THINK THAT' S A CHILD DOWN THERE? 
  
  Little, pallid girls with large, glowing yellow eyes holding huge needles wander Rapture, draining 
 the blood from the corpses around them and drinking it to process ADAM. And protecting them from 
 Rapture's desperate citizens are the Big Daddys, huge tanks on two legs wearing dive suits whose 
 whale-like moaning and heavy footfalls warn of their approach. Tackling these walking juggernauts 
 will be something that you will have to learn how to do and will be among the hardest fights in 
 the game. Despite their huge, lumbering appearance, they can move as quickly as lightning and hit 
 with as much force as a sledgehammer packed with dynamite. As with most everything else in Rapture, 
 the pathfinding used will keep them close, but you can lose them... for a few moments at least.
 
  
  But you'll need ADAM if you want to survive Rapture, and the only way to get it is from a Little 
 Sister. After tackling the Big Daddy, what you do next will decide what kind of ending you will 
 see. You'll be given a choice to either harvest the Little Sister or save her. Harvesting her will 
 give you plenty of ADAM and allow you to modify yourself even faster, but she won't survive the 
 process when you extract the parasite.
  
  Despite what some in the press have cried foul about, the act is hidden behind a curtain of swirling 
 green and black smoke before revealing the slug in hand... and no sign of the Little Sister as a 
 chilling suggestion to her fate. Ken Levine and his team have left the viewer with only the barest 
 of hints that something terrible has just happened in much the same way that film has always done. 
 This isn't new.
  
  Michael Mann's version of The Untouchables did as much to bring the point of Chicago's Prohibition 
 War home when a child is caught in the middle... a far more explicit and shocking scene than what 
 was given players in Bioshock. Granted, the player actively participates in the fiction instead 
 of passively accepting it as they would by reading a book or watching it on the silver screen, 
 but it is ridiculous to call it a murder simulator just as it would be silly to call everyone that 
 had gone on to see the Godfather trainees for organized crime.
  
  Because the game, by its nature, allows the player to actively make a decision, Bioshock's fiction 
 makes the point that it is trying to get across with a more tangible impact. Not every player will 
 see it this way as they harvest their way to the end for the points and the power. But the potential 
 is there to allow players drawn in by the story to dig a little deeper into the world of Rapture 
 and write at least some part of the story for themselves.
  
  Those that go through the game to save the Little Sisters also have the promise of greater rewards 
 to spur them on, including a different ending. After saving so many Little Sisters, you may receive 
 a gift that may include a plasmid or tonic that you would not otherwise be able to get along with 
 a few extra goodies that may come in handy. The game lets you know how many Little Sisters are 
 left on a particular level and rescuing, or harvesting, them all will be one of the most important 
 tasks you will need to do in the game. The choice is left in your hands.
  
  HACKING VENDOVILLE
  
  Vending machines of all types will sell most everything you'll need such 
 as first aid kits, pep bars, and even ammunition, using the money that you'll also be collecting 
 during the game to fatten your wallet which does have a limit. You'll even find a few stations 
 where you can upgrade your weapons, although they're only good for one use. With enough upgrades, 
 your weapons will start looking like something of a cross between sci-fi and steampunk, with pipes, 
 tanks, wires, and gears added in. Gene banks allow you to change the plasmids and tonics you've 
 collected and U-Invent machines can create special ammo and even a tonic or two given the right 
 ingredients. And Gatherer Gardens allow you to spend your ADAM on a few more genetic upgrades.
 
  
  Most of these can even be hacked allowing you to give yourself a discount on the goods. Hacking 
 in the game is a made up of a simple puzzle game where you'll need to link pipe sections together 
 to complete a circuit from one point to the next. Pipe sections are revealed by clicking on tiles 
 to reveal them and you're also running against the clock as fluid starts to trickle into the circuit. 
 Later on, you'll need to deal with working around broken pipes and alarm tiles and even smaller 
 fields with fewer tiles to work with. Depending on the gene tonics you've got equipped, some of 
 these can be a little easier to manage. If you fail a hack attempt, you'll get a nasty shock or 
 worse, flying security turrets are activated to attack.
  
  Hacking will be something that will be very useful, not only in using it to save a few bucks, but 
 in taking control of cameras, security turrets, and the flying robots that protect what is left 
 of Rapture and in having them protect you instead. You can even hack healing stations, turning 
 them into deadly traps for your foes when they try to bandage themselves up. Even your plasmids 
 can be used to give you an advantage, such as stunning security turrets with electricity to hack 
 them for protection. Or you can simply destroy them. Auto hacking tools can also be found, or made, 
 to solve these puzzles with a click of the mouse.
  
  As much fun as it was to hack my way through the game, it can get pretty repetitive later on. Towards 
 the end, I found myself using more and more auto hacks just to get through these.
  
  GENETIC DEFECTS
  
  There's plenty of action to be found in Rapture whether it's fighting an 
 army of Splicers or tackling another Big Daddy. After all, it is an FPS. Whether your fighting 
 style happens to be with the weapons that you can carry, or in using plasmids, or even a mix of 
 both, how you take the battle to the enemy is up to you with the number of possible tactics that 
 you can try. There are even one or two boss encounters that will challenge you, and the environment 
 itself lends plenty of advantages to whatever you decide to do whether it's setting a pool of oil 
 aflame or in using telekinesis to string electrified wires across doorways.
  
  But as engrossing as the single player can be, it was still a relatively linear experience with 
 a script that led you from beginning to end. Although you are free to tackle most of the challenges 
 in the game and experiment with plasmids as you liked, you really couldn't change too much in the 
 story other than the ending itself. There are moments where Rapture can feel like a sandbox beneath 
 the sea until you run out of things to do outside of the main story. That, and most everyone in 
 Rapture simply want to kill you. Still, explorers can find a few things in out of the way places 
 as the title allows you to wander around the areas of Rapture that you've already been to. Hidden 
 recorders and even a plasmid or gene tonic or two can be found tucked away in the dark corners 
 of the city.
  
  Saves can be handled manually, or you can hit the quicksave button instead. The game does take 
 some time to load the different areas, and saves can often be quick... if you are reloading from 
 within the same area. But death isn't something to worry about in Bioshock thanks to Vita Chambers. 
 Whenever you die, you're resuscitated at the nearest one with some health and enough EVE to give 
 you something of a fighting chance when you step out. It helps keep you in the game and replaces 
 the need to continually reload, but it does cheapen the threat of any danger that you might face 
 with the worst part being that you might have to walk to where you met your demise or restock your 
 arsenal. The game can also be a little too generous. By the time I finished it, my wallet was bulging 
 with cash and I had enough spare parts to build enough ammunition to arm several third world countries. 
 I was never really hurting for anything in the game, especially when it would spawn extra Splicers 
 to keep you busy.
  
  Splicers and Big Daddies will often return to places that you had just cleaned out, keeping things 
 interesting since it's easy to explain that they could have just wandered in from somewhere else. 
 But while Rapture doesn't use monster closets to bring them to you, it also tends to spawn them 
 in from seemingly nowhere at times. One task seemed to generate Splicers that would attack you 
 after you pushed a button, while another locale had Splicers cutting themselves through doorways 
 that led to... closets. How they got in there is anyone's guess.
  
  But the final boss fight, the climax of the action, wasn't much of a fight. Big Daddies put up 
 a better, and much more harrowing battle than the last boss did. And while the ending cinematic 
 that I got was satisfying, it was over before I knew it. No credit roll, no montage of images, 
 no hint as to what might have happened to the rest of Rapture. That's it, a dump to the main menu 
 and thanks for playing. The story was complete, but I definitely wanted more out of the experience. 
 The abrupt end after so long of a build up to it was something of a letdown.
  
  There's also no multiplayer which could have seen players pit their skills against each other as 
 fellow Splicers, but the game is focused primarily on being a solo story experience which is just 
 fine. Still, players hoping to squeeze more game out of Bioshock will see it as a missed opportunity 
 to see some crazy combat using gene spliced superpowers.
  
  COGS AND WIRES
  
  On the technical side of things, there were also a few oddball glitches especially with some of 
 the Splicer physics when they lie dead on the ground. Arms, hands, legs, and feet eerily twitch 
 as if the genetic spark that drove them to kill was trying its best to resurrect what's left. And 
 while the game looks great, there were a few instances where some of the textures appeared flat 
 and low res against many of the more detailed ones. There's also the occasional invisible wall 
 preventing you from going too far from the beaten path, such as being unable to jump over certain 
 banisters when you could elsewhere.
  
  When you try and replay the recordings that you find from the journal menu, they often don't until 
 you exit out. If you've clicked on a slew of recordings from the journal they'll stack up until 
 you exit and will begin playing one after another. There's no way that I could see to stop them, 
 either, once they start talking. Sometimes it works as intended, inside the journal, but not often.
 
  
  THE GREAT CHAIN
  
  Amusement park rides buckle you in for the experience, placing that bar across your knees and keeping 
 you in the car as it takes you through a haunted mansion. Bioshock throws out the bar and forgets 
 the car, letting you walk through the experience and take part in a great story as it unfolds. 
 Players can expect around fifteen to twenty hours of action at the bottom of the ocean depending 
 on what they do. But as Andrew Ryan will probably tell you, Rapture is what you will make of it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: landoresurected
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  I seriously believe that. It's such an awesome game. Combining what all the other games lacked 
 in the last while and adding a handful of fun! Plasmids, bid daddy's and even an underwater city! 
 You will not be bored a single second while playing this game! It's so action packed you may think 
 you have stepped into a dream game that could never exist. Pick it up as soon as you can because 
 there is no way that you will be disappointed with this game as it is impossible. Well I shouldn't 
 say that for everyone has there own genre of game that they prefer, but if you are a FPS/Action 
 player... well it's five simple words...
  
  Pick. This. Game. Up. NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  I first thought the plasmid system was just a simple secondary weapons system. However it is amazingly 
 well thought out and unfolds in complexity as the game progresses. And surprisingly so does the 
 standard weapons selections: I've been able to modify my pistol to have a really cool chain extended 
 magazine.
  
  While I've gotten much better at fighting big daddies, the feature I really like is the game's 
 AI for dodging and path finding. You can't just hide as they will find you! plus the bad guys wander 
 around and you will be surprised to find one in an area you just struggled to clear. Using terrain 
 to defeat an enemy? brilliant. using waterfalls or pools combined with the electro zap, or fuel 
 spills with the flame plasmid or throwing a tank of gas with telekinesis (or catching things thrown 
 at you and then thrown right back) , or enrage to get two enemies to fight together, or hack to 
 make turrets or bots friendly. My particular favourite: in the lower warf area, light a guy on 
 fire, when he runs to the water to put the flames out, hit him with an electo zap!
  
  Sound, dialog all brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mguilfoyle007
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  Read all the negative forum's reflecting the security that was implemented and this almost stopped 
 me buying this game, but took the chance and had no such problems installing/activating/playing 
 or my pc all of a sudden being abducted by Securom aliens that are supposed to exist, my advice.. just 
 by the dam thing and ignore the eco-warriors. The only glitch was the V-Sync kept being turned 
 off under Vista 32-Bit, this may happen under XP aswell, not sure. This game really did have one 
 of the most hypnotic story lines I`ve enjoyed in a long time. I am glad i ignored the negative 
 sides being plagued across many forums, and if you are like myself ummming and arrring about this 
 and you love FPS then you really will love this as the game unfolds. Now need to sleep until Crysis 
 arrives ;) Enjoy surround by darkness and with the sound turned up for full effect, cold damp cellar 
 is an optional extra :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  ***Story***
  
  At the beginning of the game you're involved in a plane crash and of course you are the only survivor 
 (lucky you huh?) . You find your way down to Rapture a city under the ocean that was built in the 
 1920's as a supposed Utopia where engineers and scientists could work without government or ethical 
 restraint.
  However when you get down there it's isn't the Utopia it was supposed to be, something has gone 
 terribly wrong..... very wrong.
  
  As you explore the city of Rapture you uncover the mystery of what happened and get to hear about 
 the lives of the people of Rapture through their diary recordings that are littered around.
  
  ***Gameplay***
  The game is an FPS that has what could be described as RPG elements in it 
 and a splash of interactive adventure in it.
  
  During your time in Rapture you will come across lots of standard weapons such as the shotgun, 
 machine gun and pistol. All the standard weapons have there own advantages and disadvantages as 
 you would expect from any FPS. You also find plasmids that genetically modify you so that you can 
 shoot fire, ice, electricity or even bees. All the weapons can be upgraded, some of the standard 
 weapons can have the magazine capacity increased, the fire rate increased and the damage increased. 
 Where as the Plasmids can be upgraded by finding/buying the more powerful versions.
  
  Key to the game play is the customisation that you can do to the character. You can use special 
 machines called Gene Banks to change the Tonics and Plasmids that are equipped thus giving the 
 player some flexibility.
  
  Other game play features include the different types of ammo for the standard weapons such as proximity 
 mine, anti personnel bullets and armour piercing bullets. The interesting thing about the different 
 types of ammo is that certain enemies are more vulnerable to certain types than other, this adds 
 a bit of strategy into the mix when you're engaging enemies.
  
  Another good part of the game play although not original is the camera. You take pictures of the 
 enemies and get rewards such as increased damage. More importantly when you take pictures you get 
 tips on what type of ammo the photographed enemy is vulnerable to.
  
  Now we come to the Little Sisters. The Little Sisters collect ADAM and you need that to purchase 
 Tonics, Plasmids and additional Plasmid/Tonic slots so that you can equip more Plasmids and Tonics. 
 To get to the Little Sisters you need to go through the Big Daddies that protection them. They 
 are big, mean and get very nasty when you shoot at them but I guess you already figured that out 
 by now. After you've got rid of the Big Daddy it's time to make a choice, do you harvest all the 
 ADAM and kill the little girl or rescue the little girl and get half of the available ADAM?
  
  ***Graphics***
  
  The graphics are simply astonishing! The artistic design and the level 
 of detail in the game is superb. It might not have the facial animations of Oblivion or Half Life 
 2 but it's not really that kind of game anyway.
  
  ***Sound***
  
  First of all the game has good voice acting, many games fall down on this but i'm glad to see or 
 should that be hear? :P the developers hired some good talent.
  
  The atmosphere created by the sound and the old music really make the game feel creepy and enough 
 gets your heat beat up.
  
  ***Overall***
  
  The storyline is seriously engaging and is well thought out. The art, the sound and general atmosphere 
 make the game genuinely creepy.
  
  This is the best games i've played this year, buy this game you'll not be disappointed with it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 2:51 am PT
Review:  BioShock is Irrational's finest offering to date, as well as the swan song for the Irrational brand 
 in a way, since they recently relinquished their longstanding and well-established studio name 
 for the more corporate, faceless tag of 2K Boston and 2K Australia. BioShock is a first-person 
 shooter set in the fantastically unsettling city of Rapture, a metropolis built under the sea by 
 the megalomaniacal Andrew Ryan. Throughout your lengthy stay, you'll find options for combat as 
 intricate and enjoyable as the story and characters are to interpretation, something that only 
 a handful of games can ever claim to offer.
  
  But to call this game simply a first-person shooter, a game that successfully fuses gameplay and 
 narrative, is really doing it a disservice. This game is a beacon. It's one of those monumental 
 experiences you'll never forget, and the benchmark against which games for years to come will, 
 and indeed must, be measured. This isn't merely an evolution of System Shock 2, but a wake-up call 
 to the industry at large. Play this, and you'll see why you should demand something more from publishers 
 and developers, more than all those derivative sequels forced down our throats year after year 
 with only minor tweaks in their formulas. It's a shining example of how it's possible to bring 
 together all elements of game design and succeed to the wildest degree.
  
  Customizing the arsenal.
  Things kick off with your plane smacking into the ocean and your character 
 having to take refuge in Rapture to survive. Irrational plays on the conventions of the first-person 
 perspective by thrusting you through experiences that toy with and vastly strengthen that fragile, 
 intangible bond between in-game protagonist and yourself. At times, it forces upon you moments 
 of reflection, which is so important and rare in games, where you contemplate the nature of blindly 
 accepted game conventions, which we can't get into for fear of spoiling things. It lays a relatively 
 straight narrative path for you, but it never feels linear, a result of the gameplay as much as 
 the narrative.
  
  The target in BioShock, Andrew Ryan, is anything but a prototypical villain. He's a man of bottomless 
 ambition who built a city under the sea, obsessed with the idea of what makes a man, what differentiates 
 a man from a slave. He's the Randian hero, a man who holds his own creative vision above all else, 
 and he's Rodion Raskolnikov's exceptional person, someone who can be excused for committing crimes 
 to achieve a goal -- and he knows it. His vision, Rapture, is clearly a colossal failure. The driving 
 force behind the game is your quest to discover why this man's alluring vision of an artistic utopia 
 failed so completely and why you've stumbled upon it. Even though Ryan spits out what seems to 
 resemble totalitarian propaganda, you can't help but sympathize with him. He has alluring ideas, 
 speaks them with conviction, and comes off as a sympathetic visionary despite his severe eccentricities.
 
  
  As you continue through Rapture, you'll discover it speaks to the nature of what a single-player 
 game is -- why do we choose to play a game that isn't online, where you can't interact with others? 
 Like reading a novel, it's to form your own impressions, to see the same events, hear the same 
 words, and come away with a unique viewpoint. The thematic blending and twining of BioShock's personalities 
 is so powerful, it acts like any good book or movie, assaulting you with its ideas, popping into 
 your thoughts when you least expect it, and broadening your understanding of what a game can achieve. 
 Instead of painting Good and Evil across the foreheads of Rapture's denizens with a neon brush, 
 Irrational gave everyone murky motives, much like the shadowed, soaking environments you're constantly 
 plodding through, or the blurred vision you get after walking under one of Rapture's ubiquitous 
 waterfalls.
  
  Hey guy, might want to check your pants!
  It's the little ideas that pop up from time to time that make this world so believable: the piano 
 plinks that resonate as you browse menu options; the guitars you can actually play randomly scattered 
 around Rapture; the way every room is realistically constructed reflects both the heights to which 
 Rapture managed to climb as well as the decadence and sense of voracious, selfish entitlement that 
 brought it smashing down. You'll hear some of the voice-overs muse, Why do they wear the masks? 
 Maybe there's a part of them that remembers how they used to be, how they used to look, and they're 
 ashamed. Little bits like that get tossed at you, and you don't necessarily have to absorb them -- they're 
 not essential to plot or anything, but they're instrumental in making BioShock as immersive as 
 it is.
  
  The game is broken up into large sections, each separated by load times. Don't worry; these aren't 
 load times like in Half-Life 2 where the game pauses unexpectedly. Instead, the load times are 
 logically placed and never jarringly interrupt the experience or mar the immersion. Each section 
 comes with its own cast of NPCs who aren't mere stage bosses -- oftentimes you don't even engage 
 them in combat. Instead, you are battling their ideals and their insecurities, grappling with their 
 motivations as much as the splicer minions who so frequently assail you.
  Just because the various versions of the splicers, genetically altered humans, are the standard 
 enemies in the game, they still manage to exhibit as much personality as the rest. They're not 
 zombies; they're totally aware. They're regretful of their condition, yet realize that there's 
 no outlet for them, no opportunity to express themselves or be creative, like an intelligence crippled 
 by hopeless drug addiction. That's true in a metaphorical sense as much as it is in the literal; 
 they're trapped in an underwater city, after all, much like you. It's almost as if BioShock's enemies 
 want you to kill them, to put them out of their misery. Sometimes they seem overly xenophobic and 
 at others whimsical, gallivanting about with an ironic sense of humor.
  
  They're such eerily spirited foes you may even come to pity them. The Big Daddies, for instance, 
 Rapture's lumbering guardians, will wander around stages banging on outlets from where their wards, 
 the Little Sisters, would normally emerge. If you've killed or freed the little girls, as you frequently 
 must, the Big Daddy will invariably knock again and seem genuinely confused over why nobody's coming 
 out as they stomp and groan their way to the next outlet. It's another example of the wonderful 
 details that make Rapture seem so alive.
  
  Giving the splicers what they asked for.
  Then there's the actual combat, which presents a huge array of options. Each weapon in the game 
 has three types of ammunition, all with varying effects. Then you've got a range of plasmids, genetic 
 enhancements to your character that allow for magical attacks, as well as myriad types of tonics 
 you can equip to augment plasmids' effectiveness or buffer your character in other ways. This isn't 
 a game where you're simply limited to an SMG or grenade launcher to attack, though you can use 
 those if you so choose. Tell a Big Daddy to protect you with a powerful plasmid and he swats away 
 any attackers. Set up shock traps with your crossbow darts and rearrange them with telekinesis. 
 If that doesn't work, throw bees at your enemies. Use the enrage plasmid and enemies will beat 
 each other to death as you hide in the corner. Then, as they're fighting, set one of them on fire 
 and toss a chair at the other. While some plasmids are more useful than others -- electrobolt and 
 incinerate in particular -- the number of ways to dispatch enemies is really limited to your own 
 inventiveness. Had this game been rife with AI problems, the combat system wouldn't have been nearly 
 as good. But as it stands, enemies execute interesting attack patterns, and the plasmids that alter 
 enemy behavior actually work, though we did notice one or two occasions when the AI appeared to 
 glitch out, making the splicer stand still as we hit it.
  
  If you wanted to it's entirely possible to plow through BioShock using only the most powerful plasmids, 
 but where's the fun in that? You can set up sonic traps for enemies that fling them into the ceiling 
 with deadly force, attach sticky grenades to environmental objects and hurl them at enemies with 
 your telekinesis plasmid, hack security bots to fight for you, or use the decoy plasmid to keep 
 your enemies constantly guessing your real position as they absorb bullets from your commandeered 
 machines. So while there certainly are methods of attack that can be deemed the most effective, 
 you're really missing out on what makes this game so thrilling if you fail to experiment.
  
  And experimentation is something you'll almost be forced into against Big Daddies, who appear 
 in every stage of the game. You'll find the game is designed to force you to fight these things, 
 and the damage they deal and punishment they can absorb requires quick reflexes and inventive, 
 on-the-spot problem solving. This goes especially for those playing on the hardest difficulty setting, 
 but even on medium Big Daddies put up quite a fight. Should you die, which as long as you're not 
 playing in easy mode you certainly will, you get revived at checkpoints called Vita-Chambers. Though 
 you get back some health and Eve, a bar that governs plasmid use, enemies don't. For instance, 
 if you've been hammering away at a Big Daddy for five minutes and gotten him down to around a quarter 
 of his health, that's exactly how much he'll have after you die and return to battle. It ensures 
 enemies can eventually be killed with enough persistence, which might be a nagging feature for 
 some.
  
  One of many possible scenes of destruction.
  Hacking comes into play quite a bit, since through the associated mini-game you're able to control 
 flying bots, turrets, reduce prices at vending machines, and open otherwise inaccessible doors 
 and safes. The mini-game itself requires you to match up sequences of tubes to allow a liquid to 
 flow uninterrupted from one specific point on the screen to another. Various tonics in the game 
 can modify the challenge, and you'll find the system possesses quite a bit of depth. Should you 
 eventually get tired of hacking everything, you can always make auto-hacks through the item invention 
 system or, if you're facing security bots, load up some shotgun shells and blast them to bits. 
 With the PC version, hacking is a more streamlined process since you don't have to move a cursor 
 around with thumbsticks - you just hover over with your cursor.
  Besides hacking and modifying plasmids, there are a few other interesting ways to divert your attention. 
 Embedded later on in the game, you'll find a camera that opens up a whole new system of character 
 ability modifications. Scattered around Rapture are one-time use weapon stations that let you further 
 augment various aspects of each armament. These aren't always out in the open, and often you'll 
 need to consult your map to see which rooms in a stage you've missed to find them all. A nice feature 
 of BioShock is you can revisit previous stages at certain points. Enemies will have respawned, 
 so you can pull more money, Eve and health hypos, and various other items from their bodies while 
 backtracking to uncover whatever rooms you may have passed by.
  
  If you're debating which version to get, the PC version handles better. In part it's because of 
 the greater precision with the mouse and keyboard, but also with how the plasmids and weapons are 
 selected. With the default settings RMB switches between the two, LMB fires, and we preferred the 
 mouse wheel to an the Xbox 360 version's bumper clicks for quickly cycling through. By hitting 
 Shift you can bring up a plasmid and weapon selection screen if you so desire, but the mouse wheel 
 scrolled through fast enough to stay useful. Note that you can't set LMB to fire a weapon and RMB 
 to fire a plasmid; there's only one fire function. We also noticed the option to bind the functions 
 switch and fire weapon and switch and fire plasmid, but when we tested it out these only switched 
 from weapon to plasmid and back again, much like the RMB default function. All weapons and plasmids 
 are also bound to the number and function keys, making it even easier to ensure you always have 
 the ideal attack at the ready.
  
  One thing we were delighted to see is how effective the wrench, the game's only melee weapon, remains 
 throughout the whole experience. Through various tonic power-ups it can even become more powerful 
 than a majority of your firearms. Since you swap plasmid powers and tonics in at out at any of 
 the specific vending machines, it allows you to alter your play style on the fly and utilize the 
 full range of what's available.
  
  Grenades are always effective.
  Really the best aspect of BioShock is how well all the disparate elements blend together. Story 
 plays out mostly through voice-overs, allowing you to stay immersed in the action as plot and character 
 is fleshed out. The sound design is simply amazing here, from the laments of splicers and the groans 
 and thumps of Big Daddies to the sickening smacks and cries of combat to the startlingly realistic 
 ambient noises and humorous calls of the vending machines. Even the near-death alert, which pipes 
 up when your character is low on health, is expertly woven into the game's overall soundscape, 
 unlike other games that test your levels of aural tolerance with sharp and distracting beeps. Every 
 character's voice is well acted. Andrew Ryan in particular is a joy to listen to, with enough vocal 
 gravitas to give Stephen Colbert a run for his money.
  
  To really appreciate the sound in this game, and not necessarily the frenzy of combat, but merely 
 the ambience of Rapture, just stop moving your character when he's alone. Now crank the speakers, 
 or headphones. You start to hear the metallic clanks, the otherworldly whispers, piping up at various 
 distances away, impressing upon you the notion that this world doesn't stop at the walls around 
 you. No matter where you are, there's always the water, a trickling undercurrent of audio, reminding 
 you of your precarious position within this crumbling city being crushed on all sides by an indifferent 
 ocean.
  
  The visuals too will constantly amaze, from finely detailed industrial structures to the weapon 
 models, the choices of which areas to light and which to leave in the dark, and plasmid effects. 
 And then there's the water. It's so gorgeous, rippling and gurgling through every one of Rapture's 
 hallways, tumbling from ceilings and, of course, encasing the city itself. You get lots of little 
 details to enjoy as well, like the welts on your hand when you boot up the insect swarm plasmid, 
 the steam jets that hiss from Big Daddies after they've taken damage, fish in tanks and in the 
 ocean that dart away as you approach, and the flickering billboards and tattered posters that remain 
 from Rapture's glory days. The PC version definitely outclasses the Xbox 360, mostly because of 
 the ability to crank the resolution to 1920 x 1200. If you've got a Vista rig with a DX10 card, 
 you can expect some heightened particle effects, crisper real-time shadows, and more dynamic water, 
 but the game looks gorgeous regardless. On our gaming PC running a Core 2 Quad processor with a 
 GeForce 8800 GTX, and 4 GB of RAM, it ran very well, with only a few occasions of seemingly random 
 framerate hitches. We also couldn't find an option to switch between DX10 and DX9 modes; the game 
 just seems to default to what's in your system, unlike Lost Planet.
  
  If there's anything disappointing about BioShock, it's the ending. We found the resolution to be 
 somewhat abrupt for a game in which so many things are colliding and bubbling beneath the surface. 
 Nevertheless, it's no reason to be dissuaded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConstantinNC
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 1:07 am PT
Review:  I base this review on the Demo only. It's a great game, graphics are stunning, but still it's like 
 any FPS shooter with great content, nothing new to the genre.
  
  What this game offers is not new, many other games did the same like Doom, F. E. A. R, maybe it's 
 only the DX10 that gives you a better graphics, but still it's not use to you unless you have top 
 graphic cards and Visa.
  
  But I have to say that it delivers the content very well, it uses the sound and shadows in a great 
 way, creating a nice scary atmosphere. Also it has a very nice control system, enjoyable and easy 
 to master.
  
  It's a great accomplishment, well worth playing, but you may sacrifice some of what it has to offer 
 if you dont have the latest graphics cards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gragnak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  So, here we are.
  What can we say about this game?
  It was a lot of time I had not the chance to play a game with such an intriguing story and well 
 made atmosphere.
  The world under the sea is terrible and horrific but something tells you it's real, it could really 
 exist.
  There's a subtle sensation of something wrong, something mad, something evil hidden under the ocean. 
 Music and sound: the oldies are perfect.... sometime I thought I was playing a Fallout game (I 
 liked it) ! But other musics and sounds seem composed by the same author of the Shining movie. The 
 global effect is thrilling.
  Gfx: really good. Water fx well made. My pc runs the game perfectly at full in direct x 9 with 
 a radeon x 1800 xt 512 mb and a dual core dmi cpu. Commands: it required some time to quicken the 
 combo left and right mouse button (powers and weapons mix) but nothing difficult at all.
  RPG elements: character powers and skills are there! You can change them choosing your style of 
 game and there's a lot of things to with them....
  Other sugars: tons of enjoyable idea...... the camera to shot photos and gain powers, the minigame 
 to hack bots and security, interaction with a lot of environment elements.
  
  This game is a good mix between a fps and a classic adventure with an aura of rpg glow around it.
 
  
  My unique negative point was internet activation..... I work at office with a ADSL connection but 
 at home I've an old 56kb modem (I live in house far from city and near woods, so no fast connection 
 service for me) .
  I had to wait more than 4 hours before the patch download was completed and my game permitted to 
 run. And the phone line dropped a couple of time while the resume option didn't continued from 
 the last download point but restarted entire process.
  
  But the wait was worth the experience..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HuxleyHobbes
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Those parts of Bioshock's story which can be revealed without becoming a spoiler are things you 
 are likely already familiar with; the transatlantic flight you are on crashes, you are the sole 
 survivor, and you make your way to a conveniently proximate lighthouse, wherein you find a route 
 to the underwater utopia of industrialist Andrew Ryan, a  character, 
 and thence proceed through the inevitably failed city in an attempt to get out alive.
  
  The story is the reason to play this game. I wasn't particularly interested in it until people 
 began talking about the plot and characters. Having now finished it, I remain of the same opinion. 
 I find the combat to be sub-par, and this talk of customisation is simply not something I understand. 
 Your plasmids and tonics can be chosen and switched almost at will, it's true, but I never really 
 felt that they had a profound effect on gameplay. This isn't to say that there is anything especially 
 flawed, but rather to caution that whilst the plot is all it's cracked up to be, the gameplay simply 
 does not justify the huge review scores I have seen this game getting.
  
  Ultimately, combat proves to be fairly repetitive. The only enemies I ever found to be a real challenge, 
 final boss included, were those Big Daddies who I couldn't easily take cover from. The lack of 
 enemy variation is one problem, but the lack of variation in your own ways to kill them is an ever 
 bigger one. Frankly, I ended up using Atlas' one-two punch for most of the game, just occasionally 
 swapping the lightning bolt with ice instead. Whilst some of the others might provide some occasional 
 diversion, and Incinerate especially proves useful for doing extra damage, in large part the game 
 can be seen safely with a few antipersonnel rounds and some EVE Hypos for your shock.
  
  My greatest complaint with combat, however, must be the environments. Reading the reviews prior 
 to release I bought into the hype about how you could utilize the environment effectively. I played 
 the demo, and wrote of the general lack of such there through remembering it was only a demo. Yet 
 the full game offered little more - many of the environmental weapons are exploding barrels we've 
 seen since... well I honestly don't remember a time in my life before exploding barrels. Oil slicks 
 and electrifiable pools of water serve as slightly more original possibilities. The other obvious 
 method of using the environment is to hack the various security devices around the place and turn 
 them to be friendly to you.
  
  Whilst enjoyable at first, the hacking minigame quickly becomes repetetive, and you'll find yourself 
 spending quite a slice of your resources either paying them off (I do like the idea that security 
 cameras can be bribed, I'll admit) or acquiring autohackers to bypass them. Most of the time, however, 
 you'll have either sneak past the security, destroy them, or delve into the hacking game. This 
 would be an excellent diversion if it were used more sparingly, but as it stands there were times 
 I would spend more time hacking than exploring or fighting, and it simply grew too boring to be 
 fun. Worse, the hacking grids can be filled with obstacles such as alarm triggers and overload 
 circuits - nothing wrong there, except that you'll occasionally stumble across one where they completely 
 block off your route. Frustrating.
  
  A final point I didn't like - whilst the level design is amazing, it would very often be the case 
 that you would begin a level with your next objective close at hand, and in one case literally 
 within view as you start the level, only for some event to waylay you until it could be fixed. 
 I don't mind this on occasion but it was overused here.
  
  Let us turn, then, back to the story. Yes, the game is loosely based around Ayn Rand's ideas of 
 objectivism, although as someone who tries to adhere to that philosophy I have to say that it's 
 not quite perfect. Nevertheless it's an interesting and intelligent take on an underused idea (Most 
 games, after all, have the evil empire, the honorable but misled king, etc. - you're familiar with 
 the stereotypes) . Ryan is certainly a character who can evoke empathy, even among those people 
 I've spoken to who don't share my own anarcho-capitalist leanings, and some of the recordings you 
 can find (Much of the plot is relayed by recordings by the characters you'll find lying around 
 Rapture) show that he's not the one-dimensional zealot he might otherwise seem to be. The other 
 characters, even those you never meet, are fantastic. A particular favorite of mine is McDonagh; 
 you can find information following his career and how his beliefs changed during his time in Rapture, 
 and I felt deeply affected when I learnt his ultimate fate.
  
  Even so, the story has imperfections. The first time you take a plasmid is not particularly coherent. 
 In the demo, your character simply walks up to the Gatherer's Garden (By the by, the Gardens play 
 a fantastic tune sometimes.) and sticks a needle in his arm. I figured the first time I played 
 the demo that I had failed to trigger a comment from Atlas about it, and the second time I played 
 I figured that such a speech had simply been omitted from the demo, but in fact there is no such 
 commentary in the game proper either. Another problem I found was the use of a particular dramatic 
 trope - I shan't go into details for fear of spoilers. Suffice it to say that whilst it was used 
 judiciously and sparingly there was no reason for these things to be happening, and so their presence 
 gave far too big and obvious a hint into a particular and important part of the story. I must confess, 
 however, that whilst I saw the path of breadcrumbs when I reached the trap at the end I still thought 
 it very impressive and brilliantly handled, and I had certainly not figured everything out.
  
  Yet for all the talk of morality, the moral issues are relatively simple. Your choices will 
 either lead you to an ending where you are as morally righteous as the Christ Himself, or to a 
 point where impaling babies doesn't sound like fun to you, but only because it's become boring. 
 It would be very nice to see more shades of grey, and there are plenty of places in which there 
 could have been lesser moral decisions to make (such as helping other survivors, who are as it 
 stands conspicuously absent) .
  
  The greatest point of note and praise is general artistic design, including sound. This is one 
 area of the game I genuinely can find no fault with. Absolutely everything, from the architecture 
 of the buildings to the sounds of the leaking, creaking city all around you is for want of a better 
 word, flawless. At no point did I find the single, tiniest thing to throw me off the immersiveness 
 and the atmosphere. The characters you meet or learn about are, as I said above, the place in which 
 this game truly shines. Writing an insane character is not difficult, nor is it impressive. Writing 
 a believable insane character who is genuinely unsettling, such as Dr. Steinman, is a far more 
 difficult affair but it has been pulled off with exceptional skill here, and no matter how bad 
 the gameplay might have been, it would be worth playing the game for this aspect alone.
  
  Let me end this review by saying that I am aware I might be being unduly harsh to the game. That's 
 partly a desire to counterbalance the masses of praise I see heaped upon it - when it comes to 
 story and atmosphere and such, I have no hesitation in considering this to be as fantastic as is 
 claimed. However, I must temper that with the realization that it is still a game, and that gameplay 
 must count for a fairly large part of a game's final score. Bioshock's gameplay, in my eyes, rarely 
 elevated itself above the passably average. Certainly nothing that ruins the experience, but nothing 
 to write home about either. The game is a vitally important one, and I cannot stress enough that 
 everyone should play this game - but they probably shouldn't play it for the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illiden5
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  what can i say perfect game for all the gamers in the world jghj ghfgh ghjgfhfghf fgh g
  g g g gg g gg g g g ggg g g g g g ggg ggfgh ggfhfg ghgg gg g g gg g g g g gg g g gg gg g g fgh 
 fg
  hfg
  h
  ghgdfg
  hdfghdf
  ghfg
  hdf
  jgjghj
  ghjghj
  ghjg
  jg
  hj gg ggg g g g g gg g g gg g g gg g g g g g gg g g gg gg g ggg gg g gg gg g gg gg gggggg g g gg 
 g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IntricateDetail
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  This game is so good it makes me jump every time a spider splicer jumps off the ceiling and lands 
 in front of me while screaming at the top it lungs. Never has another game been so worth my time 
 and hard earned money than Bioshock. Innovative, creative, revolutionary and scary. Everything 
 comes together for one state of the art game with tons of game play and a great deal of fun. I 
 love you Mr. Bubbles. I'm so glad that I bought this game and would recommend it to any person 
 looking for a next-gen FPS on the PC. Look Mr. Bubbles, it's an angel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THGarrett
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  So the story is that YOU, are traveling on a plane across the ocean sometime in the 1960's which 
 mysteriously crashes. Being the sole survivor you come across a light house just conveniently in 
 the middle of the ocean, which takes you down into the secret underwater city created by Andrew 
 Ryan known as Rapture where something has gone terribly wrong. The sound quality is excellent as 
 with a Soundblaster X-Fi and good 5.1 surround speakers everything sounds amazingly realistic. 
 The voice acting is also done really well, the sound diaries you come across adds some nice depth 
 to Rapture's culture and how it was like before everything went to hell. The music is fantastic 
 as it all sounds like something you expect to hear from the 1940-50s when Rapture was created.
 
  
  The graphics are top notch even without having to see it in DX10 form. Every area in the game is 
 completely unique and truly gives you the feeling that you are in a underwater utopia that real 
 people would live in. The lighting, special effects, all of it is just a real pleasure to look 
 at. The look alone really does give you the incentive to explore. Best thing of all the game is 
 really optimized and can run pretty well even on low-end computers. So as for the gameplay itself 
 it is your typical FPS shooter with added role playing elements to it. With the use of a thing 
 called plasmids you can actually create what type of character you want to be whether that is a 
 heavy melee type that can sneak around or even an engineer able to hack pretty much everything 
 with ease and getting special added bonuses in the process. While you can buy ammo and medkits 
 from a vendor machine, plasmids require a different source of currency called Adam that can only 
 be obtained from the Little Sisters. And each sister is protected by a Big Daddy, which is pretty 
 much the hardest guys you will every face in the game. After you defeat the Big Daddy though you 
 are given two options on how to take the Adam from the Little Sister. You can either take it all 
 and kill the Little Sister making it much easier to get the best plasmids available from the Gatherer's 
 Garden machine or you can save them, which you will also get Adam but not as much as killing them 
 for it. Also there are plasmids, which can be only available through saving a certain amount of 
 Little Sisters such one that allows you to control a Big Daddy and make him your own personal bodyguard. 
 So thats pretty much the balance between killing and saving the Little Sister, do you want more 
 Adam now or get better plasmids for later. The choices you make also will reflect how the game 
 ends for you either with a good happy ending or an evil ending. There are many types of plasmids 
 in the game and only one of a certain type can be equipped, but as the game goes forward and you 
 collect more Adam from the Little Sisters you can create more slots and make you character even 
 more powerful. Many of the plasmids though can't be bought and have to be found whether in a secret 
 area or whatnot so exploring is key to getting the best ones. Overall though the gameplay is really 
 fun and innovative.
  
  For the PC the controls are as any FPS should be, is very responsive and the interface works incredibly 
 well. The game itself is pretty long if you let it, that is by exploring the city as it was intended, 
 which can take anywhere from 10-20 hours. Overall as a PC gamer you owe yourself to try this game 
 out as it is indeed one of the best FPS shooters to come out this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefreqfreak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  In this Generation of Games, its becoming more and more obvious that story and setting and not 
 just graphics can really set-up a game for a seductive atmosphere. Bioshock delivers on both levels 
 and the gameplay is fantastic in its own right.....
  
  
 
  Like the half life games, everything unfolds in front of you and not through a onslaught of cut 
 scenes. Bioshock Injects you full on into a unique underwater world and never sacrifices action 
 for too long in order to explain where you are and why it is here, keeping your hands on the controls 
 at all times.
  Set in an underwater utopia at the turn of 1960, Rapture is a world where egotistic engineers and 
 scientists can practice without restraint and you are discovering this world in what may actually 
 be allot later on. The Game makes you feel like this place, stuck in time and in the aftermath 
 of a disaster is a real, or was a real; living and breathing world. You get an unusual feeling 
 as you dont know what to expect from this completely unique world as you discover the populations 
 last recordings and little girls walking around with a guardian in a large old fashioned scuba 
 diving esque outfit.
  
  Bioshock also carries with it, a certain sense of humour making you feel unsettled throughout the 
 game. Along with the art deco, the music and sounds its almost totally contrary to what is actually 
 going on creating a very uncomfy and chilling atmosphere throughout. The fact these little girls 
 ( aka Little Sisters) call these huge guardians names like 'Rosie and Mr. Bubbles is a good example 
 of this. The fact it doesnt take its self too seriously helps set the mood.
  
  
 
  Bioshocks gameplay is plain and simply awesome, along with a handful of weapons that you can upgrade 
 in the game (it actually changes the look of the weapon which is cool) you get plasmids, or plasmas.... I 
 dont know what they are called but basically these are magic powers such as Fire, Ice and very 
 fun ones such as being able to have the big daddys befriend you, or have one enemy attack another. 
 These Abilities along with Bioshocks top notch AI can have you in some fun, funny and novelty battles 
 with every step. Getting one big daddy to befriend you in order to take out another for example 
 is hilarious and the game really lets you approach such situations however you want. The Guns feel 
 responsive and solid and the mixture of being able to use both guns and plasmids seamlessly due 
 to its well thought out control system helps a great deal. 
 
  All in All Bioshock reeks with the stentch of quality from every angle. The Game offers great 
 graphics, great scripted and story elements without subtracting from the action, Great music, brilliant 
 voice acting and variety of gameplay. This Game is for horror fans, action fans, RPG Fans and the 
 generic guy who doesnt have time for games and just wants some fun. Its certainly a game you 
 will want to play again and show your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anyjabroni
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 10, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  ( (NO SPOILERS) )
  
  Your first impression is THESE GRAPHICS ARE AWESOME!!!! That must mean that this is gonna be a 
 mind blowing experience! Your half right.
  
  Even with its fun Plasmids and it's no so fun shooting after beating the game I felt kind of let 
 down. The whole under water city thing was very interesting at first. but continuously walking 
 through dark corridors over and over and over got boring. I felt the game need at least some cut 
 scenes or bosses (real bosses not big daddy's) of some kind to break up the monotony of shooting 
 the same few characters. The Thrilling story wasn't so thrilling and the plot twist I saw coming 
 a mile away, even underwater.
  
  NO REPLAY VALUE AT ALL! You beat the game, about 2 and a half minute ending sequence (for playing 
 almost 20 hours) , the main menu. No multi player, no special features unlocked, no start a new 
 game with all your powers or inventory. But don't think that I hate this game, it was O. K. just 
 letting you know that the game-not worth sixty bucks. Incinerate and swarm plasmids = FUN! Overall 
 BioShock was like a great movie you don't really want to sit through again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Pros: excellent interaction; staggering artistic design; great level variety; storyline; fluid 
 blend of RPG styIe elements with FPS; use of Plasmids; water effects; Big Daddies &amp; Little 
 Sisters.
  Cons: some technical/compatibility problems ( also no in game AA support ) ; lack of enemy variety 
 ( Splicers ) ; ending isn't rewarding enough for such an elaborate campaign.
  
  BioShock offers an exquisite taste of interactive art deco upon a lengthy single player campaign 
 ( 15-20 hours ) , rich enough to entice multiple comebacks for a decent replay value - despite the 
 absence of a multiplayer. You play as the sole survivor of a plane crash over the mid Atlantic 
 in 1960, and you'll know why later once reaching the ending parts of the game. What a coincidence...... you're 
 just next to a lighthouse harbouring a bathysphere leading you straight to the bottom of the ocean. 
 Welcome to Rapture, a megalomaniac underwater city built fourteen years ago but wait, something 
 has gone awry as the utopia began to collapse. Still, the city shows all the retro futuristic bells 
 &amp; whistles all the gaming community is in awe with.
  
  The story slowly unfolds, namely by reading various personal recordings ( tapes ) left by many 
 Rapture inhabitants, now mostly genetically boosted into raged berserkers called Splicers. Eventually, 
 you learn how these altered humans became entangled in an uncontrollable conundrum set by one individual, 
 and also how the Little Sisters and their trusty protectors, the Big Daddies, interact in all this. 
 Whilst Daddies remain the toughest adversaries of the game when you tilt them, they become quite 
 manageable once upgrading your weapons and Plasmids around the end of the first tier ( Arcadia 
 level ) . Occasionally, a Splicer or two can deliver a worthy challenge ( remember the first Spider 
 Splicer you encounter ) , but overall the veteran gamer will deal with them at ease once the learning 
 curve mastered. There are six different cIasses of them, perfect iconoclasts looking all the same 
 at long range. They constitute the whole army you'll tackle until the end. The ''mini bosses'' 
 are just tougher Splicers. But fear not, each type boast a specific set of abilities: Leadhead 
 Splicers, Houdini Splicer ( teleports ) , Nitro Splicer, and so on. Daddies come in two distinct 
 models, one type in each level. The Rosie model fires proximity mines, and the (Elite) Bouncer 
 deploys a big drill causing a great deal of damage.
  
  In order to get the Adam resource needed to upgrade your genetics, you'll need to reach a Little 
 Sister - only by killing her guardian. There are an average of two-three pairs per big level. Remember, 
 you must kill the latter when it's accompanied , otherwise you'll have to combat a second one for 
 the same Sister: she must be there for the final blow. Then you're prompted to choose what to do 
 with her ( excellent animation there ) : a harvest ( kill her for 160 Adam ) , or a rescue ( free 
 her for 80 Adam ) . Your actions will imprint a slight change in the repercussions of some story 
 elements later on. Obviously, the dark/good system of BioShock doesn't reinvent the wheel yet it 
 works just fine within the overall presentation for a rightly timed additive.
  
  To resume a sampling of the mechanics, BioShocks excels to coerce the player ( in a very user friendly 
 fashion ) at mastering the quick use of special bio-engineered attacks ( Plasmids ) in conjunction 
 with conventional weapons. You can eventually unlock six Plasmid slots, along with six combat tonic 
 slots, and two other different tonic slots as well. These can be upgraded at a Gatherer's Garden 
 machine. There are also lots of vending machines, maybe too many. The Plasmids themselves are cool 
 to use and watch, yet the fire and shock ones should remain the most commonly required. Apart an 
 obligatory obstacle in early game ( Medical Pavilion ) , Telekinesis also earn to be learned for 
 it can greatly alleviate some encounters against Rosie Daddies, grenade turrets and Nitro Splicers. 
 The other three can be useful albeit not obligatory. PC gamers have the advantage to taste a pretty 
 much fluid control experience via the mouse &amp; keyboard, responding smoothly to the incessant 
 command switches required to survive in Rapture. Even though many observers complain about the 
 lack of death penalty and the vita chamber placement, where you reincarnate, it seems the developers 
 preferred a cinematic emphasis over the difficulty settings, and the control scheme to use help 
 to forget this little nitpick over time.
  
  The foothold bearing all the stunning artistic canvas harness its peerless foundation from the 
 exceptional level design beforehand. The development team took a thorough care to create a solid 
 construct from start to finish. Each level of Rapture has a distinct theme, coloring and personae. 
 Of course, each section keep a consistent tone as well but the variants remain a beautiful sight 
 to behold throughout, particularly when we consider the inherent limits of a submarine city. There's 
 a medical pavilion, wharfs ( intricate layout ) , greenhouses, an immersive staging frolic level, 
 engineering levels, apartments for the rich and poor, and so on. All this tapestry blend with polish 
 and styIe with the gameplay ride, two thirds shooter and a third explore/RPG.
  
  Alas, the game isn't perfect technically. At a first glance, the blueprint looks like an updated 
 Doom 3 engine: big indoor structures heavily contrasted, yet without the fine crafted details we 
 would expect in HD. For one big reason: the performance compromise needed to offset the incredible 
 water effects here in BioShock. Reflections, ripple effects ( the best in the market at the release 
 ) , all the pizazz the technology can offer then is there. On the other hand, the very basic ( if 
 not ugly ) texturing up close, very up close that is, concurrently help to counterbalance the additional 
 surface effects we can discern at the highest settings, namely under Vista/DirectX 10. Another 
 video compromising can be looked closely from the smoke effects. For instance, the tommy gun/pistol/shotgun 
 smoking is very state of the art, whilst the explosions just appear to be paradoxically last gen. 
 The game doesn't offer any in game anti aliasing (AA) mode, and forcing it via the video card control 
 panel doesn't work either at least under Vista/DirtectX 10 ( workarounds are glitchy ) . It may 
 be only one minor feature, but a landmark game as this missing an easy-to-access AA feature can 
 only be a technical drawback compared to cIassic shooters from 2004-2005 having it implemented. 
 At least the game is beautiful in higher resolutions such in 1920 x 1200, but if you have a mid 
 range machine better be playing it on a small screen. Otherwise you'll experience some irritating 
 jaggies. Speaking of which, without an optimized high end machine, be prepared for some stability 
 problems. Some may want to apply an upcoming patch before jumping in.
  
  The audio is superbly coded. The little environmental sounds like the wooden planks, Splicer chat, 
 watering, weapon sounds just pop in as music to our ears. Frequency range seems to be widely used, 
 so 5.1 owners are in a real treat but a good stereo set up with a subwoofer do an impressive job 
 already. Just one little negative here: the vending machine's circus music can be quite disruptive 
 to the nerves of an unwilling player that doesn't want to be at a theme park.
  
  These little geeky qualms aside, BioShock still deliver a magnificent retro futuristic construct 
 bringing enough innovations and polish to be considered as a landmark game already, just in the 
 eve of the late 2007 cuv&eacute; e ( a promised golden age ) . It admittedly combine many influences 
 in an original blend: Terry Gilliam's Brazil &amp; Twelve Monkeys; Philip K. Dick dystopias; Matrix 
 contrasts; Doom engine; fantasy theme parks; virus outbreak legacy. The ending doesn't reward the 
 player, especially for a cinematic experience such as it is, but take BioShock itself as an actioner 
 any video game addict should own and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elzzato
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  The games speaks for itself, just put the disc in your beloved xbox 360 or PC and start a new whole 
 world video game like never before since hal-life 2. The game will suck you in a half or less than 
 a 5 short minutes, when perfect sound and perfect match of graphics and gameplay get togheter a 
 reunion for marriage BioShock gets own personaly life and eat your brain. Its just perfect trough 
 the atmosphere, graphics, sound, and gameplay... amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, 
 amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, 
 amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, 
 amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, 
 amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, 
 amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, 
 amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, 
 amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, 
 amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, 
 amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, 
 amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, 
 amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, 
 amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, 
 amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, 
 amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, 
 amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, 
 amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing, 
 amazing, amazing, amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fuhjem92
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is a perfect combination of horror, adventure, action, and autonomy. There were points 
 in this game where (mainly the dentist office part) made me scream, and i quote myself, HOLY **** 
 in pure horror. The weapons and their upgrades made the experience fulfilling and the plasmids 
 only made it better. I love how it drops you subtly into Rapture and slowly increases the action 
 so that it never looses its flow (he he 'flow' get it?) , unlike Oblivion's, get stronger and so 
 do your enemies way of increasing difficulty. The need to make choices like killing a Little Sister 
 and receiving maximum ADAM (you use this to buy genetic upgrades) or rescuing them while only recieving 
 a fraction of the ADAM help make this game a personal experience too. All in all this is an awesome 
 game, while it has a few minor glitches (nothing serious) , it is easily one of the best games I 
 have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelicChai
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  To be honest I never really heard too much about Bioshock until it came out. It was clouded by 
 the upcoming Halo 3 so much I never even realized it could be such a good game. Wow, was I wrong. 
 This game is amazing, great graphics, great story line, doesnt really leave anything to be desired, 
 although I get a little confused with all the different choices and abilities it still amazes me. 
 This isn't a normal FPS where you go around and blast everyone in the face (although you do blast 
 people in the face) , it has a little bit of a RPG element in it, you whole upgrade yourself concept, 
 unlike most shooters where when you get the bigger gun you are more powerful plain and simple, 
 it a pretty fresh concept. Please do yourself a favor and buy it on Xbox 360 or PC, and start whooping 
 some big daddy azz. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhyeen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  No one is ever going to forget this game, or at least shouldnt. The none-stop action, shocking 
 storyline, incredible graphics, and of course the soundtrack and audio effects all contribute to 
 make this game a classic. It is no doubt my gold star game. I only hope that other first person 
 shooters (and all games for that matter) can take the hint, spend a little more time working on 
 the storyline and concept, and create stunning games just like this one. Thank you 2k (and company) 
 for making the wait worth it. Im anticipating more great games that will follow in Bioshocks 
 footsteps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentenced83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  The good : *Amazing atmosphere , its really scary when you hear the enemies crying and moaning 
 alone , or talking to god . great audio also , sound effects and music * Graphics : the best i 
 have seen in a computer game , the shadows and water reflections , is a joy to look at.
  
  * Gameplay : is addictive , there's so many ways to kill and so you can change your attacking strategies 
 , and use the environment to your advantage ( hacking turrets and cameras) , plasmids are so fun 
 to use and lets you have fun playing with your enemies The Bad :
  
  the protection system , sometimes the game refused to load and i had to re-install , not much variety 
 in enemies , lack of ammo in the early stages , vita chambers makes you play recklessly , the game 
 is easy ( even on hard settings) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huineng9
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  BioShock is a first-person shooter video game by 2K Boston/2K Australia (previously Irrational 
 Games) The game is a Games for Windows and Xbox 360 title. It was released on August 21, 2007 in 
 North America and on August 24, 2007 in Europe and Australia.
  
  Set in 1960, the player assumes the role of a plane crash survivor named Jack, who must explore 
 the dystopian underwater city of Rapture and survive the mutated beings and mechanical drones within 
 it. The game incorporates elements found in role-playing and survival horror games, and is described 
 by the developers as a spiritual successor to their previous title System Shock 2.
  
  Gameplay
  
  BioShock is a first-person shooter with RPG customization elements similar to System 
 Shock 2. A 14 minute video showing gameplay and some of the game's AI was released on September 
 20, 2006.
  
  The player collects weapons, health packs, and Plasmids that give him special powers such as telekinesis 
 or electro-shock, while fighting off the deranged population of the underwater city of Rapture. 
 The player at times will need to use stealth to slip by security cameras and foes, and can also 
 hack into security stations to turn automated drones to his side.
  
  The main resources in the game are ADAM, EVE, and Money. ADAM is used for character growth, EVE 
 (which is similar to mana or MP in fantasy RPGs) allows the use of Active Plasmids, and Money allows 
 the purchase of special items and ammunition as well as buying out (effectively bribing) security 
 bots and turrets.
  
  To adapt and advance his or her character, the player can spend ADAM to gain Plasmids to give himself 
 new or enhanced abilities. These are grouped under the Combat, Engineering, Active, and Physical 
 trees. The Active Plasmids are essentially alternate weapons, activated by the player in order 
 to be used. The other classes of Plasmids (referred to as Tonics) are passive ability-boosters. 
 One Tonic (Camouflage) causes the character to become invisible when he is not moving.
  
  Plasmids are versatile, and the player can use them in concert with each other and the environment 
 to great effect. For example, one of the first bosses the player will face is a crazed surgeon. 
 The player can use Incinerate to set him on fire, then as he tries to put himself out in a pool 
 of water the player can use ElectroBolt to electrocute the water. While he is stunned and convulsing, 
 the player can hack a nearby medical station so that it will poison the surgeon when he tries to 
 heal himself. Telekinesis can be used on all physically simulated objects; not only can the player 
 catch grenades or rockets and throw them back at an enemy, he can also pick up a burning object 
 or corpses and throw it to set an enemy on fire, or even defuse and re-set traps. The player has 
 a limited number of slots to use on different types of Plasmids, so they have to decide which ones 
 to arm themselves with and which to put into storage.
  
  Some (if not all) Plasmids alter the character's appearance, keeping up with the theme of sacrificing 
 your humanity referenced by Ryan in one of the game's trailers. For example, upon selecting Incinerate 
 the character's skin begins to glow red and flames radiate from his fingers. However, selecting 
 a weapon will revert the skin back to normal, suggesting that any physical alterations Plasmids 
 confer are temporary. The 'improved' versions of Plasmids have a more drastic effect on the player's 
 appearance; the initial Electro-Bolt Plasmid has little effect on the player's appearance - when 
 upgraded to Electro-Bolt 2, however, warts and skin disfigurations can be clearly seen on the player's 
 hand. In all, there are over 70 plasmids and tonics.
  
  The player can customise weapons to hold bigger magazines, to augment firepower, etc. at special-purpose 
 machines called Power To The People stations. The player can also equip each weapon with three 
 different kinds of ammo (for example, the revolver can shoot normal, anti-personnel and armor piercing 
 bullets) . There is also a camera in the game that analyzes enemies, granting the player increased 
 damage, Plasmids, and other bonuses when more pictures of certain enemies are taken.
  
  The player also has access to several types of vending machine, including: U-Invent, which combines 
 several types of scrap found in Rapture to make ammo, tools, and more; The Circus Of Value, which 
 is essentially a regular vending machine dispensing anything from cakes to first aid kits to ammunition; 
 The Ammo Bandito, which is another vending machine that specializes in ammo and offers more specialized 
 types of ammo; and other more specialized machines such as health stations.
  
  Instead of reloading a saved game state if death occurs, the player will simply respawn at the 
 nearest Vita Chamber. This convenience is not available during the final boss fight.
  
  Story
  
  Setting The game takes place in 1960 in a fictional sprawling underwater metropolis 
 named Rapture, built on the seabed in the mid-Atlantic Ocean. Constructed in late 1946 by industrialist 
 Andrew Ryan, Rapture was designed to be entirely self-sufficient, powered by submarine volcano 
 fissures. During the early 1950s, Rapture's population peaked at several thousand, though ranks 
 of elite grew out from the rest, discomforting many.
  
  The discovery of ADAM, stem cells created from a sea slug species by Dr. Bridgette Tenenbaum, further 
 upset the social division. ADAM allowed for accelerated genetic engineering research, commercialized 
 into a plasmid industry that sold everything from superhuman strength to telekinesis, with active 
 abilities like the latter requiring a serum, EVE. To effectively harvest ADAM, Dr. Tenenbaum created 
 the Little Sisters: young girls with the slug embedded in their bodies and mentally conditioned 
 to recognize the dead as angels and extract the ADAM from them, processing it within their own 
 bodies. The Big Daddies were simultaneously created to protect them, armed and highly-enhanced 
 humans within diving suits that escorted the Sisters.
  
  The mobster and smuggler Frank Fontaine used his influence, and connection with Tenenbaum, to gain 
 enough wealth and followers to challenge Ryan's will, while a man known as Atlas led an uprising 
 of the lower classes also set to undermine Ryan. On the eve of the 1959 New Year, Atlas initiated 
 a riot that collapsed Rapture's society, the lower classes using all the ADAM they could find to 
 overwhelm the upper classes. A few members, such as Ryan and Dr. Tenenbaum, were able to lock themselves 
 away from the riots, but most of the population was killed in the attacks. The surviving attackers 
 became known as Splicers due to their excessive use of plasmids, and have continued to scavenge 
 the city ever since.
  
  Plot The player takes the role of Jack (taken from the name on the package he holds) , a passenger 
 on a plane that crashes over the Atlantic Ocean near Rapture in 1960. Descending into Rapture via 
 a bathysphere terminus, he discovers the city has fallen into chaos. Upon arrival, Atlas assists 
 Jack via radio in making his way to safety through the Splicers, while Ryan, believing Jack to 
 be a government agent, uses Rapture's automated systems and his pheromone-controlled Splicer armies 
 to try to kill Jack. Atlas tells Jack that the only way he can survive is to inject himself with 
 plasmids and to use the abilities they give him, as well as killing the Little Sisters to extract 
 their ADAM. However, Dr. Tenenbaum insists that Jack only kill the sea slug embedded in each Little 
 Sister, so as to rescue the human girl; she promises that she will reward him greatly for saving 
 the girls. As Jack works his way through the city, he learns through audio journals and diaries 
 of the deceased left about Rapture's fate. Atlas' past actions have led Ryan to kidnap his wife 
 and child and lock them in a submarine. While Atlas and Jack are able to make their way to submarine 
 bay, they are not able to stop Ryan from blowing up the submarine; an enraged Atlas tells Jack 
 he must find and kill Ryan.
  
  Jack makes his way to Ryan, who has stopped putting up any resistance to Jack's efforts. Instead, 
 he reveals to Jack why he is here: Jack was actually born in Rapture just two years ago, having 
 been genetically modified to mature rapidly; he is Ryan's illegitimate son as a result of an affair 
 with Jasmine Jolene, an exotic dancer. Ryan further informs Jack that he was trained by Fontaine 
 to be an assassin through mental conditioning triggered by specific phrases, then sent topside 
 with specific instructions to hijack and crash an airplane to allow Jack to return to rapture. 
 Ryan calmly demonstrates Jack's lack of free will by ordering Jack to kill him, using the trigger 
 phrase Would you kindly... . Jack realizes that Atlas has been using the same phrase since he arrived 
 in Rapture. After Ryan is dead, Atlas reveals himself to be Fontaine. With Ryan dead, Fontaine 
 no longer needs Jack, and leaves him at the mercy of the reactivated security systems. However, 
 Dr. Tenenbaum and her Little Sisters save Jack before security kills him.
  
  After Jack recovers from unconsciousness, Dr. Tenenbaum assists him in breaking the remaining conditioned 
 responses, some of which she had deactivated previously. During the subsequent pursuit of Fontaine, 
 the doctor predicts that the only way to get through the last few obstacles would be to assemble 
 a Big Daddy suit and follow the rescued Little Sisters through passageways only they can open. 
 By the time Jack reaches him, Fontaine has injected himself with vast amounts of ADAM, becoming 
 an inhuman monster. Jack and the Little Sisters are eventually able to subdue Fontaine, the Little 
 Sisters swarm Atlas/Fontaine and stab him to death with their ADAM needles. Two endings are possible 
 depending on how the player interacted with the Little Sisters. If the player did not harvest any, 
 the ending shows the rescued Sisters returning to the surface and living full lives under Jack's 
 care. Otherwise the ending shows Jack turning on the Sisters after defeating Fontaine; at some 
 later point, a naval submarine carrying submarine-launched ballistic missiles comes across the 
 wreckage of the plane when it is surrounded by bathyspheres and attacked by Splicers.
  
  Technical issues
  
  Issues with the Field of View With the release of the PC demo, several 
 players noted that BioShock seemed to use a cropping method for its widescreen display, cutting 
 down on the vertical view rather than expanding the horizontal width. This display method seemed 
 to contradict a previous statement made by 2K Boston lead programmer Chris Kline in May 2007 that 
 the game will render in full 16:9 aspect ratio, with no letterboxing and you will see more in widescreen. 
 We use a different projection matrix; there is no squashing or stretching of the image involved. 
 However, it was determined that it was not the case that the widescreen version was a letterbox 
 version of the 4:3 display, but instead that the field of view (FOV) was set in such way that gave 
 the 4:3 screen a larger vertical view. 2K Games stated that the FOV was designed this way intentionally. 
 On August 23, 2007, 2K Games announced that they will release a patch that will allow PC users 
 to change the FOV value.
  
  Issues with SecuROM activation and copy protection
  
  When BioShock was released, the client only allowed for two installations and required an Internet 
 connection in order to activate the product. Due to criticism, this limit has been increased to 
 five activations. After the five activation limit is reached, the user must manually activate the 
 product again via telephone support due to a new version of the content protection system known 
 as SecuROM.
  
  2K Games has responded to the criticism by stating that a special-purpose pre-uninstallation utility 
 that will refund activation slots to a user will be developed and made available in the future. 
 If the yet-to-be-released application is not used before uninstalling the game, SecuROM considers 
 the player to still be using the game, and the activation is unrecoverable without contacting SecuROM 
 and sending them a picture of the DVD and the booklet with the CD key in order to get a new key 
 or deactivate old installations.
  
  SecuROM will abort running (thus aborting the game too) if it finds specific blacklisted tools 
 running. Microsoft's RootkitRevealer software tool identifies SecuROM as a possible rootkit due 
 to the insertion of null keys into the registry that cannot be removed using Windows' built-in 
 Registry Editor. This has caused some confusion, but 2k Games has confirmed that it is not a rootkit. These 
 keys remain on the system even after BioShock and SecuROM are uninstalled, with SecuROM currently 
 providing no means to delete the registry keys, instead one may use Microsoft's RegDelNull to remove 
 the registry keys. According to Ken Levine, what is installed on the user's system is not a rootkit.
 
  
  SecuROM has also been reported to be responsible for a cancellation of a midnight release in Australia 
 due to downtime of the 2K Games servers on August 23, 2007, as the game would be unplayable until 
 they were back up.
  
  The BioShock demo also installs SecuROM. The SecuROM software remains on the system with no option 
 for uninstallation, even if the demo itself is removed.
  
  Although the game's copy protection has already been cracked, Ken Levine, lead designer for the 
 game, stated that it will be removed at some undisclosed point in the future.
  
  Issues with the Stability
  
  The PC version of Bioshock has many stability issues with many 
 users complaining of random crashes after certain periods of time, crashes at specific places and 
 audio problems regardless of the system that the game is being run on. As of now, 2K Games has 
 not announced any plans for an official patch outside of a single forum post, leaving many PC users 
 upset as the Xbox version received a patch first despite having fewer issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joubei2000
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  Even before starting you hear the bazz a mile away, but when entering the world of rapture (the 
 underwater city) you get the feel that somehow beneath the cool looks and the strange vibe you 
 kinda been there already, sure the plasmids are cool, but didn't i already used magic in oblivion... 
 sure the guns look and sound amazing, but didn't I used them in *pick FPS Shooter* still i dont 
 get the intensity that i got from F. E. A. R, and I dont get the amazement i got from TES4 Oblivion, 
 a very prity fun fun game, and thats about sums it up, too bad the weapons dont feel as powerful 
 as in F. E. A. R, and the magic as err i mean the plasmids as cool looking as in Oblivion, the story 
 is most definently an original although a bit far reaching at times.
  
  all in all a game thats fun and definently enjoyable, but also a game that on the other hand would 
 not get you on the edge of your chair, or missing any sleeping hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorching_cool
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 2:01 am PT
Review:  Bioshock was billed as the spiritual successor to system shock and was a highly anticipated game. Does 
 it stand up?
  
  Without spoiling anything, the game starts off with you crashing into the sea and then swimming 
 to a nearby lighthouse like thing (in the middle of the ocean) which leads you to rapture, a utopia 
 thats gone dystopic.
  
  Graphics:9.5
  
  The game's settings are retro, but futuristic at the same time. The game is beautiful, right from 
 the architecture of the city, to the clunky heavy big daddies to the horrific zombie like expressions 
 of the citizens of rapture. It's all there, the lighting effects are stunning in one word, and the 
 water shames real life water. (they actually had a separate water team for the job) . This is one 
 game that should be experienced on a high end pc.
  
  Sounds:9
  
  The sounds of rapture will fill you with pity, hatred, love, agony and sadness. The voice acting is 
 fantastic.
  The interplay between sound and graphics in this game is really really good. The groans of the big 
 daddies sounds like a rhino in heat (it's a good thing) , while the little sisters sound innocent 
 and sweet but look sinister. The contrast occurs with the citizens of rapture too, while you feel 
 sorry for them when you hear their cries, but you also what the smash their skulls. The sound track 
 has a lot of retro songs that suit the environment.
  The main theme here is contrast and it works eerily, scarily well... the pleasures of clobbering 
 a splicer with blues in the background... aaah.
  
  Gameplay:7
  
  This is the heart and soul of a game, and this is where bioshock loses it as well, despite having 
 a very good story.
  The game in the beginning wows you with its eye and ear candy, but at the heart it's your typical 
 shooter with a few RPG elements embedded. After a while, when the glitter gets off your eyes you 
 start to see that your effectively doing the same thing again and again. There's no variety in the 
 levels at all. Most of the plasmids arent usefull at all. You might never even use them.
  The combat doesnt feel good for some reason. The big daddy fights could've been tougher a little 
 more varied. And towards the end it's like trudging through the filler pages in a book to get to 
 the climax.
  
  Value:7
  
  Nothing much to do after you play through twice for the different endings, and the endings aren't 
 really anything to die for, the ending video was pretty disappointing to say the least.
  
  Tilt:8.5
  
  Overall this is a game that had the potential to do so much more but ended up being 
 a decent shooter, with a very good story. Not quite the next half life or system shock two people 
 were expecting, but still should be played by everybody. Overall score:8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TraAus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is quite possibly one of the best and most original shooters to date. As of the past 10 
 years shooters usually come in the flavors of WWII (or some other war) , Humans vs. aliens, or humans 
 vs. zombies (or demonic forces) . As far back as I can remember theres hasn't been a shooter based 
 in the 1960's in a underwater city that closely resembles New York. Though the game kinda plays 
 the experiment goes wrong situation, few developers like 2K have actually put the amount depth 
 and immerse storyline to use. A ridiculously rich man named Andrew Ryan has built an underwater 
 city, named Rapture, dedicated to scientists and artists who wish to leave the morels and laws 
 that hold their ideas behind bars. Of course what could possibly go wrong with a gathering of all 
 of the worlds greatest minds together and letting them run loose in a underwater city without consequence? 
 The game starts you off as a unnamed man, in a unnamed plane, heading across the Atlantic Ocean 
 to a unnamed destination in 1960. The plane unexpectedly begins to descend in the middle of the 
 night and crashes in the water. You come back to from a black out shortly after the plane crashes 
 to find yourself several feet beneath the ocean, as you began to swim to the surface you watch 
 as random parts of the demolished plane sink into the deep blue. As you reach the surface, stuck 
 in the middle of the fiery wreckage from the plane, you see quite possibly some of the most magnificent 
 graphics display of fire and water ever seen in a game to date. The fire alone looks very vibrant 
 life like. Reflecting off of the water your swimming in. I have the DX9c so DX10 is said to have 
 even better partical displays. The water is what will draw most shooter fans into the game, and 
 intrigue newcomers to check it out. The water has so many animations and looks so real its hard 
 not to just stand there and look at for a little bit. As you navigate through the water you find 
 that outside the fiery ring is a awkwardly placed light house in the middle of the nowhere. As 
 we would all do in that kind of situation we swim to it, to safety. Seeing that your the only survivor 
 of the plane you begin to search the light house. Promptly after entering the doors behind you 
 close locking you in the cylindrical structure. Its pitch black for a few seconds. Then lights 
 come on and the sound of music, appropriate to the 1960's, begin to play. I have to say the sights 
 and sounds that the developer compiled must have put a lot of effort in to the setting. You really 
 feel that your back in the 1960's. The art is almost like exact replicas of that day. And from 
 the sounds of the voices to the shattering sounds of guns it truly is authentic. And the voice 
 acting is absolutely amazing. Not necessarily in the variety of things said but in the way they 
 sound. Now with all shooters theres guns and turrets and guys with guns and turrets, Bioshock up 
 holds to the tradition of guns and turrets. They have the pistol, the shotgun, etc... but they 
 add some spins to your arsenal. Plasmids and Tonics, Tonics are passive abilities that you use 
 for many things. They are classified in into three category's. Physical, Engineering, and Combat. 
 Physical tonics will increase your movement speed and grant you extra damage with melee weapons, 
 engineering tonics allow you to boost your hacking skills and Combat Tonics give you things like 
 natural armor for taking damage. Now when you first look at plasmids you would think immediately 
 oh thats just the magic-and-mana concept witch is true to a degree, but the idea that its a highly 
 addicting drug called ADAM, the genetic makeup of the ability, that you have to use to alter and 
 modify to obtain the ability is certainly not anything of magic, and though there are some basics 
 like Electro Bolt, and Incinerate witch are just spiffy names for electric and fire based abilities, 
 there are also others let you send swarms of hornets, that hatched directly form your own arms, 
 to your enemies, and others that alter their bio-electric fields to trigger the alarms when their 
 near a security camera to attack them (one of my favorites) . With all of these plasmids and tonics 
 flying everywhere some may wonder where did all of this come from. It started with a parasite from 
 under the water that attaches itself to the host allowing it to become sustainable with ADAM in 
 the gene pool. The catch 22 is that it makes you crave the ADAM. If you like to use plasmids them 
 you'll hunt for ADAM. The more ADAM you get the more plasmids you can have and carry with you. (hence 
 the addiction) Now about the Plasmids they have more of a role that just another special attack. 
 The interaction with the plasmids to the environments and enemies. A couple of examples: One situation 
 is to light up an enemy with Incinerate, if he's by water he'll jump into it to extinguish himself, 
 then hit the water with the Electro Bolt to finish him off. Another is if you accidentally trip 
 a security alarm and it sends a security bot after you. By using the electro bolt plasmid it will 
 temporarily disable it. Witch brings us to another ability few games see, and thats hacking. After 
 hitting the Bot with the bolt of electricity you can tap into the system and attempt to hack it. 
 The hacking mini-game is the classic connect the pipes. Witch is simplistic in learning but as 
 you get further in the game it tends to kinda force you to use other means of success, if you so 
 choose to hack at all. In the mini-game it starts to add obstacles that can hurt you or trigger 
 alarms, I've see it completely cut off any chance of you successfully hacking it manually at higher 
 hacking difficulties. Fortunately there are other options, you can choose to pay with money you 
 find all through out Rapture or use an available Auto-hack tool that you can later create. When 
 you successfully hack something you gain some sort of benefit form it. If you hack a vending machine 
 prices for certain items are reduced and some become available to purchase. If you hack a Security 
 Camera it will then spot enemies and send Security bots after them. The enemies in the game are 
 pretty generic as far as the general run at you with everything they got However their backgrounds 
 just may support them a little bit. These ADAM addicted humans are the former residents of rapture 
 called splicers and pretty much attack you on sight. Now they are looking for ADAM as well so you'll 
 find them searching corpses for items and possibly ADAM. You'll be quick to discover that the ADAM 
 everyone is addicted to is harbored by the children called little sisters Though you might think 
 that it would be like taking candy from a..... well a baby, you will be disgruntled to know they 
 are guarded by these behemoths in diver suits called Big Daddy's They are not to be taking lightly 
 in fact heed all caution when around them. Its not essential that you take them on to complete 
 the game but thats how you get the ADAM from the Little Sisters. If you do so choose to go toe-to-toe 
 with these linebackers you'll need to use every weapon and strategy at your current disposal. (and 
 no I'm not saying anything about how to take them down, thats half the fun) . After your short victory 
 you need to make a decision with the little sisters who are now defenseless. You can sacrifice 
 them and obtain more ADAM to purchase more of those addicting abilities or you can rescue them 
 and receive less ADAM. Each dose carry it own ups and downs so choose wisely as there are a limited 
 number of Little Sisters in the game. Sorry to say theres really nothing to say about any multiplayer 
 options other than I wish it had something like find the Little Sister in the level or splicer 
 vs you or something. But if your one that likes to just play single player games (like the good 
 ol' days) then its perfect........ other than the fact that Bioshock needs an active Internet connection 
 to activate. To top it all off if your computer is aging on 2-3 years you may have some problems 
 running the game. Those cards that support only shader model 2.0 may experience issues, even with 
 the patches being released for it. Bottom line is that Bioshock offers a lot content to explore 
 in quite an original storyline with some decent replayability. Even with some of its drawbacks 
 its definitely a soon to be classic, a solid game with beautiful visuals. Regardless of your standing 
 of FPS, renting is an option to say that you at least picked it up and played it. Be it the XBOX 
 360 or PC just play it and you'll see......... Game Review By, The Overmind 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zardonaz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  This game has amazing graphics. The environments look great but you can get easily lost. The Map 
 is sometimes very confusing.
  
  Sometimes shooting at enemies does little damage even after upgrading weapons .
  
  Prepare 
 to die often. And it'snot fun constantly respawning in the same level just because you have no 
 possible chance against the enemy hoards/monsters.
  
  This is NOT an average difficulty game. It's a hard and confusing one that would lose anyones interest 
 except for the fact that it's really nice to look at. But even then, it's way too dark . (anyone 
 remember doom 3 without a flashlight?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 8, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This is going to be a very short and sweet review, which is quite unusual for me.
  
  First i would like to say i was very excited when i first heard about Bioshock. I've been a fan 
 of the System Shock games for a while, and generally impressed with products from the designers 
 who worked on the game.
  
  That said, i was greatly disappointed with Bioschock. Let me explain.
  
  It's a good shooter, 
 no doubt about it. Bioshock has an incredibly moody environment that really pulls you into the 
 game, good sound effects and visuals across the board, and a fairly refreshing combat system. But 
 basically, Bioshock is just System Shock 2 only under water, and a little dumbed down. This time 
 around they're called plasmids instead of psionics, and the environment is a blur of 50s era decor 
 and futuristic technology instead of straight up space-flight future, but the core gameplay is 
 established in exactly the same way.
  
  You follow a very linear path shooting things that jump out at you, hacking security turrets and 
 robots to fight for you, picking up journals to flesh out the story, and using vending machines 
 to get more goodies. There's even occasional ghostly disturbances, where you witness a semi-transparent 
 duplicate of a former inhabitant of rapture recreate a traumatic event in their life, just like 
 System Shock 2!
  
  Really, i was expecting more. As Deus Ex was to System Shock 2, i had expected Bioshock to be to 
 Deus Ex. I guess it may have been, if the project lead had been the same - In any case, the developers 
 did a good job making a solid first person shooter, but i can hardly call this a hybrid - there 
 are no RPG features like System Shock 2 or Deus Ex had, and there's almost no downtime - that is, 
 no time to interact with NPCs or go out and explore more of the undersea station.
  
  If you're a first person shooter fan, it's a good game for you. But if you're like me and become 
 easily bored with run &amp; gun scenarios, and prefer more engaging story lines or more thought 
 out gameplay, this might not be the best choice.
  
  All in all a decent game, but it certainly came nowhere near what I was expecting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Review: BioShock
  
  Bioshock is the spiritual successor to the venerable System Shock series, a series of supposedly 
 great FPS games on the PC, I wish I could say that I have had a long running history with the series, 
 but sadly I have been one of the many that have never played a game in the series at all.
  
  Story:
  It is 1960; you are a war hero on your way across the ocean on a Transcontinental 
 flight when the plane goes down, you wake up to find you are the lone survivor of the crash, near 
 a lone island which only has a skyscraper on it, which leads to the under water city of Rapture 
 and the horrors and psychological nightmare contained within.
  
  Graphics:
  WOW! That about sums up the graphics of Bioshock, the graphics textures, and even character design 
 will blow you away! This game is a feast for the eyes! Every little detail is lush and vibrant, 
 sets the creepy and unnerving atmosphere presented. every little detail here is lovingly wrapped 
 with its own look and atmosphere and will blow you away and helps to make Rapture feel like it 
 really exists!
  
  Music:
  Those expecting a good soundtrack for the sound department will be happy to know that they will 
 receive it here. Moody and moving all at the same accord help draw you into the damp death trap 
 that is Rapture The sound effects are also top notch and are as good as sound effects can get. 
 The Voice acting is top notch and helps to suck you in and every character has their own voice 
 as well as their own dialogue. That said some of the vending machines call noise gets annoying 
 after a while.
  
  Control:
  If you have played a FPS on the 360 than you know what to expect, though I found the fact that 
 the Plasmid, especially if you are using the Telekinesis power and Hack buttons were the same a 
 little frustrating the control is solid otherwise, and very intuitive.
  
  Design:
  Considering All of the love pored into this game I would have liked to have seen some multiplayer 
 aspects put in for after the game had been beat, but considering the single player experience the 
 game stand good enough on it's own, and with the promise of different endings being displayed I 
 will be playing this one for a while, and anyone who wants to play this will as well.
  
  Play this game! Do it now! Unless you aren't old enough to play an M Rated game, you will not be 
 sorry!
  
  Graphics
  10/10
  
  Game play
  9/10
  
  Sound
  9/10
  
  Fun factor
  9/10
  
  Tilt
  10/10
  
  Average score
  9.4
  
  Bioshock:
  Pros:
 
  Captivating Story
  Good music
  Amazing graphics
  Kick ass action
  
  Cons:
  No Multiplayer
  Some of the Vending Machines can get on your nerves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noneofthese2006
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Part of me wants to run counter to all the hype surrounding this game. Look I want to scream It's 
 just another rooms and corridor 3D shooter. It isn't doing anything that revolutionary. The AI 
 isn't as good as F. E. A. R. Half of the gameplay is straight out of Deus Ex and System Shock 2. The 
 DirectX 10 enhancements aren't all that great. Isn't all the waffle about interactive art and moral 
 choices getting a little bit out of scale? 
  But the simple fact is that I can't. Bioshock isn't a game you can compare with others in terms 
 of technical features, graphics and AI. The only way you can judge it is to take the experience 
 as a whole. And frankly, on those terms, it's out in a league of its own.
  
  By now, you're probably at least dimly aware of the basics. The game takes place in Rapture: an 
 undersea city built as a utopia by a rich industrialist and a gaggle of intellectuals looking to 
 escape the political and moral strictures of the surface world. Sadly, Rapture's dream has gone 
 horribly wrong. A mixture of deep-set corruption and dangerous substances has brought about its 
 ruin. As you - the lone survivor of a mid-Atlantic aircrash - enter, Rapture is falling apart. 
 Its tunnels are collapsing, leaks are everywhere, and its denizens have gone utterly, barking mad, 
 splitting into gangs of splicers' who roam the halls and corridors in search of plasmids', Eve' 
 and Adam
  The finest game of the current generation. Other games may match or surpass it on technology or 
 features, but it's hard to imagine anything competing in terms of storytelling prowess or overall 
 vision. A masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jd1680a
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is set in a submerged city somewhere on the seabed in the mid Atlantic. A man named Andrew 
 Ryan founded and built the city called Rapture in 1946. Rapture reached its peak in the early 50s 
 before a genetically engineering substance was discovered from a Sea Slug. It would be called ADAM 
 which would cause people who use it to be genetically modified becoming superhuman. This obsessed 
 addiction of ADAM caused the collaspe of socitey in Rapture. By the time Jack, your player, arrived 
 in 1960 everything in Rapture have went to hell.
  
  There are three basic commodities in the Bioshock, Money, you could buy weapons, ammo, health packs, 
 from vending machines though out the game. ADAM, can be used to increase your health, eve, get 
 plasmids or upgraded plasmids. Plasmids is special abilities your player can get. Eve is mana for 
 your special abilities.
  
  Gameplay can be really easy for some veterans. There are three difficulty setting for people who 
 wish to play this game at a more difficult level. Bioshock have two mini games. When you hack a 
 camera, turret, or lock you come to a pipe puzzle. Also there are slot machines player can get 
 to in half way through to win extra cash if you are lucky. This game offer alot of variety of ways 
 to kill your enemies and what plasmids you can get. There is really no wrong answer to what you 
 can do.
  
  Bioshock is one of the first games for the PC to use Unreal engine 3 engine using directx 10. The 
 developers luckly have game support for a widescreen monitor. Graphic detail on this game is just 
 amazing and beautiful for those who have a PC to see the high quality. The engine is very well 
 optimized with no issue of lag with minor frame rate dropping. Normally staying at 60 frames per 
 second throughout the whole game.
  
  Sound is crisp and realitisic feeling. There is no constant game music, instead the music is heard 
 if from record players and jukebox. Making it feel like a true first person experience.
  
  Bioshock doesnt come without its negatives. Tho there is one really minor one that some of those 
 who see it as being irrelevant. This game is fairly short, having about 12 hours of gameplay. If 
 someone want to replay this game, getting different plasmids and killing enemies differently, it 
 will take you less then a weekend to go through from start to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfredenburg
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Having just completed Bioshock I give it a rating of very good, but not great. Part of the reason 
 for some reservation on my part may be that I am a huge fan of System Shock 2;. Other than significantly 
 upgraded graphics, Bioshock really is so derivative of SS2 that it loses some points. With that 
 said Bioshock is much better and more interesting than the vast majority of recent shooters.
  
  I would give Bioshock and 85 and SS2 a 95.
  
  Factoring out the graphics, which of course 
 one expects to be much better in Bioshock, I am puzzled how anyone could give Bioshock a higher 
 rating than SS2. It does not have nearly the depth nor complexity of game play; and SS2's re-playability 
 is also superior. SS2 had more and a wider variety of puzzles and ts villain was more interesting. 
 For creepiness, Bioshock garners about a 6 and SS2 about a 10. SS2 actually had some very dark 
 and clever humor in it. Bioshock seemed devoid of humor.
  
  Still, all in all Bioshock is certainly very good and well worth buy ing and playing, but it does 
 not advance the genre like I wish it had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dezbrown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Well I've played a bunch of shooters and this is as good as it gets. Gorgeous, immersive (I can't 
 stress this enough) with outstanding controls. So far I am a ways into it and no sound problems 
 on a Dell XPS 720c. I bought it 2 weeks from release date so no activation headaches, sometimes 
 it pays to wait. This one is tough to play with the lights off! In a 5.1 surround environment it'll 
 have you looking all over for the source of those moans and mumbles. But worth the wet clothing 
 if you do it. The environment is so rich that you'll save at points just to come back and look 
 them over closely and you'll want to show those unintiated in the art of PC games. The Ayn Rand 
 utopiod setting is perfect. Having read all of her books it is great to see it visualized in a 
 wonderfully twisted fashion. Hope there are more games done in this type of 1930's art deco scheme, 
 it has it's own creepiness that it lends to the proceedings. What a great game, thank you very 
 very much 2K! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulletsword
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest when I say that I never jumped into the Bioshock hype wagon regardless of how much 
 other people I knew wanted it or all the updates on the game. To me, it looked like something good, 
 but not great. Now that I had a chance to play it, I was impressed and surprised in a few ways, 
 though unfortunately I'm still not lead to believe the hype.
  
  Bioshock takes place around the 50s-60s era with an unknown hero surviving a plane crash in the 
 middle of the ocean. Your only hope of survival would be to travel down to the city of Rapture, 
 an underwater city of paradise. Apparently all hell has broke loose and now you're just trying 
 to survive while solving the mystery behind what tore apart a seemingly successful world.
  
  Seeing as that this is one of those games with unskippable cutscenes , it won't take long to 
 get sucked into the cinematic feel of some of the game's moments. Also think of this like Half 
 Life 2 where you're never taken out of the player's point of view. This way you'll end up knowing 
 as much or not knowing as much as the guy you play as. From the start you'll know very little, 
 only having what you see and hear as your knowledge of the background story. The only way you'll 
 end up finding most of the pieces of the story would be to find recordings scattered throughout 
 the world. While it's not really a requirement for beating the game, it does a fantastic job of 
 portraying the feel of Rapture as well as the people who live and run it as well.
  
  With the actual mystery of Rapture aside, exploring it is also quite a neat experience. Bioshock 
 may as well have one of the best game atmospheres ever. Every little detail counts. The sheer darkness 
 and destruction surrounding you is a sight to behold. Look outside a window or something and the 
 views of the rest of the city are phenominal. It also does a great job of giving you the feel of 
 the 50-60s era as well as a few futuristic quirks. This is Bioshock's strongest point as it is 
 the greatest part in why this world is as awesome as it is.
  
  Of course, there's going to be a fine share of action as well. The game plays like a typical first 
 person shooter. You start out with no weapons and move on to getting a simple melee weapon and 
 eventually moving onto a pistol, machine gun, you get the point. There are also plasmids: these 
 genetic powers that are basically just magical powers to aid you.
  
  The weapons for some reason feel sluggish here. Maybe I screwed up with my mouse sensitivity or 
 maybe it takes a bit of time to get used to the crosshairs. I don't know. There's certainly a different 
 feel to the shooting when comparing to other shooters, but it just didn't feel as satisfying as 
 I'd hoped. The guns sound great and all and their looks even fit in with the time period and setting, 
 but I personally felt that the pistol and shotgun were the ones that felt the most uncomfortable 
 with me. Those problems aside, there's a bit more to the weapons system like upgrades and ammo 
 types, but those aspects are pretty simple and most of all, not that in deph.
  
  The plasmids are different. They drain EVE, just a simple replacement for a magic bar. As for the 
 powers, you'll start with a lightning kind of plasmid. Then you'll move onto getting different 
 ones like one that sets stuff on fire, creates a decoy of you, telekenises, and even a cyclone 
 trap plasmid which is actually pretty cool. The thing with plasmids is that most of them end up 
 being optional and you're probably not going to get all of them unlike the weapons. I enjoyed using 
 the plasmids, but I really wish there were more lethal plasmids. The lightning plasmid is actually 
 non-lethal. At least, if you just decide to shock people 
  
  But the plasmids and weapons actually conflict each other. No, not in terms of gameplay but 
 in terms of control. Pressing the right-mouse button switches between using weapons and using plasmids. 
 It's kind of similar to how you had to switch between weapons and spells in Morrowind. I don't 
 know why, but sometimes you'll be accidentally switching between the two and it can get really 
 annoying when it's done at a bad time. Even after playing for a few hours I still didn't get entirely 
 used to the controls.
  
  So... you think this is a free-roaming game? Yes and no. I don't know how many people have said 
 this by now, but the game is pretty linear. Move from here to there and under certain circumstances, 
 kill this person or get this item. While the game is pretty straightforward, you're allowed to 
 backtrack to previous locations for both the fun of it and because you'll sometimes need to. And 
 even if you need to, you won't need to backtrack that far anyways. Despite how straightforward 
 it is, there are plenty of extra areas to explore but otherwise that's pretty much it. The world 
 looks great and big, but somehow you'll be left envying a much bigger play area.
  
  One thing that definitely makes Bioshock unique is the Big Daddy encounters. You know, the parts 
 where you kill those big dudes with possessed little girls following them. Yeah, they're big walking 
 hunks of badass, but after dealing with a few of them it's not that bad. There are only two types 
 of Big Daddies in the game so you'll be in for some repetitive battles. The only real difference 
 between the later ones is that they'll be a bit harder and the environment which you are fighting 
 on will be different. Taking them on is actually optional as they're not hostile to you (yet) , 
 but chances are you will. And if you manage to defeat them, you can either save the Little Sister 
 (the little girls) or you can kill her. Those choices affect the ending and also net you ADAM, 
 something you can use to purchase upgrades and new plasmids. The Big Daddy and Little Sister concept 
 works well, but remains so simple it's bad. Kill the Big Daddy and then make a decision on how 
 to deal with the Little Sister. Every. Single. Time. And even if you do choose the choice that 
 gets you more ADAM, I found crap that I didn't even want to purchase with the ADAM. For what was 
 supposedly a big part of the game, it still felt like it wasn't enough.
  
  Yet again, I can't help but say Bioshock's greatest strength lies in its atmosphere. And backing 
 that up would be the gorgeous graphics engine. And I'd like to tell you that even if you're not 
 running the game with the strongest graphics card out there, it still looks unbelievably great. 
 There's also great voicework and memorable voices that again, go with the setting.
  
  The real only problem I have with Bioshock is that I really looked forward to more intense and 
 satisfying action along with maybe... a bit more immersion. The shooting really wasn't as satisfying 
 and the guns may not feel as great. Plasmids were unique but still felt a bit lacking. Aside from 
 that, the gameplay is also a bit easy since dying in the game isn't even that bad. You don't go 
 back to a checkpoint but rather respawn at a certain area, ready to charge at the enemy again. 
 So you could just die and come back and keep doing more damage until you finally kill them. And 
 when you finally reach the end, the endings you can get aren't very satisfying. Once you finish 
 it, there's really not much of a reason to dive back in. Sure, you can try to get the other endings 
 but it'll wind up being too much more of the same with changing maybe a few simple Little Sister 
 decisions.
  
  Bioshock for me was a great experience despite a few shortcomings. I wasn't blessed with a game 
 with the most outstanding action, but the great feeling of just being in Rapture was my favorite 
 thing about the game. All I could really ask for would be a more satisfying feel to killing your 
 enemies and perhaps a bigger, more immersive world even though it's as big as it is already. It 
 exceeded creating a world by a longshot. Though if the action felt better and more epic, then I 
 probably wouldn't ask too much more for a better game. You should definitely give Bioshock a try, 
 but there's really not too much to be really excited about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volvaga0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  To start off this game was highly anticipated and in my opinion, has lived up to the hype it had 
 received. It is very fun to play and has that maybe ill play for another hour appeal. From the 
 very beginning of the game where you first crash into the Atlantic Sea you are pulled into the 
 under-sea world of Rapture! The messed up society that was once thriving with activity. Rapture 
 was built by a guy called Andrew Ryan, his idea for rapture was to keep all the superior mind under 
 the sea and create a super community with all the greatest minds off the time all under one roof 
 (so to speak) . The game is set in the 60s and has a very art deco style to the environment. The 
 weapons are also in the time-zone, you still have your basic weapons but in different styles. You 
 have your pistol (standard) , machine gun (not very accurate, although they werent that accurate 
 at those time anyway) , sniper rifle (this comes in the form of a very powerful crossbow) and your 
 standard shotgun. Each of these comes with 3 different types of ammo (standard, anti-personnel, 
 exploding) , you can also melee your foes using a wrench. All of this is attention to detail to 
 further immerse the player into thinking they actually are in that current time-zone. While playing 
 through the game you really do get the impression that rapture was a fully functional society that 
 was fully living and breathing. To add to this youll find audio logs left behind by occupants 
 of rapture leaving behind vital information or story points to guide you and give the impression. 
 As rapture is full of the brightest minds, naturally they found out how to splice there genes to 
 genetically change there appearances and powers. Throughout the game you will pick up and find 
 gene-tonics (automatically alter your DNA) and the powers. These are called Plasmids. these will 
 genetically change your DNA to allow you to do supernatural things like shoot electricity, fire 
 or even bees out of your left hand (left hand for powers, right for weapons) . Along with you, 
 there are many opponents against you. The former residents of rapture. They are just like you in 
 the way that they have spliced there genes and have been genetically modified. Naturally they are 
 called splicers. they are all after one thing, and this is called ADAM. If you die in the process 
 of fighting a splicer, you are brought back to life in a nearby Vita-chamber. Because of this 
 the result of death goes un-punished. And to add to this any damage that was dealt to your foes 
 is carried on. You will respawn will all you ammo (at the point of death) and most of your health 
 and EVE (the substance that enables you to use your genetic powers) this makes the game carry on 
 its speed but also makes the game very easy. ADAM is almost like the currency of rapture (although 
 there are American dollars used for the shops and various vending machines that stock weapon ammo 
 or supplies) . The main source of ADAM is from the little sisters, these lil sisters gather the 
 ADAM and stock it. ADAM is used to upgrade your genes and DNA, by collecting the ADAM you can then 
 use them at vendors called gatherers gardens. these upgrades will include such things as new 
 tonics and new Plasmids to trick your character out to be a genetic god. But just simply finding 
 the little sisters and harvesting the ADAM out of them, is not the case. They are guarded by 
 huge behemoths called big daddies dressed in diving suites. There are two types of big daddies, 
 the first is called a Bouncer. these giants carry around a massive gun/grenade launcher. The 
 second is called a Rosie. this is the first type of big daddy you will ever see in the game. 
 These are the guys that carry an enormous drill and rush at you very fast (youll be surprised 
 when you face them how fast they will move considering they are wearing huge metal diving suits, 
 I know I was when I first saw one!) these guys focus on the melee side of combat and let the Bouncers 
 focus on range fighting. Once these guys are eventually dead you can then deal with the little 
 sisters, as you cannot harm them until you do (they have a symbiotic worm inside of them that 
 alters there hosts stem cells that can instantly regenerate and strengthen damaged cells) . Once 
 killing the protectors you have 2 choices, 1 is to harvest the little sister. This will yank the 
 sea slug out of the host and ultimately kill them. And 2 is to rescue them, you receive a plasmid 
 to kill the slug internally and save the sisters. This will result in you receiving less ADAM, 
 but in the long run will grant you a greater amount than if you just harvest them. Of course there 
 are plot points to consider, if you save or harvest the sisters you will receive different endings 
 depending on what youve done to them. This can add the extra replay value for players that want 
 to see both endings (there are actually 3 endings but one of them just has a different narration) . 
 The graphics in the game are highly immersive and adds the feeling that you actually are under 
 the sea, the water effects are top notch and the best if seen. The way the waters dribbles down 
 the walls and down the steps of wet cold paving. Even the static puddles that drips from the ceiling 
 are highly detailed and is a main focus in the game. Not only does water play a vital role in BioShock, 
 shadows are also very important to scare and give visual clues of their surroundings. Enemy AI 
 is OK but IMO could be better. Once an enemy is on fire it will find some water and jump in it 
 to put themselves out. Also when they are low on health they will try and run to the nearest 
 health station to heal themselves before you gun them down. To summarize this game is hard, its 
 is very complex and has a vast background that isnt told to the player very well and could of 
 have been done better. Maybe this will lead on to be BIOSHOCK2? If you havent played BioShock 
 and have the opportunity too, I think you should. its a fantastic game and gets a HUGE thumbs 
 up from me! This is in no way overrated and lives up to the expectations! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crawling-Chaos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  This is gonna be short and sweet. First off:
  Bioshock excellent game. Excellent visuals, though the water effects are not as spectacular and 
 unique as the hype claimed. The game mechanics also excellent. The downside, if there is a downside, 
 is that this is still System Shock 2 in a new fancy dress. Bar the new visuals and story the game 
 is identical in its feel, pacing and gaming mechanics. Now while that is a little dissapointing 
 in that I was looking for a different experience, for Irational to take the SS2 formula and rehash 
 it still makes for a great game, as was (and still is) System Shock 2 (which I am currently playing 
 again in co-op mode) . For those who don't know/never played SS2 then the experience will be new 
 and that bit more rewarding, and if you are one of those people go out and find a copy of SS2 now!
 
  
  Now, when are you guys at Irrational gonna make SS3? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VALDESVENOM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  It's one of the best shooters i've ever played. It has so interestin gameplay that will grab you 
 from the first mniute to the end of the game. The ghraphics are very cool, but it doesnt have multiplayer-this 
 is one of the major problems. Imagine-multiplayer in the city of Rapture. Well, this is my opinion, i 
 hope you will like it. Decide by yourself. We will see when Crysis comes on sale. Until then, play 
 Bioshock not all day, but all day and all night. Did i did it? That's how Bulgarian does it. For me, the 
 best combination will be with Crysis and Bioshock. The result will maybe be CrysisShock. It will 
 probably going to be the best shooter that is ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raptole
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  The game is very good and I like it! It is a liitle realistic. I don't like that when I shoot the 
 window it isn't break! The game is universal! I like it very much! The graphic isn't very bad. I like 
 it! The game is in my TOP 5 list. It is on 4th place! Before Lost Planet: Extreme Conditoin and after 
 Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2! The only thing I like very, very much is when I should execute 
 the little girl and when I have a lot of plasma after that! And the other one is when I should HACK 
 a safe or the automat for the cips and ammo! That's my favorite things in this game! If there will 
 be BioShock 2 I will play it, and I will be very happy if it's moething like the first one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Applerod
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is outstanding. Different people approach video games differently. Some focus first and 
 foremost on the story or plot line which establishes a context for the action, and are less concerned 
 with things like the quality of the graphics. I myself approach games first in terms of their sensory 
 impact. I'm never trying to find the fastest way to win the game. Usually I'm less interested in 
 the story -- particularly if it's relayed in jerky cut scenes or poor voice work as so many games 
 are. With Bioshock I've experienced the rare pleasure of awesome graphics and sound combined with 
 an intriguing, reasonably convincing story line.
  
  The first thing you're struck by in playing the game is the distinctive, though not totally unfamiliar 
 visual style. The action takes place in 1960 in a vast underwater metropolis which feels like one 
 of Howard Hughes' wet dreams. You find yourself in a murky, deteriorating art deco kind of atmosphere 
 -- exquisitely rendered in the best indoor graphic design I've ever experienced. Sometimes you 
 have to slow down and just take in the environment, stark as it is. The details of the plot reveal 
 themselves in well-voiced radio transmissions, leftover recordings documenting experiments gone 
 predictably awry, and elements of the environment such as posters advertising the harmless wonders 
 of gene splicing. It doesn't take too long before you're introduced to the creative element of 
 the gameplay: plasmids , which are essentially self-administered genetic enhancements which give 
 you extraordinary powers such as telekinesis or the ability to immolate your enemies. You also 
 have access to standard weapons, so live combat becomes a matter of administering damage to make 
 most efficient use of your reservoir of ammunition, be it conventional or genetic. The combat is 
 neither revolutionary nor action-packed, but this isn't a tactical combat kind of game.
  
  I've played the game for less than 10 hours but I can say this is one of the best games in the 
 loosening first-person shooter genre of all time. The graphics fulfill the potential of next-generation 
 gaming and help draw you in to an interesting story. The separation between you and your character 
 becomes less distinct as you play the game; you may even get a bit jumpy about who or what is lurking 
 in the shadows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: activematx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  First off this game is one of the very RARE and few games that come out for the PC that does not 
 require any patching in my opinion. Write off of the DVD the game plays bug-free. No lagging, no 
 freezes, no crashes, and for a PC game that is awesome!
  
  The graphics are smooth, and the game is just beautiful. Sure you can tell from the Screen-shots 
 that the game is beautiful, but what you can't really tell from the screenshots is how well the 
 art-direction is. It's just so immserive.
  
  What I didn't know about the game, before I played it is how not-serious the game is.... what i 
 mean by this, is that it sorta reminds me of a over-the-top cartoon sorta gameplay to it. The enemys 
 scream and run around on fire, and try to jump into the water to cool themselves down. The auto-bots 
 that fly around and shoot you are so cartoon like. Its funny, and at the same time, a fun tactical 
 shooter.
  
  The controls are simple and intuitive to use, sorta like the iphone. (LOL) . I mean, there is a 
 shoot button, a crouch, a jump and thats about it. I hate FPS games that have lean-left, lean right, 
 action, etc, it just makes too much buttons that makes the learning curve too steep. With this 
 game your going right away, and having fun too!
  
  So much people said the game is too easy, and I dis-agree. I mean, its not hard, but it is fun! 
 And to me that is what matters most. Instead of having a hard time to just get through the game, 
 you go through the game at your own pace, and have fun. Because your having so much fun, you can 
 be creative and kill your enemeis in so much different ways.
  
  For instance, I like to attach mines to dead bodies, and then through them at those huge big daddies 
 . That takes them down good. Or I like to ZAP enemys, and then bust out my wrench or pistol and 
 BOOM HEADSHOT them.
  
  Bio Shock came out of nowhere for me, and its a fun fun game. Graphics are pretty (lots of specular 
 lighting, and particles, and flares) . And well, the shooting part is fun too. My only con is that 
 I hate the machine gun. it scatters too much, and I wish they traded that for a assault rifle. 
 A slow firing assault rifle, with a nice accuracy. However, im only 1/4 done with the game, so 
 i have so more weapons to explore.
  
  If you like this review, please reccomend it to other people, and also read my other reviews. Thanks, 
 and enjoy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woges
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2009 11:08 am PT
Review:  There have been plenty of reviews of this game around the web and it's now joint top critics favoite 
 according to Metacritic:
  
  http://www. metacritic. com/games/pc/scores/
  
  That's quite an achievement. Bioshock is up there with HL2 and it certainly borrows from it. However, 
 it adds some Jules Verne retro-future styling, some film sequences (The Shining ghost sequences) , 
 and a moral choice (farming the "Little Sisters") to the HL2 formula. The game has similar themes 
 to the film Blade Runner; the questionable moral outlook of the Hero, philosophy & religion, science, 
 it's examining humanity. This makes for a pretty interesting game by todays standards. Add to this 
 Plasmids (genetic skills) and Tonics (passive skills) , scavaging (for ammo, health packs, etc) , 
 vending machines, hacking, you start to get the picture of what Bioshock is. All this is given 
 to you in such an easy to use and defined manner it's easy to overlook all the work put into this 
 game. It's a fairly linear experience with very little RPG elements, so don't go in expecting lengthy 
 dialogue trees, in fact, you have no options to choose any dialogue in the game. The graphics are 
 good (the UT3 engine is looking impressive here) . The score, provided by Garry Schyman, is perfect 
 for this game and setting, as is the voice acting.
  
  There are some criticisms. Too short being one - with all that's going on and all the Plasmids 
 you start to accumulate it all seems to end before you can really put all these abilities to use. 
 Some sound issues; sound seems to stutter in Vista - some people report no sound at all. Shooting 
 is a little clunky. No multi-player aspect. The re-spawn points make the game too easy. There is 
 little use of the environment as mentioned in some of the teaser videos; trap like rooms that would 
 present some form of challenge, and the city doesn't capture the open and realistic world mirage 
 as well as it could; the game feels like you're progressing level by level rather than through 
 a simulated underwater city. Regardless, the game is of an artistic level rarely seen in gaming 
 and quite an experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jschenk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is really a beautiful example of a complete game with a well thought out story. The music, 
 voice, and art are all in balance and are... done well! It's been a long time since I've seen a 
 game that actually spends a decent amount of money on voice acting. Just like a good movie, 2K 
 really stepped up to create an immersive environment. The tone of this game is reminiscent of Fallout. 
 The game is as fun to watch and admire as it is to play. Fighting enemies sometimes almost feels 
 like an interruption to the game. I guess that's a negative. I sometimes wish there where no enemies, 
 and that this was an adventure game. Either that, or I wish mobs didn't respawn, so I could go 
 back and look at the rooms I was too busy to admire while I was killing and running around. I find 
 the game can get very difficult on the medium settings, especially with the bosses. The bosses 
 are sure to deplete your resources, especially if you don't get creative. There are so many different 
 combinations of skills and tactics you can take, that there is a lot of strategy around taking 
 down a boss. From the opening sequence, there are dozens of Oh wow moments in this game. Creepy, 
 gory, and dark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaeryn
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  It's the world of Rapture underwater that is pulling me into this game. From when I first saw it 
 through the Bathysphere, I was amazed. It looked like an amazing place, but that changed fast.
 
  
  The storyline is great, REALLY great. That is one thing this game does amazing too. Graphics are 
 pretty damn nice too, some anti aliasing would be nice, though. Jaggies aren't too pretty to look 
 at.
  
  The gameplay is another thing that makes me go wow. The plasmids and combat itself is brilliant. 
 The splicers sure have scared the hell out of me a few times, REALLY bad. Overall, it's a great 
 game. While it doesn't have multi-player, or much replay value unless you want to beat it twice, 
 or more (why wouldn't you?) , it's an amazing 20 hours of your life you will feel were used in a 
 great way.
  
  Get bioshock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magusat999
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I played Bioshock almost non-stop, only breaking to eat, sleep and go to work. The story was compelling, 
 and had a good - yet predictable twist, but after finishing the game I felt that there was something 
 missing. The graphics were good, the music was appropriate (but irritating after a while) , and 
 it performed very well except for a few stutters. I played the PC version, and in contrast to the 
 widespread performance issues mentioned in the Official review - I almost had no issues at all.
 
  
  What I did have issues with was for one, the lack of enemy variety. Unlike System Shock, which 
 this supposedly is the sequel to, the enemies stayed the same pretty much throughout. If you want 
 to say that there was a boss in the game, or something that can be construed as a boss fight - 
 then that would be ONE... only one boss monster in the entire game! After a while, the monotony 
 of sameness began to creep in, and it was apparent that even at a hefty 7+gig installation there 
 was no consideration for NPC / Enemy variety. It is reminiscent of the old 16bit console games, 
 where the same enemies were palette swapped due to storage constraints. Only problem is... there 
 aren't any storage constraints for a game clocking in as heavy as two DVD...
  
  The enemy AI was interesting. The enemies weren't smart enough to know where you were automatically, 
 which is a realistic thing. It took them a second to notice you - and even then you could escape 
 them by running away. Their attack patterns became a real bore after you realized that they weren't 
 going to change. some of them attack right through the strongest stun (like Electro 3) , which felt 
 a little cheating of the game if you ask me. I think the world could have been more populated (with 
 enemies) and a little more dangerous. There were areas totally void of characters, and some with 
 just a few lingering around. I would have traded more action and bloodshed (of course compensated 
 by easier killing) for the boredom of being nothing for long periods of time.
  
  Unlike System Shock, where you gained more powers and faced new and more enemies as the game progressed 
 (God I hated those stupid monkeys!) there seemed to be no way to acquire all the power-ups in the 
 game, and the enemy line up remained the same. The Big Daddy is supposed to be the ultimate enemy 
 - but they weren't even much of a challenge. All you do is find a place where they can't enter, 
 or restrict their shots (like a crawlspace, or an area you have to jump to get into...) and start 
 blasting away at them... goodnight, Gracie. I read in a preview that the developer wanted people 
 to finish the game, that's why it was made the way it is. But I didn't know that they made it so 
 controlling that there is no reward for exploring. I was tempted to go back to earlier levels a 
 few times... but for what? Would I be saving more little sisters and maxing out my upgrades? No, 
 the game isn't made like that. Is there a secret that would help me do... whatever? Not that I 
 know of. The game practically forces you to the end by providing no reward whatsoever for doing 
 something most players wouldn't do. And then it dumps you off in a most unsatisfying way... your 
 last save? Well - it isn't AFTER the credits, I'll tell you that. Suffice it to say, the last save 
 is in a place that will make you want to throw the game out of the window... No replay value whatsoever; 
 just push, push push to the end... and that's it. You'll see.
  
  The city in the game Rapture was built in a 1940s style - but it was clear that this couldn't actually 
 be 1940 because... well, the city could have never been built in the first place. Secondly, the 
 technology was too advanced for 1940. So why stick us so hard with the 1940's ambiance ? It should 
 have been 1940s on the outside, and some time in the future on the inside. It's like some fanatical 
 historian got a hold of the game and made damn sur eit was period throughout. I think it should 
 have advanced to more recent times, at least - or even something totally alien. that's what you 
 get when you hire consultants - no imagination, boredom, and stiff-necked tunnel-vision... They 
 didn't wear that in the '40s... they wore this.. - give me a break. It looked good - but that's 
 about it; and where was the interaction at? There were only a few specific items you could interact 
 with - and opposite of some of the hype, not very much destructible items at all. The environment 
 was very static, and offered almost no alternatives to the right path .
  
  Player movement is very linear as well - unlike System Shock, where you could do amazing feats 
 depending on your upgrades. No matter what you upgraded , you couldn't jump higher; you definitely 
 couldn't fly; you didn't run any faster; you couldn't see farther, in the dark, etc.; you couldn't 
 endure harsh conditions any better; you couldn't operate machinery; you couldn't drive vehicles, 
 or guide missiles... just the basic stuff. Game mechanics ran smoothly - but were anorexic compared 
 to System Shock. Gun / Plasmid selection was kind of stupid also. The game would not let you configure 
 the keys for either one - not so much an issue with the guns - but a big problem when it came to 
 the plasmids (think magic powers ) . You'd like to know where everything is so your not shuffling 
 through it when it needs to be changed - but it was a little difficult with the plasmids, without 
 customization.
  
  The hacking puzzles - another monotony of the game - were from too easy to ridiculously unsolvable. 
 The dumb thing about this was that I was getting unsolvable puzzles before I started seeing the 
 hack tool! this means that there were some hacks that were impossible for me to solve. On it's 
 hardest mode, these puzzles are set up sothat it's over on the first square - you have to move 
 extremely quick not to get a failure / short-circuit / or alarm. But by the time you start seeing 
 the hack tool, you'll have already abandoned some hacks. And speaking of puzzles - besides the 
 hacks... where were they? Not much to see here sonny - move along.
  
  All in all, it was alright as a run of the mill game - but it just didnt deliver the same standards 
 raised by System Shock II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainmakerrng
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 6, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  There is a story; a mystery that revolves around a city under the ocean, a utopia that some time 
 in the 60s went horribly wrong. Upon entering, you're thrust into a nightmare (Hell) , your only 
 way out (or in) is to get to the root of the problem. You are presented with a few path along the 
 way and lots of weapons and plasmids (magic spells) to help you see through to the end.
  
  Bioshock is presented through some amazing graphics, and the story is told mostly through voice 
 dairies that you'll find along the way. The concept is wonderful; however, the actual gameplay 
 is under the water. There are lots of spells/weapons to keep any RPG/FPS gamer entertainment for 
 a bit, but the overall gameplay experience you'll find is repetitive, and boring after a few hours. 
 You'll have seemed all that there is to the game, what's left is just plain plasmid hunting, senseless 
 killing and perhaps (like me) driven by the story. With so much gore, everything is a bloody mess; 
 it feels a lot like playing Doom 3 all over again.
  
  With so many plasmids/weapons to use, and security hacking to do itll keep you happy for a while, 
 but this game is OVERRATED. If you've played the demo, you have played the whole game, what you 
 will have missed is the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antality
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  The story is awesome, fun to follow along, very unique, fun to think about. The environment is 
 eye candy land, everything looks shiny or wet, or old and battered. Don't recognize the same walls 
 twice. The weapons are great, basic but fun because you can mod them and find better ammo for them. 
 The plasmid, tonic, genetic editing system is totally awesome and usually the weapon of choice. 
 I am playing on hard and it's pretty difficult, but the fact that you have no limited number of 
 lives, makes it pretty easy, but still takes time to get past certain concentrated baddie spots. 
 The water everywhere helps push the story, and jacks up the game's rating as I see it. Also, the 
 water aids in killing those demon baddies, which is useful many times. This game has a very old 
 and grimy feel to it, I love it. The music is awesome, and the dialog is pretty good, but sometimes 
 repeats, as in any game. I would say my biggest peeve in this excellent game is the enemies inability 
 to hide, and lurk quietly, of course, I don't think this was the game makers plan, but it seems 
 like it would be more effective than them constantly chasing you and screaming. But there are plenty 
 of quiet dark, light flickering, wet, bloody alleys and tunnels that you expect some creature to 
 jump out any minute.. And they usually do. Also the enemy variety is small, and it makes you usually 
 resort to beating certain parts faster than usual, to see what is next. The hacking of bots, safes, 
 boxes, whatever else is cool too, it seems like there are lots and lots of first aids and hypos 
 to go around, but you use them faster than you know. This game is worth the money, pretty addicting, 
 if you like unique, well written, dirty, 50's era games. Or just a plain fun shooter, with nasty 
 twists and lots of blood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anubis311
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This game was touted to be a revolutionary shooter, the spiritual successor to system shock. Honestly 
 I got bored after playing for about 5-6 hours. It just is not fun. The weapons feel clunky and 
 useless. The hacking is a uninteresting clone of the old pipe dream game. The magic powers are 
 interesting, I guess, if you like shooting lightning and fireballs, but I don't care for it -- read 
 on.
  
  System shock offered many different solutions to get thru obstacles and reach objectives. BioShock 
 fails here -- every problem you need to get thru has ONE solution to pass it. Unlike system shock, 
 you have only one choice on how to get to each objective. Another place this game falls short is 
 on the customization. Yes, you can customize your character to specialize in certain areas, but 
 none of them make or break your ability to perform certain actions. It makes the character development 
 seem like a waste.
  
  Story? I really didn't have much of an idea what I was supposed to be doing most of the time. I 
 guess I'm just an idiot because I always ended up having to ask for a hint or wait for the arrow 
 to just tell me where to go. That being said, I was never very excited to see what was going to 
 happen next, and the 5-10 minute loading times were the final nail in the coffin to make me just 
 give up on progressing any further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guylapierre
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  The story is the best part. It is almost up there with Half Life but not quite. The game play is 
 very good but can be repetitive at times. I found it hard to play straight through because of this. 
 I had to take frequent breaks because the repetitiveness of the game got to me.
  
  The graphics are very well done but I did experience some glitches. Nothing that impeded game play 
 but it did throw me for a loop a few times.
  
  I'm strictly a shooter player and I did welcome the alternative weapons that are somewhat RPGish. 
 It mixed it up a little without taking away from the traditional shooter experience.
  
  All in all the pros far outweigh the cons and I would highly recommend this game... if nothing else 
 but for the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mb423752
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  The graphics for this game are good but nothing outstanding it looked maybe a little better than 
 prey but it was nothing special. It was nothing like what i expected with all the hype about it. 
 The game isn't bad don't get me wrong I enjoyed it very much but its not any better than most of 
 the other FPS. In fact I hated the fact that the enemys were always the same throughout the game. 
 People who say this is better thsn Gears of War are completely wrong. I like bosses with a challenge 
 there is no real boss until the end of this game and even then its not really anything specific 
 you have to do to kill him. The story sucked pretty much I thought. I couldn't half hear it though 
 cause most of the time when someone was talking to me i was busy blasting someone. This game is 
 way to easy it reminds me of prey where you die but not really. Put it this way there is no need 
 for a god mode lol. Although infinite ammo would be nice i found myself running out and useing 
 the wrench alot. The thing i dislike the most about the game is hacking. It is basically pipe dream 
 the boring game thats been out forever. i don't see why they couldn't make something better than 
 that for the hack. Overall its fun to play and you should try it but stick to the demo or download 
 it off the internet lol! Don't pay for it like i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matias1_G
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Alright, the first thing you may notice when you begin Bioshock is that if you are using DX9 you 
 won't have any Anti-Aliasing. You may think, dang man that really sucks, but there is always a 
 way around these kinds of things. Go and download nHancer, then customize the Bioshock settings 
 and force Anti-Aliasing, you may need to use the Rainbow Six compatibility mode. Once that is done 
 the game looks better and you will be able to play it without the distraction of rough edges, at 
 least not too many.
  
  Now, the story is pretty well put together despite what most FPSs these days crank out. It is fun 
 to explore the story and gathering recorded tapes does bring back a sense of System Shock 2 nostalgia. 
 Despite the fact that certain goals are needed to further the story, you are not required to do 
 them immediately and can roam freely around the world of Rapture and discover hidden secrets and 
 earn some money. This non-linear game-play really gives you the impression that you have the freedom 
 to do whatever you wish to do.
  
  One thing that may surprise you is that you find out there are only a limited amount of Little 
 Sisters in each area. So once you have saved or harvested them all (go to the main menu and look 
 near the bottom of the screen to see how many there are and how many you have already gotten) , 
 you cannot get any more Adam until you reach a new area by advancing the story. So when you do 
 get that precious Adam, spend it wisely.
  
  The Dynamic AIs really are fun to interact with, although they are not as Incredible as all the 
 media would suggest, they are witty. For example, sometimes the enemy will engage in guerrilla 
 warfare by attacking and retreating, and sometimes they will go for the kill and run towards you 
 full speed. If possible they will sneak up behind you so listen for any unusual noises. You can 
 find Big Daddy's wandering around and they won't pay you any attention unless you get too close 
 and they will push you away, as long as you don't attack them. If they are protecting a Little 
 Sister beware, any kinds of aggression toward the girls will make you a target.
  
  The battles are not spectacular, but they do provide alot of excitement, for instance, you can 
 hack security bots to fight for you and trick Big Daddy's into protecting you. The hacking is entertaining 
 because it brings back memories of playing WOWSpill. Inventing is not what would be expected, you 
 do nothing more than select what you wish to create from a list given the parts you have (you cannot 
 experiment with putting things together, it does that for you) . The Weapon upgrades are also just 
 as withdrawn, you choose your upgrade from a list and it gets done for you.
  
  The Challenge in this game can vary, if you want it to be easy, it will be, if you want to make 
 it hard on yourself, go right ahead. That is what makes this game so variable, it has a lot of 
 customization that you can make the game as complex or simple as you like and still enjoy it. So 
 although the game mechanisms are not new and not revolutionary, it's the combination that makes 
 it all worthwhile. So if you like to fight with allies or alone, if you want a challenge or not, 
 if you want to explore the story or not, this game gives YOU the choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erodaland
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  What a boring game! I don't want to play anymore game like this one. I'm sure Crysis, Far Cry 2 
 and Half-life 2-Epidose 2, will be a lot more better than this piece of CRA.......! I'm a big fan 
 of first person shooter, i was so excited about his new game, but u didn't had fun at all with 
 those monsters! Its just a normal game, why gamespot gave them a EDITOR CHOICE?? The graphic is 
 average low (6/10) , the sound is good (7.2/10) Gameplay (5.5/10) and Value (3/10) : ( If you wanna 
 lose money, go ahead and waste $50 or play the demo first to see what i am talking about! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edziscs
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  For a game hyped like bioshock, I really was a bit disappointed. Don't get me wrong, the game is 
 just plain awesome, but it's just not that awesome. So, let's start: Graphics: The two things I 
 actually didn't like about the graphics were the 2d water splashes and that enemies don't get deformed 
 after stabs. Sounds stupid, huh? But there aren't any other problems (if you can call them problems) , 
 with the graphics atleast. Gameplay: This is an almost perfect thing, if not for the vita-chambers. 
 The vita-chambers is a place where you'll end up after you're dead. No, it's not heaven, more like 
 back to hell, thats right you can't die and thats the only reason I gave the game Very Easy difficulty. 
 So much for the vita-chamber, everything else is great - The enemies won't be running at you from 
 everywhere, instead they'll just scavenge random corpses and since you look like a tasty bit of 
 money and adam (currency to buy plasmids and other body and will improvements with) , they'll attack 
 you on sight. -The plasmids, a funny thing they are - fry your enemies, freeze 'em and smash 'em, 
 electrify them or just enrage them and let them beat up each other, if you're too lazy. -The weapons 
 are just your regular next door wrench, revolver, machine gun, shotgun, crossbow, grenade launcher 
 and the good ol' chemical thrower. Storyline: Now this was the biggest down for me, it is good 
 but it's short. And the ending is even more horrible, its like they would just say the end . You're 
 going to get a few twists (two or three) . Don't want to spoil anything anymore so thats it for 
 the story. Value: There are just so few enemy types for a game this big. Big dadies, splicers, 
 little sisters, spider splicers, turrets, security bots. What do you know, I named them all. The 
 cool thing is you can use the environment as your advance, just improvise.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alovia
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Never seen annoying bugs or crashes.
  Its been such a long time since we saw a great game like this one.
  Its all great the sound effects, music, gfx, physics 
 and story so dont care about the freakin whiners. They will always sit and cry for something.
  The worst thing about game is the hacking pipes. But youll get over it.
  Buy it , play it.
  
 La la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la
  La la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undead789
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  Beyond amazing. That is the only way to accurately describe Bioshock. The graphics are top of the 
 line and DirectX 10 makes it that much better from its 360 counterpart. Game play is amazing as 
 it is extremely open ended with the ability to hack flying turrets to aid in your killings. The 
 enemies are never too difficult, except for the big daddies, who can wipe you out with a single 
 hit. The weapons choices are very diverse from a wrench to a chemical thrower. Not only that, but 
 most weapons have more than one kind of ammo, to best suit your killing needs. Almost all electronics 
 can be hacked which can provide you with cheaper ammo, health packs, and Eve. Ground turrets and 
 security cameras can also be hacked to provide cover for you, as the enemy seems to like to sneak 
 up on you. And who can forget the vast array of plasmids, from shooting fire, to releasing a swarm 
 of bees, almost anything can be done here. In all truthfulness, if you have the money for this 
 game and an awesome computer, then this is a MUST HAVE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KynKoolij
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  The first few minutes of Bioshock make up what is possibly my favorite introduction to a game, 
 ever. Though the game's viewpoint suggests you are playing a first-person shooter, it never really 
 feels that way. It feels like truly taking on the role of a character that is put in a seemingly 
 impossible situation, and fighting his way towards understanding the mysterious underwater city 
 of Rapture, and finding out how and why everything went wrong. Everything about Rapture just seems 
 off... there is a sense that even before it all went to hell, everything was tainted by an underlying 
 sense of wrongness. It's the unnatural aspect of the environment. An entire city on the bottom 
 of the ocean, built only for the purpose of separation from the rest of the world. An elitist society 
 founded by a brilliant but obviously disturbed individual, whose intentions although morally sound 
 on the surface still go against the natural order. Andrew Ryan's city of Rapture is the ultimate 
 example of what happens to man when left to his own devices, without a system of balances.
  
  The game makes you question the very nature of the fighting itself. As I'm unloading a clip 
 from my Tommy gun into a crazed splicer, after setting him on fire with the plasmid incinerate, 
 and he's screaming bizarre commands as if he believes he is still a doctor and I'm a patient, I 
 think about how this used to be a human being trained to save lives. After years of medical school 
 and working in hospitals on the surface, after coming to the city of Rapture hoping for a better 
 life and a better future for him and his possible family, he is now a monster being annihilated 
 by rounds from my machine gun. As I'm watching in awe the violent, unpredictable situations unfolding 
 before me, sometimes so violent and chaotic it's comical, something registers close to a pang of 
 guilt. It's them or me of course, and 99% of the time all video games boil down to killing or destroying 
 things, so it's nothing new... But it's all really the opposite of what the people of Rapture wanted 
 when they came to what they believed to be a Utopia. The player is made to feel a sense that with 
 or without their presence there is a persistent world around them. The Little Sisters wander the 
 corridors harvesting the Adam under the protection of the Big Daddys, and the Splicers scavenge 
 for whatever they can find like mutated junkees, sometimes even fighting each other. The city is 
 imploding both as a society and structurally, and the player is only there to witness it. Although 
 not by coincidence, of course...
  
  The visuals have a lot to do with why the game never really feels like a shooter. It's a setting 
 that really puts the player into an alternate version of 1960. The player wants to see all there 
 is to see, even if the walls are spattered with blood and there are signs everywhere of what kind 
 of evil and cruelty man is capable of. The combat is almost secondary to the experience. Bioshock 
 has one of the best audio experiences I have ever heard. Every little action and aspect of the 
 environment has it's own sound. Although a lot of lines are repeated by the enemies it still gives 
 them a sense of character and individuality. The Little Sisters and the Big Daddys are especially 
 memorable for their look and sound. Even after playing through the game once and getting used to 
 being revived in the Vitachambers I still want to cringe whenever being charged full force by a 
 Big Daddy. The experience of rescuing a Little Sister is rewarding even on an emotional level, 
 like putting a sense of right and order back into the madness. The sound of their footsteps as 
 they run to safety is unforgettable. From my experience the fighting and gameplay are all about 
 doing whatever works at the time, or whatever you feel like. The player is never forced into one 
 course of action for defeating enemies or getting past obstacles. It's a lot of the reason why 
 the game world feels so real and persistent. My first playthrough I found myself relying on my 
 guns and obsessing over which plasmids and tonics to equip. But the second time around it has been 
 even more entertaining to just create complete chaos whenever possible and have fun with all the 
 abilities and combat situations. I believe it is true when the creators stated that playing Bioshock 
 will never quite be the same experience every time for every person, and that deserves a lot of 
 respect. Bioshock has story and characters. It is visually impressive, especially from an artistic 
 standpoint. It has extremely high quality sound effects and dialogue. It has ultraviolence, with 
 situations occurring that will both make you stare at the screen and laugh out loud. It's not a 
 short game, if you take the time to explore a little. What else could anyone want? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allex007
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  Irrational Games (recently renamed 2K Boston/2K Australia) known for great titles like System Shock, Tribes 
 Vengeance and Swat 4 has brought it's new title Bioshock in it's full splendor. The game tells you 
 the story of a man named Jack who's plane crashed in the middle of the ocean. He being the only 
 survivor he enters a lighthouse where he takes a bathesphere to an underwater city named Rapture. This 
 giant metropolis built by the excentric Andrew Ryan is populated by these hostel peoples caled 
 Splicers, and these splicers are looking for a substance named ADAM that you can use to upgrade 
 there plasmid abilites. The games core mechanics are these kinda psy powers named plasmids that 
 can make you shot electricity throw your arm, incinerate objects or persons by snaping your fingers, shoot 
 bees out of your arm and many other crazy powers that you can use to survive Rapture's dangerous 
 streets. Besides the plasmids you also have weapons like a pistol, a machinegun, shotgun, grenade launcher 
 and other that you can upgrade at certain vendors. You can increase the firepower, the rate of fire, increase 
 the magazine or other things. The weapons have also 3 types of ammunition that you can use in different 
 situations for example aromor piercing rounds take down robot sentries more effectively than normal 
 bullets. The games atmosphere is really amazing altought the games graphics ruins the games horror 
 effect.
  One other thing is that the game is kinda easy. That is isn't necesarily a bad things. For casual 
 gamers it's the perfect game.
  Overall Bioshock's amazing amtposhere and mixed gameplay makes it a great purchase and one that 
 you will not disappoint!
  
  The Good
  +amazing atmosphere+compeling story+great voice work and sound+you will play it at least twice+
 
  
  The Bad
  -a little on the easy side- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alensolman
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2007 1:03 am PT
Review:  I hawed pre ordered Bio shock long time before the game came to stores because I had that felling 
 it will be something amazing and revolutionary. The game story is so great but one thing that shock 
 me is the most beautiful graphic that I ever saw and unique atmosphere. If you haw machine to run 
 this game put all graphics details to high and you will se what I meant about the details in this 
 game. The dep game play, fantastic atmosphere is what makes this game one of the best. I haw many 
 games in my collection but this one takes top place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kentelyoo
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review ever but I cant stay quiet this time. System Shock 2 is one of my favorite 
 games. And since Bioshock is its spiritual successor, I think its fair to compare the two. Its 
 been a while since I last played it, but I seem to remember its a better game on most fronts. 
 Bioshock is far from being a disaster, but its a missed opportunity.
  
  First, the Bioshock premise, setting, and characters are highly original in the video games universe. 
 So its even more cruel to discover that it was not exploited to its full potential. Since almost 
 the entire story is revealed through recordings, and you dont meet other people (much) , they had 
 to get it right. It was crucial. This storytelling device was an innovation at the time of the 
 first System Shock and it was used so effectively in SS1 and SS2 that you almost kept going just 
 to hear them and find what happened in this deserted and scary spaceship. There was a real suspense 
 involved. You could also follow the storylines of different believable characters. Each of these 
 storylines were fully developed and understandable. Thats not the case in Bioshock.
  
  In Bioshock, Its like the writer had interesting storylines in mind but the recordings dont do 
 them justice. Its either too cryptic, too anecdotal, useless, and maybe there is not enough of 
 them I dont know. It just doesnt work. You just finish the game, frustrated, and want to know 
 more about them. There was so much potential: Andrew Ryans lover, Tenenbaum, the smuggling racket, 
 and, by god, the Little Sisters and the Big Daddies. So much is left unanswered and so much of 
 the story is told in a hurry. And sorry, but I found Atlas text boring, and its the one you hear 
 the most.
  
  Another great System Shock storytelling device was ghosts apparitions. In Bioshock, its like they 
 forgot about it along the way. I remember maybe four or five apparitions, and they were mostly 
 useless. They couldve just left it out all together.
  
  As for the level design, I found almost every places were too small, enclosed, with a very low 
 ceiling. It reminded me of Deus Ex 2 and Thief 3. Ill let you guess why. I could not imagine Andrew 
 Ryan being satisfied of such a small public park, or shop, or bar. It doesnt fit with his vision. 
 I felt in a video game with limited memory usage.
  
  Like others have mentioned, I also was disappointed with the combat and its harder to tell why. 
 I too used what I found to be the most effective plasmid/weapon combination and did not vary my 
 technique much. Maybe its because enemies rush at you on sight and its difficult to prepare anything 
 and use elaborate plans using the plasmids, hacking options, and weapons. I mostly hacked everything 
 and use the same 2-3 plasmids and 2 weapons. I rapidly found the process repetitive and also laborious 
 (UI wise) .
  
  I probably dont fully grasp why I did not enjoy this game. All I know is that I got bored with 
 it half way through, I was glad when it was over and Ill probably never play it again. I give 
 it a 7 because when you compare it with most games instead of comparing it with the best games, 
 you have to admit it has an ambition, a depth, an originality, and an art direction that needs 
 to be recognized. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norton158
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, it really receives a bad review from people because this game requires a **** huge machine 
 in order to get played well. In my case, lowest of the resolutions, on medium settings and it get's 
 kind of ok to play. Anyway, this is a good game, perhaps being expensive. It is worth getting it, 
 but let me say again that with an older machine, this is not to be as great as in a last generation 
 one. I see this by myself. I still did not finish the game, and I bought it 2 weeks ago or more... 
 Did not have more impulse to play it, perhaps it being great. It got itens in game like cigars, 
 chocolate bars, stuff to heal you health, heal your mana (Eve) , to decrease your mana and eve and 
 so on... The records of people who lives in the undersea city too, adds for a good gameplay. It 
 is a very superb game, with the latest generation stuffs turned on (Be praised DX10.. ) . So, really 
 don't bother much with this game if your machine is not that good, unless you are not a demanding 
 player. Oh by the way, I did not rate the game superb because this was not made thinking in an 
 overall public, because not everyone got Dual Cores, 8800 or whatever cards and 2GB of ram. After 
 all, don't take this review as a rant, but as an advice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trentboy22
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I know I'll be slated for this but I just didn't enjoy this game as much as I hoped I would. Much 
 of the plasmid and weapons are fairly redundant as you can get through most of the game with just 
 your wrench and first plasmid, every so often the rocket launcher come in handy against the big 
 daddy's.
  
  There's also the combat itself, there's just something not quite right about it, there's no real 
 sense of fluidity when you take on multiple bad guys, everything becomes disjointed as you are 
 constantly changing between plasmid and guns play. I never got to just enjoy myself because I was 
 always trying to figure out which combo of plasmid/weapon I ought to be using (until I just stared 
 using the wrench that is) .
  
  The game is visually stunning but so what? Most half way decent games are now, the audio however 
 is mind blowing and the story aint half bad either.
  
  Game is also to short imo.
  
  Guess it's back to Half Life 2 for now. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beka13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Grapchic: Its beautifuel! Rapture is a city of chaos, but unreal engine can make it the city of beautifuel 
 chaos. Water looks nice as ever. Character models and textures a sharp. Looking good effects.
  
  Music, sound: The music is so damn beautifuel that you wanna give an oscar to the composer if 
 you liked it. The voice acting is great to. Its hard to explain why, you know.
  
  Tilt: Well, i was playing my first run like 6 or more houres. But if you played it once, you wanna 
 play it all over again.
  
  Combat system: Its great, you can choose from plasmids and weapons. PLasmids can give you superhuman 
 powers, when the weapons bring the old school shooter feeling. You can upgrade your weapons, and some 
 of the plasmids have levels.
  
  Great game, try it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loulantosdotcom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  Its a funny, almost intended slap in the face that mere hours after writing my previous article 
 about the length of Bioshock and its seemingly endless story I completed the game. Quite happily, 
 might I add. And its conclusion was worth every ounce of frustration Id collected along the way. 
 While I agree with peoples beliefs that the final boss could have been more challenging (it took 
 ME one try Me! And I generally am rather bad at any game that isnt sports-related) , the experience 
 itself is so arresting, and inevitably rewarding. And the final sequences offer the perfect antithesis 
 to the journey you take, so much so that even if youd deemed yourself a heartless, cold-blooded 
 monster for the duration a wry, warm fire may light inside your dark, grimey brain dungeon.
  
  The game is certainly something, and when I use the term experience it is entirely apt. Its 
 an experience which exercises the kind of narrative, story-driven concepts most films cannot even 
 manage. To understand this experience, like any story worth its salt, one must revisit with an 
 even keener eye. Attention to detail will not suffice; only attention to every detail. Because, 
 if youre as naive as I, youll have discarded many of those taped recordings and background nuances 
 as filler; extra freak-out content. When the truth is, once the game nears completion, you suddenly 
 realise that every one of those touches were crucial puzzle pieces.
  
  You may consider me far too bold to make the following statement, but in my eyes Bioshock is almost 
 the Citizen Kane of the gaming world. We may not fully appreciate its sheer tour de force of all 
 encompassing technical and creative prowess right now, but in years to come we will all be looking 
 back and marking this as the point gaming became just as important as film or music for rich metaphorical 
 content and social critique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtarmanrob
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  The minute this game hit my PC it was set to the hardest difficulty. It then became was one of 
 the most thrilling and enjoyable gaming experiences I have ever had.
  
  The graphics are astounding, in particular the water effects. The atmosphere of Bioshock is so 
 enthralling that you find that when you regrettably hit the exit button, feeling bad for neglecting 
 the rest of the world while you have been so immersed, you find that at least 3-4hours have passed.
 
  
  The sounds in the game, such as the randomly spoken non-sense by the occupants of Rapture, create 
 a perfect sense of your scenario; you're many kilometres under sea level, surrounded by obscenities, 
 obscurities and for lack of a better word, Rapture.
  
  All up, this game is a must have for any gaming enthusiast, especially those after a rich, new 
 environment full of creative and original material and to top of the amazing gameplay, beautiful 
 graphics. Perfect score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannytitus
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Im not sure I can write a review of the game because ll ive done was play the demo and stopped 
 it half way because I didnt want to spoil the full game for my self. But I'm think that South Africa 
 will recieve the game on the 13 September 2007 and sell it for a arm and a leg. :- ( but atleast 
 i'll get to play the game.
  
  But I've got to say that the environment in the game is amazing to say the least and the game runs 
 quite smoothly on full detail with DX 10 switched off because I dont have a DX 10 card, sad for 
 me . I run the game at full on DX 9 and at a resolution of 1280*1024. :-) But im hopfully getting 
 new hardware in the coming month and then im gonna dust off my Supreme Commander and try that again 
 because my current CPU cant handle Supreme Commander so good with a AMD 3000+.
  
  My score towards Bioshock will be according to the DEMO that I have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brood_aliance
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  One of the most anticipated game of the year, is also one of the best. Bioshock is a freaky, first-person 
 shooter set in the underwater city of Rapture. I was expecting scary, but it was definitely more 
 freaky. Rapture is very eerie and sets the mood very well. I would think that roaming in an underwater 
 city would be boring, I was very wrong. Nothing seems the same (from one room to another) . Also, 
 there are many hidden things to hack, and collect. I love how there are some RPG elements in the 
 game, like collecting plasmids (inhuman spells) , and tonics (inhuman addons) . The story is VERY 
 well written. It is one of those games that I actually might beat again to see all the endings. 
 There is some humor here and there to lighten the mood. There are also very unexpecting twists 
 and turns in the plot which makes it very interesting. The only con that I can think of is that 
 there aren't many different types of enemies. The graphics are amazing. The game is very optimized. 
 I got 45fps (on average) on 1360x768, at high settings with a ATi Radeon X1950Pro, which I wasn't 
 expecting. There were some dips in frame rate after going from one part of Rapture to another. 
 The sound is also very well done, especially the sound of the Big Daddies. The heavy grunting, 
 and footsteps sound great. The voice acting was also well done. Many people with many different 
 accents. One very small thing they could have added was more Little Sister lines, not just Mr. 
 Bubbles, Noo!, Kill him, and Angels don't wait for slowpokes. The value of this game is quite good. 
 The replay value is quite high, with all those collectibles, and endings. The only thing that could 
 have prolonged the game, is multiplayer. Wouldn't Plasmid Deathmatch, and Capture the Little Sister 
 be awesome?
  
  Overall this game is awesome. 2K Games have outdone themselves with Bioshock. Great story, graphics, 
 and sound. The only thing keeping this game from a 10, is the absence of multiplayer capability. 
 Other than that, there is nothing else to ask from this amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maf17
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Yes, the graphics were superb, the gameplay was imaginative and well-thought out, the setting was 
 breathtaking etc. Unfortunately, for me anyway, it just all became a little too repetitive. You 
 can only hack so many turrets, take down so many Big Daddies, and bash so many splicers to bleeding 
 pulp, before it all starts to pall a bit. The story wasnt really engaging enough and the settings 
 while spectacular, were just too similar. I really missed the spookiness of System Shock 2, the 
 manic funhouse atmosphere of Bioshock just wasnt as good IMHO. Unlike the hybrids of SS2, who were 
 simultaneously scary and pathetic and managed to make you feel sorry for them as you blew them 
 away, the splicers with their demented ravings just became plain annoying. One thing that astonished 
 and disappointed me was that the game made so little use of its much-vaunted underwater setting. 
 I thought that there should have been at least one level where you had to go outside Rapture and 
 and actually contend with the environment. But no, apart from the drips and pools and occasional 
 flood, it could have been just set on a really weird spaceship. This omission was just baffling. 
 In summary, while it was entertaining, well-made, immersive and certainly worth playing, it isnt 
 the stunning magnum opus it's being made out to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellowsnow00
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Very good game, but freezes for about one second a lot towards end of game. Annoying enough to 
 make me not want to finish the game.
  Very good game, but freezes for about one second a lot towards end of game. Annoying enough to 
 make me not want to finish the game.
  Very good game, but freezes for about one second a lot towards end of game. Annoying enough to 
 make me not want to finish the game.
  Very good game, but freezes for about one second a lot towards end of game. Annoying enough to 
 make me not want to finish the game.
  Very good game, but freezes for about one second a lot towards end of game. Annoying enough to 
 make me not want to finish the game.
  Very good game, but freezes for about one second a lot towards end of game. Annoying enough to 
 make me not want to finish the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kazona
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Over the last few years there have been quite a few games that attempted to blend the first person 
 shooter genre with rpg elements, most notably the cool powers, and intriguing story, and the option 
 to explore. None of those attempts have been really successful, though, and the features of either 
 genre just didn't seem to blend well with the other. Bioshock, however, manages to break that curse, 
 and successfully combines first person shooter elements, with the cool powers, intriguing story, 
 and plenty of exploration.
  
  With Bioshock players are given a great story that's told without ever breaking up the action, 
 thanks to the use of radio transmissions, and audio diaries you'll find throughout the game. What's 
 great is that you don't have to dive into a menu to find those diaries and play them. As soon as 
 you find one, you can play it with a press of a button, allowing you to continue on with your objective 
 while listening to the voices of the people that once inhabited the underwater city of Rapture.
 
  
  That city, by the way, really fits with the idea of what an underwater city should look like during 
 the era of the 1950's. One noticeable thing is how everything looks old-fashioned compared to recent 
 times, yet still comes across as technologically advanced. Another interesting element is that 
 it all really looks lived in, and it's not hard to imagine people living their lives, going about 
 their daily things as they would in any other city. Each area you visit has its own distinct look 
 while still fitting with the theme of the entire city. For instance, one moment you'll find yourself 
 in beautiful man-made gardens, and the next you'll enter an area that has a cold, industrial feel 
 to it, and yet you'll always feel like those different areas belong together in the city.
  
  Of course being an underwater city on the brink of collapse, with leaks everywhere, is going 
 to have plenty of water in it. In fact, the first thing you'll come into contact with, is water, 
 as your plane crashes into the ocean at the start of the game, and you have to swim to a lighthouse 
 that serves as the entrance to Rapture. And the first thing that stands out is how great the water 
 looks. But, if you pay a bit closer attention, you'll notice the odd white foamy patches when you 
 walk through it, instead of the proper ripple effect you'd expect. Ice as well looks great at first 
 sight, but when melting it using your fire power, it just looks odd, especially when it's pieces 
 of ice hanging from the ceiling, as it just seems to change texture, and then shrink. These may 
 seem like minor details, but for a game with such a heavy focus on water, it's a bit of a disappointment 
 that more effort wasn't put into it.
  
  Something else that may very well stand out as soon as you get over how the water looks, is that 
 there is something missing, namely sound. On the system on which the game was played, sound disappeared 
 completely when selecting 5.1 surround in conjunction with EAX. As soon as EAX was turned off, 
 sound worked just fine, but this fix may not work for everyone, depending on their hardware configuration, 
 which means some people who buy the game will not be able to enjoy the full atmosphere the game 
 offers through its otherwise outstanding use of sound and music. Because when the sound works, 
 it really does add perfectly to the already great visuals of the game. There's nothing like hearing 
 the groans of a Big Daddy in the distance, as his heavy footsteps echo right down to your core, 
 or the sound of metal and glass straining against the relentless pressure of the ocean outside. 
 Even the musical score adds to the whole ambiance, with the right music playing at just the right 
 times, further setting the mood without ever overly dominating.
  
  Attentive readers will probably have noticed the mention of a fire power, which is called incinerate. 
 You gain this, and other powers through the use of plasmids which you'll find along your way. Other 
 powers include things like telekinesis, which allows you to pick up objects and bodies, an electro 
 bolt, which temporarily stuns your enemies, the ability to freeze your enemies using ice, and plenty 
 more. Best of all, they flawlessly combine with your regular weapons, of which you'll find plenty 
 in the game. You'll get access to vast array of weapons, ranging from a pistol to a grenade launcher. 
 Each weapon is also able to carry different types of ammo, and can be upgraded at the therefore 
 intended upgrade machines. Keep in mind however, that there are only a limited number of upgrade 
 spots in the game, and each one only allows for one upgrade before being disabled.
  
  So yes, there are definitely a lot of powers to choose from, as well as plenty of weapons. But 
 while there are plenty of very useful powers and weapons, some of them aren't really as effective 
 as you might expect. Some of the weapons can even be downright cumbersome to use due to the overly 
 long reloading times, or the long time it takes to switch from one type of ammunition to another. 
 This might add a level of strategy to how you play the game, but that really only works when you 
 know what you'll be facing beforehand, and not in the middle of a heated battle where you'll be 
 busy enough trying to survive, let alone have time to waste on long reloads or switching of ammo.
 
  
  But the plasmids don't just grant you offensive powers. There are also plenty which will improve 
 your physical condition, grant you better hacking skills, allow you to make better use of your 
 evo, which is the fuel behind your offensive powers, and more. And unlike many other games, you 
 won't just automatically receive these extras linearly throughout the game. A lot of these extras 
 can only be acquired if you spend some time exploring the city, or by purchasing them at various 
 locations using a material called ADAM, that you'll have to get from posessed little girls called 
 little sisters.
  
  So unlike most first person shooters where you'll just unlock some bonus content like artwork if 
 you explore, Bioshock actually gives the player something useful for exploring all the areas in 
 the game. But you won't just find new plasmids, ammo, or other goodies. By exploring, you'll also 
 find the various audio diaries mentioned earlier. While you're never obligated to find or listen 
 to them, they do help clear up certain questions you might start wondering about along the way. 
 Of course the more you explore, the more enemies you'll run into. Oddly enough, though, there's 
 only two real types of enemies in the game, and those are the splicers and the big daddies. But 
 that certainly doesn't mean there's no variety of enemies to face. The splicers, for instance, 
 are basically humans who've been making far too much use of ADAM, and ended up going insane, and 
 turning inhuman. While they all have the same general look of humans gone insane, after a little 
 while you'll start to notice the differences between each type of splicer. Spider splicers, for 
 instance, have large, sword-like looking hands, and are capable of crawling on ceilings. Houdini 
 splicers are capable of shooting fireballs, and teleporting. There's several other types of enemies, 
 each with their own attacks and distinct look. And while it might be a bit difficult to tell them 
 apart just by looking at them, the differences certainly won't be mistakeable when you're fighting 
 them.
  
  The big daddy only comes in two variations, but that's really more than enough for you to have 
 your hands full on. You see, the big daddy is the toughest foe you'll encounter throughout the 
 game. Whereas you might not break a sweat dealing with 4 splicers at a time, one big daddy is tough 
 enough, fast enough, and strong enough to not only make you break a sweat, but very possibly kill 
 you the first few times you fight one. And while they'll leave you alone if you don't attack them, 
 fighting them is kind off unavoidable because they're the protectors of the little sisters, and 
 you won't be able to get to one without first dealing with the big daddy that protects her first. 
 Once you have dealt with them, however, you're faced with two choices: you can either harvest the 
 little sister, which will give you the most ADAM, or you can free them, which will give you half 
 the ADAM, but will return the girl to normal. And even though the choice might sound simple, you'll 
 be introduced to a character along the way who promises to make it worth your while if you free 
 the little sisters instead of harvesting them, and your choice may very well impact the story as 
 well, so you're definitely given some food for thought. But splicers and big daddies aren't the 
 only dangers you'll face. Along your not-so-pleasant hike through Rapture, you'll encounter plenty 
 of turrets that either shoot bullets or rockets at you, and security cameras that send security 
 bots after you if you're spotted by one. Luckily, though, you can actually use these objects to 
 your own advantage. One way to achieve this, is by hacking these cameras, security bots, or turrets. 
 When you hack something, your screen switches to a little puzzle which you'll have to complete 
 in order to perform the hack successfully. Failing the hack either causes an alarm to go off, or 
 the machine short circuiting, resulting in a damaging shock. The benefits of a successful hack, 
 however, make it worth attempting them because hacked machines will attack your enemies, making 
 some of the fights easier to handle. Another, faster way, is to simply tag your enemies with one 
 of your plasmids, causing any security measure to temporarily forget about you, and instead focus 
 on them. But being temporary, the attention will be back on you as soon as the power wears off, 
 or all enemies are killed. And if you just can't be bothered with either of those choices, you 
 can just destroy the machines and be done with it. So despite the lack of usefulness of some of 
 the weapons, Bioshock really does offer multiple ways for players to tackle dangerous situations.
 
  
  Although dangerous is probably not the right term to use, since there isn't any real danger, no 
 matter how difficult the fight. That's because in Bioshock there is no real death penalty that 
 you'll have to concern yourself with. If you do happen to die, you're simply resurrected at the 
 nearest vita-chamber, with all your inventory and most of your health intact. What's more, everything 
 else is left the way it was before you died as well, including the number of remaining enemies, 
 and the damage you've done to them. So while taking on an enemy like the big daddy might result 
 in death, there's nothing to really worry about, since you can just go back, and wear him down 
 further. And if you happen to die again, just rinse and repeat until he's dead.
  
  While not having to worry about dying may seem cool at first, it's counter-productive in encouraging 
 people to save often, which despite the lack of a death penalty, isn't a good thing. That's because 
 Bioshock has a habit of crashing either at random, or during the loading of a new level, the latter 
 of which happens more frequently than the first. So if you've just spent an hour getting past one 
 level, only to crash at the loading of the next, it'll mean you get to do that whole hour all over 
 again, including any exploring you've done to possibly find useful extras. And if it wasn't for 
 the intriguing story that just compels you forward, this annoyance would likely cause players to 
 easily lose interest in the game.
  
  But thankfully, the story is just that great to keep you coming back even despite that possible 
 frustration. In fact, everything about the game is so compelling that even with these, and other 
 technical glitches, people will still thoroughly enjoy every minute of it. There's just so much 
 to do, so many ways to deal with situations, and such a great story to follow that despite any 
 technical glitches, this still is a great achievement in combining the best of two worlds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitesh-mistry
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I must give it to the game it is extremly good. The graphics are superb as not only do the characters 
 look strong and real but also have a lot of detail to them making them all unique. However on the 
 other hand it is not DX10 suberb just DX9 superb.
  The sound in the game is also remarkable, everything sound soo real its unbeliable and all this 
 justs adds to the effect. The stroyline is very strong and the way all the pieces fit together 
 is perfect, to be honest i think after playing Bioshock i am finding the stroylines to be just 
 as good and as well portraited as a movie. As for the gameplay it works soo well with Plasmids 
 and your guns however the game is very linear in which you seem to just follow a certain direction 
 even though the developers claimed a very open game. However the game does have its minor flaws 
 some technical like widescreen display not working properly also i beleive the big daddies were 
 not showed off in the game and were not made to be as good as they should have been also judging 
 that its a &pound;30 game and after you have completed it theres no online mode or good enough 
 reason to play it again. Other than that they game is fantastic and definatly a worth buy. If nothing 
 else the limited edition steel case will look very nice on your shelf :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Story: Deep. So Deep. That you must play it to experience it's Depth.
  
  Graphics: Amazing. A great art style also. So Pretty.
  
  Audio: Creepy and really make you 
 feel like you are in Rapture.
  
  Missions: Very open-ended.
  
  Controls: Better on the PC and easy to switch from Weapons to Plasmid, Etc.
  
  Features: Most 
 everything in the world is interactable, Mod-Able Weapons, Many different plasmids, tonics, etc.
 
  
  A. I.: Very smart. They work around and with the world of Rapture in an attempt to put you down.
 
  
  Loading Times: Long depending on your PC.
  
  Multiplayer: None. And that isn't necessarily a bad thing.
  
  Requirements: Fairly high but 
 there are work arounds for Shader 2.0 video cards.
  
  Weapons: Mod-Able. Your average FPS weapons with many twists and extras such as different types 
 of ammo and add-ons.
  
  The Good: The whole experience of this game and how you are immersed in Rapture.
  
  The Bad: 
 Requirements are a little rough but other than that nothing.
  
  The Ugly: Your Enemies, the splicers. Blah.
  
  Replay Ability: High.
  
  The Bottom Line: 
 Buy This. A must buy for 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I had been anticipating this game since I heard about it along time ago and by the time I finished 
 it, it definately did not disappoint me.. I know the game has alot of glitches on the computer 
 but it did run fairly well on my computer at high resolution and all details turned on.. The game 
 did crash occasionnaly and there was some stuttering.. The copy protection useing securom is also 
 a pain to and I didn't even realize it only allowed 2 copies to be installed until I read it online.. 
 On to the good parts.. The graphics on this game are beautiful from the enviroments to the characters.. 
 The water effects from leaks in the ceiling to waterfalls flowing down staircases all look as good 
 as they are going to get on a game on a game this generation I would think.. The characters and 
 enemies all look fantastic as well, the only problem being the splicers all do somewhat look alike 
 and thats your primary enemy throughout the whole game.. The explosions and the powers you have 
 all give off great effects.. Theres nothing like setting a splicer on fire and watching them dive 
 into a pool of water to extinguish themselves then electricuting the water they are in.. The sound 
 effects are awesome on this game, from the screams of agony of the tortured splicers or to the 
 unearthly moan of a big daddy lumbering through the dark corridors.. The voice acting is all great 
 to and convincing.. The story of the game is very well done as well but I wont go into that too 
 much.. The gameplay is fun and addictive.. As you go through the game you gradually uncover new 
 powers and weapons and are eventually able to upgrade the weapons and powers you get.. There is 
 also a research camera you get that lets you get bonuses against the type of enemy you photograph.. 
 The combat can be a bit annoying at times especially when you activate an alarm and have to fight 
 off those flying turrets or when some of the splicers take about 5 shotgun shots or more to take 
 them down.. The big daddies you fight in the game are tough to take down but usually you can just 
 let them kill you and revive then keep fighting them with the same health they had.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serbica
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Game play: great , but linear.. Lots of guns, but more importantly lots of power for you to use 
 and combine. the enemies in this game are tricky. the AI plays an important role and is different 
 in every splicer ( normal, spider ) . Story: this is one of the best in any game so far!!!! It makes 
 you wonder all the time about what's gonna happen next or around the corner. It keeps you tense 
 all the time.
  
  Graphics: Great but not outstanding!!! Water is No 1 (it looks stunning!!!) . Textures sometimes blurry. 
 Resources: It's one of the most optimized games ever created. You can run it on older PC with no 
 problem!!!
  
  Verdict : A must have in your collection
  You have to buy this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasgarsha
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  BioShock is a well-constructed and detailed experience. There are certainly some surprises to be 
 had in Rapture.
  
  As for the production value of the game itself, it is superb. The visuals are stunning, and added 
 scripted detail further enhances the experience at every turn. The sound effects and voice acting 
 are simply fantastic.
  
  Gameplay is a pleasure in BioShock. The additional skills you discover are both useful and fun 
 to wield. One aspect I found particularly surprising, and something that sets BioShock apart from 
 other shooters is the pace of battle. The foes you encounter move extremely fast and keeping a 
 steady hand is critically important. The ammo supply is limited, which behooves the player to restrain 
 from blasting away blindly.
  
  Story is the central strength of BioShock. The audio recordings and creepy Art Deco design lead 
 the player down a very interesting and disturbing story line that benefits from quality writing 
 and acting.
  
  BioShock is probably the best new game I've played in 2007, but it does have some disappointments. 
 For one, there is no multi-player support. For other shooters, multiplayer action accounts for 
 a good part of the value of the game, and would've been a very good addition. As for other gripes, 
 the variety of foes and weapons is a bit lacking.
  
  All told, BioShock is an enjoyable diversion and a very well-polished title and is recommended 
 for fans of single player story rich shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luciotss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  Blade Runner finds Psychosis in the deep one of the sea. Although the phrase does not define 
 all the aspects of Bioshock was the way that I found to describe it in few words for people who 
 are not close of the videogames during a meeting of guideline of the UOL. One is about a game of 
 fiction, but not futurista. For the the opposite, the action if passes in 1960 in a fantastic submarine 
 city. In this place, the insanity generates violence and children search the protection of monstrous 
 giants dressing diving-dress.
  
  Bioshock is a game of shot in first person of the creators of System Shock. Such which the 
 acclaimed success of 1994, that it had a competent continuation, does not have to be compared with 
 the too much headings of the sort. It is of those games that appear from time to time and conquer 
 the player for the experience and history, as 2 Half-Life and Metal To frost Solid. To dive 
 in Bioshock is a inesquec&iacute; vel experience.
  
  Happy 1959
  
  Andrew Ryan was a visionary. Between the North American capitalism, the Soviet communism and the 
 doctrines of the church catholic, it opted to creating its proper society, submerged in some point 
 of the Atlantic and total disentailed of the civilization. Welcome the Rapture. Without deuses 
 or kings, in this city the artist does not need to fear the sensor, the great one is not constrangido 
 for the small e scientists is not limited by the morality. Wonders of the genetics perfect the 
 race human being beyond the imaginable one. But when the abuse runs away from the control, the 
 isolation charges its price.
  
  After one air accident, a survivor without name discovers in a rochedo the entrance for Rapture. 
 When setting in motion the batisfera that gives access to the city, the stranger and the player 
 is come across with the fantastic universe. Sonorous posters, acknowledgments, neon and impressive 
 effect of light give to life to the one city forgotten in the time. These few minutes illustrate 
 the high value of production and denounce: Bioshock is a great game. After the stop of the batisfera, 
 the things alone tend to improve it player and to get worse for the surviving inafortunado one.
 
  
  The first scene of horror defines the current state of Rapture. It is a cursed place and this feeling 
 of assombra&ccedil;&atilde; o pursues the player for all its mysterious day with shades in the wall 
 and noises. In way the grotescos mutants and beings, a voice friend comes to the aid: through a 
 radio of short waves, Atlases ask for aid to save its family, female prisoner in some place of 
 the city. Plot to the part, the voice acts many times as tutorial, explaining the peculiarities 
 of the universe of Bioshock, as plasmids.
  
  Modified Geneticamente
  
  But nor everything is history and atmosphere. They captivate very, and, but the mechanics and variety 
 are that they keep the imprisoned player in the control. Bioshock has a gamma of itens and possibilities 
 that defy the intelligence of the player. In the start, the only weapon is an English key, but 
 this soon dumb when discovering that it is possible to modify geneticamente the body to acquire 
 to be able, the calls plasmids. In the start the only ability is to brandish rays through the tips 
 of the fingers, but until the end of the adventure the player will be hipnotizando opponent, levitando 
 objects or setting on fire what he will be for the front, to only cite some examples. To the side 
 of the traditional firearms, plasmids adds strategy to the frantic action and makes with that each 
 departure is only. What valley is to try. The Electrobolt, first of plasmids gives a sample of 
 the ingenuity. In a submerged city in ruins what they do not lack they are water puddles. He is 
 intent to the movement of the enemies and when they will have in contact with water, it shoots 
 to electrocute all of an only time. Of ownership of the Incinerate, as plasmid, the player can 
 still force them for water setting fire fire - a time that they will be wet, the shock will be 
 the mercy blow.
  
  These are samples. Bioshock is shining in propitiating options. If in a tip of the control, the 
 player has access to plasmids, of the other side the conventional weapons are all that include, 
 for example, pistol, rifle, machine gun and thrower of garnet. The choice of the attack form is 
 made by the triggers of the control: the right is for weapons, while the left goes off plasmids. 
 The buttons above, of shoulder, serve to alternate enter the diverse types of plasmids and weapons.
 
  
  It is possible still to hackear electronic of the scene so that they work its favor. When congealing 
 a flying sentry, for example, the player has the option to modify its circuit so that it starts 
 to attack its enemies. Hack is in the truth a minigame that remembers to the break-head Pipe Dreams 
 - that one to join pipes before the water leaks. Good favors can be gotten through hack, but they 
 go being more difficult to each attempt.
  
  Physical Weapons, plasmids and even though its ability and you modify electronic need you evolve. 
 In marries that contrary, you advance lives will become lives laborious and. Plasmids is restituted 
 with blisters of EVE, who can be found in bodies, spread for the scenes or in machines of venda 
 in some points of Rapture - it does not leave to collect money when to come spread for the way! 
 The same valley for the ammunition of the weapons and kits doctors, who recoup the energy. One 
 hour arrives, however, that rep&ocirc; r is not enough. She is necessary to increase the capacity 
 of its body to store ADAM, the substance that allows the genetic modifications. For this the player 
 will have to deal with Big Daddy. These giants dressing diving-dress can seem slow, but when 
 she treats yourself to defend the Little Sisters, children that always folloies them, are extremely 
 violent. The small ones collect corpse blood with a syringe and they drink it to recycle ADAM. 
 They are not pure children, as its alert friend Atlases in the start of the adventure, but a time 
 that loses its Big Daddy they cry abandoned. In this hour, a decision fits: to directly extract 
 ADAM of the body of the Little Sister, placing the life of it at risk, or to try to eliminate 
 the parasite that generates this substance in its body. The difference is the amount of ADAM who 
 the player will go to obtain, or in other words, how much he will go to evolve. If to help in the 
 decision, Bioshock is not a difficult game. The variety of enemies of Bioshock is small, if 
 it summarizes the five types and all can easily be eliminated with the correct technique. Already 
 the pairs Little Sister and Big Daddy had received all the attention from the producers. The 
 details arrive to comover. Valley the penalty to be motionless to observe the relation between 
 the two. To see and to hear Another symbiosis of Bioshock is sonorous part with the appearance. 
 Nobody was born here in the decade of 50 - my excuses in case that it is committing injustices 
 -, but the visual presentation and the immersion almost make to believe that Rapture is real. Radios, 
 jukeboxes, you furnish, posters send art-d&eacute; co of the time. A work of incredible research 
 that the producers had made question to value preventing interruptions. This because the great 
 difference between Bioshock and Metal To frost Solid, among others great histories of the videogames, 
 is that the game uses few interventions in graphical computation very to explain the narrative. 
 That is, at rare moments the player is taken off of the experience stops later having to dive again 
 in the action. Not even he has pause to save the game, that is made when finding the Vita-Chambers 
 for the way. A time that the player dies, returns from the last visited Vita-Chamber. The high 
 value of the artistic production also is in the beautiful visual effect - as of the electricity 
 and explosions - and in the sonorous set. Alternating music between calm moments and intense terror. 
 To the floor for Rapture, distant noises, grumbles and shouts increase the suspense climate. The 
 dublagem is also competent, to start for the voice of the patriarch of the Andrew Ryan, interpreted 
 for Vincent Price. Valley to comment that Rapture possesss some daily ones in audio spread for 
 rubbles. Player has the option not to listen to them, but with this he loses the chance to understand 
 this world in the vision of its idealizers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  If you are reading this review, then you have, by now, almost certainly heard or read of Bioshocks 
 numerous accolades. It is one of the most hyped games in recent years, and most of the reviews 
 so far have proclaimed Game of the Year, One of the Best Games Ever, and Close to Perfect. 
 It is this hype and clamor that makes Bioshock one of the hardest games that I have had to review. 
 The game is far from perfect, and that creates the temptation to pan it to make up for all of the 
 10/10 scores that it is getting. Taken in a vacuum though, it is a great game. No doubt, it is 
 a well-constructed FPS/RPG hybrid with a fascinating setting and stunning art direction. However, 
 it has some flaws, and it is disappointing that the developers of the game didnt even try to hide 
 the fact that it is just a repackaged (and stripped down) System Shock 2. System Shock 2 was a 
 great game, but it is also eight years old. As a big fan of the FPS/RPG genre, I would have rather 
 had System Shock Plus than System Shock Lite (which is what this game is) . Still, Bioshock is 
 a very easy game to recommend to just about anyone.
  
  Bioshock has a lot going for it, but if there is one feature that stands out, its the games atmosphere. 
 The theme of an isolated utopia gone wrong separates Bioshock from every other game ever made. 
 The world of Rapture is like a gigantic underwater asylum, full of brilliant but dangerous and 
 deformed lunatics. Its not a cartoonish vision of insanity that you might find in a Bugs Bunny 
 cartoon. Instead, it is a disturbing and emotionally stirring experience. You can see that the 
 people of Rapture were once great artists, scientists, and philosophers, but they have since degenerated 
 into violent anarchy. Bioshock is probably the only game that you will ever play that invokes feelings 
 of sympathy for the enemies who are trying to kill you. It might be the most creatively and artistically 
 inspired game that I have ever played. It is this inspiration that overrides the problems that 
 Bioshock has and makes it a great game. It is a reason why anyone who plays video games should 
 at least try it, if for no other reason than to see what kind of experiences video games can offer.
 
  
  The visual style is the cornerstone of Bioshocks artistic splendor. The game lifts the 1950s 
 sci-fi theme of the Fallout series, and then takes it to entirely new levels. If Fallout were made 
 into a first person shooter, then the interior of Rapture is exactly what a vault should look like. 
 There is a wide variety of believable environments that you would expect in an isolated city. Every 
 environment features clunky old 40s and 50s era machinery, neon lights, and old fashioned posters 
 that cheesily hawk all sorts of products, ranging from cigarettes to genetic upgrades. The game 
 is drenched in the na&iuml; ve Ozzie and Harriet type optimism portrayed on television of the post 
 World War 2 era. Its this style that makes the grotesque dystopia of Rapture even more pronounced. 
 Since Rapture is an isolated city, the more advanced weapons and security turrets look like they 
 have been fashioned out of old, cobbled together junk. There is simply not one pixel in this game 
 that pulls you out of the experience.
  
  One of the outstanding features of Irrational games like Freedom Force and System Shock 2 was the 
 audio, and youll be happy to know that Bioshock doesnt disappoint in this area either. Every 
 environment is alive with rich audio. Almost everything in the game sounds distinctive and memorable. 
 The Big Daddies (the games toughest enemies) , in particular, are fearsome. They are extremely 
 loud and they shake the ground like elephants when they walk. The voice acting is absolutely top 
 notch and arguably the best seen in any game for years, and it is accompanied by superb writing, 
 especially when it comes to the inane chatter of the crazy splicers that stalk you. There is one 
 disappointment in the audio though, and it is that some of the weapons in the game sound surprisingly 
 weak, especially the Tommy Gun and the shotgun. The machine gun just sounds like a rapid fire version 
 of the weak revolver, and the shotgun lacks the powerful and resounding boom that is found in other 
 first person shooters.
  
  Bioshock is excellent in its presentation, and that is a good thing, because without it, Bioshock 
 would be perhaps a good game, but not an outstanding one. Bioshock combines a few different gameplay 
 elements in a solid way, but doesnt excel at any particular one. As an FPS, it is decent, but 
 not extraordinary. Environments are extremely tight and cramped (Im talking Doom 3 tight and cramped) , 
 which is consistent with the games fiction, but does not always make for fun battles. Dodging 
 the games fast-moving enemies is hard to do since there is very little space, so the best way 
 to get through most battles is to freeze or stun enemies and then blast them in the face with your 
 most powerful weapon. The weapons themselves arent extraordinary or especially fun to use, and 
 they generally lack the powerful punch that you find in the best games of the FPS genre (Call of 
 Duty 2, for example) . Bioshock also doesnt feature any of the little mechanics that have shown 
 up lately in the best FPSs, like aiming down the sights, use of cover, or alternate fire on the 
 weapons.
  
  Bioshock also has some RPG-like elements, such as the genetic upgrades that you can augment yourself 
 with, money, and weapon upgrades. The game is very light in an RPG sense. There is no system that 
 quantifies what your upgrades do, and sometimes its hard to tell, since enemies seem to scale 
 up as you go through the game. The ability to re-spec yourself at stations throughout the game 
 allows you to experiment with all sorts of fun ways to kill enemies, and that is a good thing. 
 However, it also flattens consequences for any of your choices (lack of consequences for choices 
 is a recurring problem in Bioshock.) Sometimes, the ways that enemies can easily corner you seems 
 cheap, but the game basically overwrites all of its own mistakes with one big flaw  death with 
 absolutely zero penalty. In Bioshock, when you die, you respawn for free immediately at the nearest 
 respawning station, which is usually seconds away from where you died. There is no money required 
 to respawn, and no achievement required to activate the respawning stations. Quite frankly, Bioshock 
 is totally lacking in challenge. Its ridiculously easy on the Medium difficulty level. Respawning 
 in games is not a new idea. System Shock 2 did it, but it cost money. Prey did it, but you had 
 to earn your health back in a mini-game. Bioshock, on the other hand, never punishes you at all 
 for doing stupid things or being clumsy or careless. The game does encourage experimentation so 
 that you can find fun new ways to kill people, but it also removes any rewarding feeling that you 
 might get from killing a tough boss or a Big Daddy. Since theres no risk in the game, there is 
 also no sense of fear. Bioshock is not a scary game at all, and if I had to pick one complaint 
 about the game, the lack of dangerous tension would be it.
  
  Bioshock has been touted as an emergent gameplay masterpiece with unprecedented interaction with 
 the environment and revolutionary AI. In stark contrast to the hyperbole surrounding the game, 
 youll find very little here that hasnt been done before. The physics in the game are generally 
 limited to throwing objects or exploding barrels at people  mechanics that were perfected three 
 years ago by other games. You can interact with the environment in lots of little ways, like flushing 
 toilets and breaking glass, but its nothing that wasnt done in Deus Ex or Max Payne. The AI is 
 good and competent, but also not extraordinary. The way that the Little Sisters scavange for dead 
 bodies to harvest Adam (the games genetic currency) is interesting, but other than that, you wont 
 see the AI do anything that you havent seen before.
  
  Its impossible to review Bishock without comparing it to System Shock 2. Bioshock was billed as 
 the spiritual successor to that game, and it generally fulfills that role. It has the same attention 
 to attention to detail and the same isolated, desperate atmosphere as the 1999 classic. In the 
 meantime, at doesnt have a lot of the same annoying contrivances, such as weapons that break. 
 However, Bioshock borrows too much from System Shock 2 at times. The storytelling technique of 
 finding recordings randomly scattered around seems outdated now. The story itself is also horribly 
 predictable once you realize that it is System Shock 2.1, and generally every major plot point 
 and character in Bioshock has a direct parallel with System Shock 2. In addition, Bioshocks gameplay 
 is generally a lot shallower, its bad guys arent as intimidating as Shodan or The Many, and the 
 game simply isnt scary. In summary, Bioshock has far better graphics, it is a better FPS, and 
 it has a thought-provoking political theme. System Shock 2 was a far better RPG and horror game. 
 Both are ultimately great games, and both are very long (Bioshock takes about 20 hours to finish) .
 
  
  For me, Bioshock is a very strong 8.5. If I could, I would give this game an 8.7 or an 8.8, but 
 its not quite a 9, because it is not at all a perfect game. If you liked System Shock 2, then 
 you will like Bioshock, even though its not the revolutionary game that it was billed to be. If 
 you have never played or heard of System Shock 2, then youll probably still like Bioshock if you 
 have any interest action games. The unique theme and superb presentation make up for some shallow 
 gameplay elements and nonexistent difficulty level. In recent memory, there is nothing like it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just4pool93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  When I first saw this game back at E3, I thought to myself, This game is gonna be a piece of crap! 
 But I was with my friend when he bought it on the day of release, we played for awhile and I realized 
 it was better than I thought. It has an interesting story and the Plasmid system is pretty sweet 
 too. The achievements are somewhat easy to get so that is something I enjoyed too, he he. Well, 
 if you are craving a good FPS than you should definitely check this game out. It can get a little 
 frustrating scurrying for ammo and supplies all the time and I think that could have used a little 
 more fine tuning, and that is what kept it from a perfect 10 in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easykill_astari
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:50 am PT
Review:  ok ... bioshock .... the first thing i tough was : WTF IS THAT BIG FAT CREEPY THING ?!?
  
  The only problem i see is that it is a pc killer , so everyone Update time ...
  
  of course 
 ! , if its a pc killer , u can play at low setthings and it will be like a medium supreme commander 
 or a high battlefield 2 !
  
  the game is super , u can lose urself in Rapture for awhours and still have stuff to explore ! 
 the gameplay is like all shooter , that is great !
  
  i love the story , it is very good , whit tricks around every cornner The enemys are super , there 
 is a lot of diferent ones the big daddys come out of no where ... that is the only problem i can 
 find !
  
  this was it for my first review! i hope u all like bioshock , i sure did ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rennik_l
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  Since that first gameplay demo in which Ken Levine narrated I've been waiting, and waiting, and 
 waiting for Bioshock to come out. Now it's out, and I have played and beaten it at least once, 
 is it as good as hoped, that's what this review will explain.
  
  Story: I will try not to spoil the story, so don't expect much here, but the game places you basically 
 as an unnamed protagonist, (the name Jack is on a package in the into) who after experiencing a 
 plane crash climbs into a bathysphere and enters the large, underwater city of Rapture, which was 
 built by Andrew Ryan, a man who wished to escape the governments and religions of the world, and 
 try another way, however that way failed as you see within the first 10 minutes of the game.
  
  Graphics: This was the game that made me update my card to shader model 3, I didn't do it for 
 oblivion to get HDR, I did it for Bioshock. The graphics are stunning, the best looking FPS out 
 there at this time, period, the lighting is soft and works well with the city's falling apart state. 
 The textures are sharp and pretty, making the game unbelievably immersive, the fact you don't have 
 to press any button to inspect a sign, just walk up and read the thing. The plasmid effects make 
 them look convincing in the ways of how they work, and the water effects are just plain gorgeous, 
 even that is an understatement, definatly the best and most realistic water to date. Definatly 
 perfect in every way I can think of, and amazing that my Radeon x1650 pro did full detail on a 
 reasonable resolution with hardly any slowdown.
  
  Sound: The second part of where this game truly shines. The string music establishes the creepy 
 moods when neccessary, otherwise you have the very immersive 40s and 50s music playing over radios 
 and loudspeakers. The voice acting is spot on and makes the video recordings come to life, giving 
 the characters personality even though most of the recorded voices are in fact dead. The splicers 
 sound great, yelling and screaming as they come at you, hating themselves for their addictions 
 to the plasmids, which also sound great. The metal creaking of the world around you, the water 
 falling in, the doors, the weapons, etc, all sound great.
  
  Gameplay: This is where that .5 for the perfect 10 rating is lost, and it's lost in the fact that 
 aside from the final boss, you cannot die, you end up in the vita-chamber, and your enemies still 
 have the lost health you dealt them. Otherwise the gameplay rocks, the controls are tight, the 
 switching between plasmid and weapons witht the RMB is simple and easy to manage, the mouse wheel 
 keeps switching your available weapons/plasmids on the fly and doesn't call any menus up to pause 
 the action. The game is somewhat long for a first person shooter laces with RPS elements, ranging 
 around 20 hours, and that 20 hours might as well be 40+ because there is too much to see and experiment 
 with in just one playthrough, plus 2 endings (3 technically, but the only real difference is the 
 voice over is slightly different in two of them) means there is reason to dive into Rapture more 
 than once.
  
  Final Thoughts: The hype of Bioshock is well rounded, it justifies what the game is and does. This 
 is a milestone in shooters, even without multiplayer. If someone makes a GOOD multiplayer mod, 
 this game, with it's plasmid/weapon combos could easily become more popular than many of the PC 
 FPS games out there now. This game is GoTY material (though I am not saying it's definatly going 
 to win, though it will be nominated) and is worth jumping through the hoops of securom (which is 
 soon to be removed anyway) . If you haven't dived into Rapture yet, grab your wet suit, enter the 
 bathysphere and experience one of the best pc games to come out in the last 5 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rrrufusss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  First off, let me just say that it's absolutely worth buying and playing through Bioshock. The 
 atmosphere, graphically and sonicly is at the very cutting edge of game design. It's gorgeous, 
 sucks you in, and makes you want to explore every nook and cranny before moving on.
  
  HOWEVER. In many, MANY reviews, Ken Levine states what basically amount to outright lies about 
 this game. He's stated that it would be an open-ended sandbox kind of experience that would give 
 you the freedom to decide how you want to approach any situation, that the combination of plasmids 
 and ammo types would give you a variety of major gameplay decisions, that the revolutionary AI 
 would blow your mind and that the completely unscripted nature of every level would make the game 
 totally different on every play-through.
  
  I'm on my second play through, and well, let's face it, basically all of those statements were 
 completely false. The game is EXTREMELY linear, to the point of a giant golden arrow telling you 
 exactly where to go next in every level. Most major events are scripted and the AI is of the charge 
 straight at you and try to beat you senseless type. The only interesting thing the bad guys do 
 is run for water if they are on fire or a health station if they're hurting. Other than that it's 
 basically the same battle over and over.
  
  The weapons feel underpowered the entire way through, and the only plasmid combination that REALLY 
 feels strong is the shock and wrench combo that is introduced within the first 5 minutes of the 
 game. Other then that you'll find yourself desperately mashing keys trying to change plasmids and 
 weapon types while incredibly fast enemies tear into you. Managing to pull off anything interesting 
 is rare and usually accidental, unlike the rube-goldberg type traps Levine was always describing.
 
  
  ... and in my opinion, the vita-chambers absolutely ruin the game. Any sense of tension or terror 
 is lost due to the fact that dying is meaningless. You simply re-appear a few feet from where you 
 died with everything in the same state as you left it. If I were making this type of game, I would 
 have LIMITED quick saves to like 5 per level instead of making them mandatory and constant. However, 
 despite all my **** you're not going to find another game out there with the kind of atmosphere, 
 mood and completely engrossing nature of Bioshock any time soon. Totally worth the money, just 
 not what I was promised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiddenSanctum
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  [Gameplay] 8/10
  The Plasmids and Tonics they provide in this game are quite fun. There are some things I wished 
 they changed (For example the wind plasmid... couldn't be blast the enemy away instead of just making 
 them fly into the air?) . But all in all they were quite entertaining and fun to use, but at the 
 same time typical since they were the typical kind of powers you would find in any magic related 
 game. The game seems like a typical FPS, open this find that, shoot that. Nothing new there. The 
 game also seemed quite easy, there pretty much no big penalty for dying. If you die you automatically 
 get sent to the vitachamber.
  
  [Graphics] 9.5/10
  The game has amazing graphics, the best I've seen (but don't take my word for it I haven't played 
 many FPS) . All the effect are quite realistic which made me quite content. Haven't played any other 
 new games that has come out so I can't really say how it stacks up with other recent games.
  
  [Plotline] 7/10
  What can I say? Its a FPS, it doesn't deliver the same great plotline as 
 most RPGs but its not horrible. The plot is somewhat typical with a twist here and there. I wished 
 they explained a bit more about Adam and Eve and the history of Rapture though. This game has two 
 different endings, a good ending and an evil ending. You get the good ending if you save every 
 little sister you encounter, but if you even harvest one you get the evil ending. I'd recommend 
 you not harvest any of the little sisters because first, the evil ending made me go thats it?! 
 I did all this for that? , the good ending was a lot better. (Maybe I just like happy endings) . 
 Second, like the lady said its worth your while. You get bonuses if you save them.
  
  [Sound] 8/10
  Sounds pretty great, creepy music. All the voices are distinct from one another 
 and match the time period. I felt it was nicely done and the music added to the creepy mood.
  
  [Value] 8/10
  This game doesn't have much replay value. The only replay value I see is if 
 you wanted to mess around with the plasmids and tonics. (For example, go through the whole game 
 using telekinesis) It would of been cool if they added a multiplayer feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8OuttaCompton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  All and all a great game, the bad things are that there is no mutliplayer and the game has no rewards 
 for beating it as in if you beat it, thats it no special wepons or anything, blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 vv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unreal6666
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Spoilers ahead
  
  
  
  
  Finally finished the game on hard!!!
  
  Review, and this is just me and i am nitpicking so take it with a grain of salt.
  
  
  Pros:
 
  
  Extremely well thought out storyline. fascinating story.
  
  Superb musical tracks and voice acting.
  
  Game is extremely graphical and highly pleasing 
 from the texture stand point.
  
  Modeling is awesome and refreshing.
  
  Super nice level designs.
  
  Nice physical effects in game.
  
  Innovative game play mechanics 
 and game gimmicks. (hacking, U-invent, power to the people. Etc)
  
  Reasonable specs for the game.
  
  You do not feel like you die when you do die in the game 
 because of the vita chambers system which is fun.
  
  Cons.
  
  The activation of this game.
  
  Game is extremely linear.
  
  The game is gory and extremely 
 vulgar; I would definitely not let a young person play this game. Not for young kids!!
  
  Tends to be Very repetitive after a while you just fight the same foes over and over.
  
  The 
 control schemes of the game are hard to get used to on pc. Mouse wheel does not help you a lot 
 so you got to really much more on the keyboard than the mouse wheel... you will see this when you 
 start the game.
  
  Weapons feel underpowered against most enemies at start of the game but it gets better as you go 
 further in the game.
  
  Big daddies and little sisters do not seem to be a must essential part of the game at the start 
 of the game but they are so kill as much big daddies as you can to reap the little sisters reward.
 
  
  I hated the fact that you were constantly running out of ammo and had to go around shooting people 
 to get the ammo needed if you wanted to deal with big daddy, again it gets better at the end but 
 it is really frustrating in the first half of the game.
  
  I did not like the circus of value as you were constantly overcharged for what you were getting 
 or you had barely funds to purchase anything to help you out.
  
  Now on to real nitpicking!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Game play mechanics in the game 
 like Bioshock or a trend that I wish did not exists in gaming.
  
  Companies are implementing systems in game to slow the pace of the game deliberately so that it 
 takes longer to complete them so that the customer would not complain about the length of the game.
 
  
  Here are the examples in this game:
  
  Circus of value and the gene banks were game play mechanics that were delaying the overall tempo 
 of the game because you either have to run to the circus of value to get some ammo necessary to 
 continue thru the level and kill ennemies or otherwise you felt stuck only using the wrench to 
 kill enemies and that takes a long time. Sure you can hack those game gimmicks but it slows the 
 game deliberately....
  
  Another example was the plasmids at the start of the game suck real bad because the plasmid slots 
 are very few and you cant get anymore until you kill or save little sisters in the game to get 
 more adam to get more slots for your plasmids.
  
  On to another aspect of the game....
  
  It seems that the darkness factor game play mechanic in doom3 or quake 4 got in bioshock 
 wherein the darkness made the games that much harder and therefore longer because the game would 
 have been too short of a ride otherwise.
  
  Gene banks and circus of value are the same thingthey slow down the game because you need to interact 
 with them and I feel it is kind of a cheat by the developers to make the game harder and longer 
 because they had no other way to make the game longer or it would have been just a regular run 
 of the mill shooter.
  
  It could have been a better system. I would have prefered more stuff on the ground that gave you 
 adam directly on the odd occasion than having to go thru the game play as it is to get the slots.
 
  
  
  Ending is insanely hard if you did not equip your character the proper way.
  
  (spoiler: invest heavily in gaining extra health and plasmid from the start of the game, it will 
 pay off in the end)
  
  Bugs:
  
  I got save bugs on some level that made me lose some in game time and backtracked me in the game.
 
  
  When you were at the gene banks you could not really place your plasmids in the proper order to 
 match your keyboard preference and that really annoyed me!!!
  
  Even with my nitpicking i loved the game !!!
  
  Overall the game deserves the credit it gets 
 and i am glad i bought it and can't wait for a sequel if any.
  
  peace! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryanzbane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock came into the scene with huge expectations seeing as it comes from the franchise that 
 produced System Shock, a classic Sci Fi thriller that kept you scared out of your mind, but craving 
 more. I'm not going to ramble about things that don't matter so let me dive right into the heart 
 of this. Bioshock is an amazingly detailed, beautiful game. The environment is simply remarkable, 
 and I found myself actually staring out the windows into the ocean at the large towering neon signed 
 building that make up Rapture. But as we all should know, graphics alone do not make a game. Bioshock 
 has a decent story that is somewhat intriguing, however I did not find myself very compelled by 
 it, and after a while I really could care less. The enemies in Rapture are genetic mutants fueled 
 by a thirst for adam. I was very frustrated at the lack of diversity in the enemies. You pretty 
 much encounter the same variety throughout the entire game, and is one of the main reasons this 
 game comes close to perfection, but fails. The combat gives you a lot to choose from, anything 
 from crossbows, to pistols, to even a wrench... which surprisingly you can beat the entire game 
 using exclusively. This was another problem I had with the game. You get all these goodies to blast 
 enemies into oblivion... but you can effectively use the very first weapon (wrench) the entire game 
 and not really have a problem. Which brings me to more problems with the game. When you die in 
 Rapture you pretty much get a constant get out of jail free card . When you die you just get revived 
 by the nearest cryotube (I forget exactly what they were called) , with diminished health and eve 
 (mana from which you use your powers) . This lack of punishment for dieing really takes away from 
 the game because essentially you could just continue to die and run back to wherever you were and 
 continue on with no problem. Before I bought the game I heard about the big daddies and how ferocious 
 they were and it would be a really difficult battle when confronting one, however like a lot of 
 things in the game I was disapointed when I easily dropped one with 5 shots of the shotgun. Well 
 I'm going to stop there. I know it seems like I utterly hated this game, but I did have fun playing 
 it, and I do believe the gamespot score is slightly correct, maybe a bit much, but close enough. 
 All in all Bioshock is a good game, that had the potential to be great. This is definetely a game 
 to buy, but don't hold your expectations too high or you might find yourself disapointed. I will 
 admit though... the final boss battle was a lot of fun, and I can't believe they didn't make more 
 encounters in the game similar. Oh well... Bioshock 2 anyone? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyco49
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Ok, don't get me wrong, this is a great game, on the 360. Everything about it is awesome; graphics, 
 game play, originality, etc. BUT IT IS NOT COMPATIBLE WITH A COMPUTER. The people that made the 
 version for the pc are either lazy or incompetent, I cannot decide which. If you don't believe 
 me, check the forums: there are more problems with this game then there were with BF2 or BF2 SF. 
 I would venture to say that this is the most BROKEN game I have ever played. It was DOA from the 
 start: you cannot even get to the menu screen. When you solve that problem, you crash when you 
 start a new game. You then find out that you cannot play this game in DX10 format. Then the sound 
 is terrible, you find this cannot be fixed and you have to deal with it. Then, when you semi-fix 
 the sound, the game lags because you have to turn up the sound settings beyond your comp's ability. 
 Then you get missing textures on the screen. And then, finally, the game crashes every few minutes. 
 Even if they attempted to patch these problems, they would have to completely revamp the entire 
 graphics and sound engines. This is my encounter with Bioshock on a state of the art ASUS g2s laptop 
 running vista with a 2.2 core 2 duo, nvidia 8600m graphics card, and 2 gigs of memory. BUY THIS 
 FOR THE 360, if you have no 360, get crysis, it's coming out within the month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slacker4life77
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  SUMMARY - OK gfx, OK game play, bad guns, plasmids being revolutionary... yea right gets it a 7.5, 
 and for being so over hyped for what it is gets it a final score of 6.5... what a shame...
  
  Well i'd read the reviews, watched a few flicks and thought it would be a nice new game i could 
 play. Got her installed, put all the settings to maximum knowing my PC could handle it. I start 
 the game and the gfx are decent, im thinking it can just get better once i actually see the lightings 
 and other things etc. So i get into the real game finally and the gfx are not up to par with other 
 big titles that have been out or are coming out. COD2 looks better or the same to me. I thought 
 at first i missed some options, so i went back looking for AA and AF filters but there not even 
 there!
  
  ONTO THE GAME!
  
  Anyways i'd been told the story is awesome like your in a movie and the game itself is very refreshing. 
 Well the story wasn't amazing, the gameplay was far from something new. Go here get this to open 
 this then u can move on kind of bull we've seen so many times. And for being FPS the guns in this 
 game are extremely lacking, and on the hardest difficulty i found ammo far and few between. I also 
 though the big daddy fights would be something too talk about... WRONG just shoot it a ton, die 
 a few times, and come back to him where u left off every time, really theres no skill involved 
 u cant not die from most big daddy's. Another thing is the plasmids.. this is nothing new its essentially 
 just magic with its own mana even. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neatfeatguy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock shows amazing graphics and details in DX9; only leaving me to believe that DX10 might 
 be everything that I hears it's cracked up to be.
  
  Every time a new game comes out, people tote on about how amazing the water looks; well, there 
 are no other games that I've played that makes water look so real. It's not overly glossy and it 
 flows over your first person view if you happen to walk under falling water. By far the best I've 
 seen in any game, hands down.
  
  The game play is very well done. All weapons are defaulted to the number keys while all plasmids 
 are defaulted to the F key's (F1, F2, F3, etc) . It is very easy to swap between weapons and plasmids 
 by the use of your right mouse button, and then you can scroll your mouse wheel to swap weapons/plasmids. 
 Or, if you're in a tight spot and need a moment to think about what weapon/plasmid would work best 
 for you, just hit the SHIFT key - this brings up a menu (which pauses the game) and you can pick 
 what weapon/ammo/plasmid you need.
  
  Known issues (possible spoiler info - read at your own will) :
  
  1) A few spider splicers seem 
 to be impervious to my crossbow attacks - the crossbow bolts would sail right through them without 
 causing any harm - probably a clipping issue with the ammo or the model.
  
  2) Bioshock has crashed on me a couple of times - which I find odd because of how well it runs 
 - I haven't even had STALKER crash on me yet.
  
  3) Little Sisters (spoiler!) seem to get stuck under my character when I was playing as a Big Daddie 
 - causing me to slow down. Thus, making the level more difficult then it should have been because 
 I would become sluggish and unable to move well enough to do battle.
  
  4) Electro Bolt 3 - sometimes this plasmid would not stun or cause harm to targets (splicers and 
 bots) - whereas my electric buckshot would stun targets. Perhaps the plasmid isn't as effective 
 as I thought it should be or there is a bug in it somewhere?
  
  So far, I have played through 2 different endings and neither of them have been impressive; leaving 
 me to think that the replayability is kind of low.
  
  The game starts off way too easy and you seemingly fly through the first 1/2 of the game without 
 any issues. If you lack in your research (taking pictures of enemies) the game can get progressively 
 much more difficult then it should be. Some enemies at point-blank range can take several shotgun 
 blasts to the head (hitting targets in the head causes more damage) - or even the anti-personnel 
 ammo takes 3 or 4 shots to take down a splicer. Be sure to take pictures - often! The more pictures 
 you take, the more you learn about your enemies and the more abilities you unlock.
  
  The second 1/2 of the game is rather drawn out and long winded - you have to constantly find 2, 
 3 or even 4 parts of your goal scattered throughout the level - making you backtrack a lot. It 
 grows rather redundant and boring, but at least there is lots of action and the splicers do wander 
 throughout the levels; keeping your on your toes at all times.
  
  The ability to hack (the hack mini-game) is rather easy for the most part, especially once you 
 start to pick up Gene Tonics that help with hacking. It's nice to be able to hack turrets and bots 
 to help protect you, but in all honesty, the hacking mini-game grows boring and after a while it 
 feels more like a chore. Granted, you are allowed to Buyout (spend cash) or use Auto Hack Tools 
 (you can carry up to 5 at a time) to quickly hack things, but it's not enough to keep you from 
 cringing after you have to hack a bot/camara/turret/vending machine or something else for the 200th 
 time.
  
  The atmosphere of Bioshock helps keep the game environment intense at almost every waking moment 
 in Rapture - however, the game doesn't come off as scary as the atmosphere would lead you to believe.
 
  
  The end battle is rather a disappointment and is pretty easy compared to other parts of the game 
 - and I know there are at least 2 different endings. Perhaps there are more, depending on what 
 your actions are throughout the game?
  
  Overall, this is one of the better games out to date for FPS due to its originality, graphics, 
 game play, A. I. and atmosphere. I highly recommend this game to any FPS fan out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimson_axe
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 3, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I know the intro is a bit amiss, but this game reminds me of why I love having my own opinion. 
 Before I go any further, I would like to say that I'm not going to be one of those guys who rates 
 an obviously good game a low score without merit. So let's get right down to it shall we?
  
  Graphics - 8
  
  You've seen the screenshots - it looks good. I've played the game on just 
 about the best graphical settings you can acheive on DX9, and it looks pretty okay. I don't know 
 what all this hubub is about atmosphere, but it's not particularly scary (which I think it's supposed 
 to be) - it just feels like you're running around in a funhouse all the time. A really demented 
 funhouse. Playing through this game is like watching one of those nightmare sequences in Tim Burton's 
 PeeWee Herman movies.
  
  Alright, to be fair, I suppose that's atmosphere enough, and maybe that's what they were going 
 for. But in all honesty, it feels like a test of endurance. It's just a constant flow of the same 
 - and not only does it lose it's luster about an hour into it, but it starts to become a bit annoying. 
 I'm speaking of the art design here...
  
  Sound - 8
  
  Nothing stands out as bad or good. Sure, it has some good (beleiveable) Voice Acting, but at the 
 same time, you're never engaged with anything or anyone long enough to appreciate it. Basically, 
 there is nothing here that is memorable.
  
  Gameplay - 6
  
  The gameplay by itself is good. What isn't good is basically how you always feel you're going against 
 the grain. Seriously, I never once felt like I had a proper footing in the game.
  
  Some people may like this sort of thing, but this just goes back to the Art Department where it 
 just bombards you constantly. The only other game I've ever had this experience with was Half-Life 
 2, but that game at least understood that in a game, there is a time for action and a time for 
 exploration. Bioshock just constantly hits you with everything it has... it just makes you numb 
 to the experience.
  
  I'm always out of health, ammo, EVE, money, compnents.... I'm always struggling to get to wherever 
 I'm going. Which is another thing. I still don't know what the game was about. Maybe I didn't take 
 the time to listen to all the recordings in the game, but to me, that's not very fun. Seems like 
 an easy way of getting out of making some quality cutscenes to me.
  
  Value - 9
  
  There's good value here. You can tell the developers cared about their product. Like I said, this 
 review isn't about how terrible the game is. It's a pretty good polished game, worthy of the $50 
 you spend on it. I just personally didn't enjoy it.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - 5
  
  I'm torn on this title. I admit it did everything right as far as making a successful game is concerned, 
 but I also admit I didn't enjoy it.
  
  TOTAL 7.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlowery
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I don't do reviews, I leave it up to you guys to guide me in the direction of great gaming. But 
 with BioShock I really had to make an exception. I usually stick to RPG's, strategy games, etc. 
 I haven't played FPS in a long time because they were all so derivitive of each other. This one 
 is really unique. The art in this game is fantastic and the enviroments have a great feel. If you're 
 a regular to first person shooters you probably won't be that impressed but if you're new to the 
 genre and like a great story with your game you should do yourself a favor and at least check out 
 the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M4ki
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  For all of you that don't know *yet* what Rapture is, I'll explain a bit. BioShock starts with 
 you experiencing a plane crash in the middle of the Atlantic. As lone survivor, you discover a 
 lighthouse where you go, mostly because there's nowhere else to go, but to also explore the rather 
 odd building in the middle of the ocean. There you discover a bathysphere which takes to the undersea 
 city of Rapture, a technological marvel, especially since the game takes place in 1960. The city 
 has been torn apart by civil war, driven by Andrew Ryan and Frank Fontaine. The game's story is 
 somewhat dull after the first few hours, but it turns out great in the end. Although it lacks the 
 emotional factor that would drive you through Rapture's many spliced up traps, it won't get you 
 bored to have you quit. The story is backed by the great graphics in this game, and I say that 
 because some would say that these aren't the best graphics they've ever seen, which is true, but 
 it bonds very well with the story, the year in which the action takes place, and the feel of the 
 game. You have many options at your disposal in the game. You can modify your body with a dozen 
 plasmids that have up to three levels each, you can use your research camera to take photos of 
 splicers and gain damage bonuses against that splicer class or even unique gene tonics, and you 
 can modify your weapons at a Power to the People stations. The game doesn't look like it's encouraging 
 you to explore every part of Rapture, mostly because of the goal pointing arrow, which won't always 
 be there to help, but if you decide to take a scenic route, it will help you in the journey ahead. 
 The weapon based combat system is not that developed, and not all that great, but it gets the job 
 done. The most rewarding combat system in the game is the plasmid based one. It looks and feels 
 great, and it gives BioShock a different feel from the usual FPS game. The game does have it's 
 share of bugs, ranging from a few sounds not playing sometimes to activation problems (I've heard, 
 I didn't have any sort of activation problem and the game activated in less than a minute) . I did 
 experience some game crashes and one HUD error, but that was mostly because I used the the ForceWare 
 162 drivers instead of the recommended beta ones. As soon as I switched to the beta ones, the game 
 didn't give me any sort of problems and it squeezed a few more fps from my video card. The game 
 is an awesome experience and it's certainly must for anyone who enjoys a first person shooter or 
 a great storyline based game. Updated:
  
  I played through the game again, but this time with the Xbox360 controller. Walking the 'dark path', 
 because I wanted to taste both endings, seemed more natural than with the classic mouse-keyboard. 
 I never thought I'd say this, but BioShock is the first shooter I'd rather play with a gamepad 
 than with a mouse. It's much more relaxing and much more fun.
  As a second update: The first time I played through the game, I spent more than 20 hours exploring 
 almost every part of Rapture, but this time I wanted to make it quick, so I just did what the arrow 
 said, and I made through the game in a little over 10 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Collector619
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  8. You can open all your own jars. ........ ...... ...... ..... .......... ....... ..... ....... 
 ... ..... ..... ... ...... z.................  .......... ................... 
 .............. .......  
 ............. ......... ... zzzzzzzzz........... .............. ........... ........... ... ........... 
  ......  
 ..... z.... ........... z......... ......... ............. z....... ............. ........... ................ 
 ............ ........... .. ............... .............. ............ z.............. ................... 
 ........ ................ z. .......... ...........  ............... 
 .......................... ........... z.. ............ ......... ................ ........ ........... 
 ............. ........................ .......  ........... 
  
 ... .......... z.... .  
 ........ ...... ...................... z ............ ......... .......... ............ z............. 
  .............  zz zz zz 
 zz zz zz zz zz zz zz zz zzzz zz zz zz zz zz zz zz zzzz zz zz zz zz zz zz zz zzzz zz zz zz zz zz 
 zz zz zzzz zz zz zz zz zz zz zz zz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicklech16
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Ken Levines new baby Bioshock can score in a lot of aspects: it offers fantastic Unreal Engine 
 3-graphics which even look great on middle class hardware. It manages to create an atmosphere which 
 really soaks you up into the game - if you play Bioshock you'll fell like you're in Rapture and 
 not in front of your pc! With the several Plasmid-abilities it gives you plenty of possibilities 
 to choose between when it comes to fight your opponents. The architecture of the levels satisfies 
 with a surprisingly great amount of variety and love of detail. Moreover the fights against the 
 Big Daddys are thrilling and also demand a tactical approach.
  Nevertheless Bioshock could be so much more! What kind of story intensity could be there if you 
 would face some of the great developed characters and don't have to search every corner of the 
 level for more or less impersonal audio messages?? What kind of great multi player could be there 
 with all the Plasmid-abilities you can make advantage of in the single player?? What kind of demanding 
 physics-puzzles could be there with all your supernatural abilities??
  Bioshock delivers a truly great experience which is unique in some aspects but forgives a lot of 
 potential in others. Nevertheless it is absolutely a game worth playing for all FPS-fans who are 
 looking for a bit more demand than usual in todays action-genre! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectralmerc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  Sometimes hype manages to crush a game. Sometimes the expectations rocket to the sky, beyond to 
 what the designers had planned. However, in my personal experience, not even my wildest hopes managed 
 to be left unquenched after living through Bioshock.
  
  Decade of the 50s. You are the lone survivor of a plane crash in the middle of the ocean. After 
 surfacing, you find a strange lighthouse. Inside, you find a batisphere (a round submarine of sorts) 
 that takes you to the now crumbling city of Rapture, a place made by the multimillionaire Andrew 
 Ryan so that people may live without any boundary imposed by politics, religion or morality, while 
 enjoying god-like powers through the use of plasmids, which rewrite the genetic code to unlock 
 such powers. However, things arent as idillic as they sound, as greed and corruption has maddened 
 all of its inhabitants, and they are now hunting ADAM, the nectar that powers plasmids. Now, you 
 are tasked with surviving and getting out as soon as possible.
  
  The graphics, powered by the now-everywhere Unreal Engine 3, are outstanding. These are the best 
 water effects ever seen in my gaming experience. Water floods, leaks and splashes realistically, 
 and reflections are life-like. The lighting is excellent, helping to give everything that Neon-esque 
 aspect typical from the 50s. The engine is quite optimized as well. If you have 163.44 beta drivers, 
 you can run it very smoothly, even with a 7300LE. However, the sound is the true winner here. Every 
 enviromental sound has reverb, reminding you everytime that you are under the ocean, increasing 
 the tension already provoked by graphics. The voice acting is spectacular, the best Ive listened 
 on my 14 years as a gamer. The engine is quite optimized. If you have 163.44 beta drivers, you 
 can run it very smoothly, even with a 7300LE. I have a PIV 3.2GHZ (no dual core, mind you) 1.5 
 GB RAM (DDR, no DDR2, mind you) and a GeForce 8600 and I could run it at everything maxed without 
 any hiccups
  
  The gameplay is very fast paced, yet extremely open. The plasmids offer an interesting take on 
 combat, making it possible to combine your weapons (standard pistol, tommy-gun, grenade launcher 
 and so on) with the various effects they produce. For instance, you can freeze an enemy with a 
 plasmid and then shoot it to bits. Or set an oil puddle on fire. Or stun him with the Electro-Bolt 
 plasmid and whack him off with the crowbar. The ways of killing are wide and varied, and is quite 
 entertaining to try new ones everytime you unlock a new plasmid. Weapons are modifiable too, so 
 no weapon gets relegated to oblivion when it isnt powerful anymore. You can upgrade their damage, 
 accuracy and rate of fire, and even their clip size. The game has certain RPG elements mixed in 
 as well, like the fact that you can loot corpses and other containers to get money (used to buy 
 ammo and medkits at vending machines) or the use of tonics. There are three types of tonics (combat, 
 engineering and physical) which are passive and give several bonuses. For instance, engineering 
 tonics make hacking easier (hacking consists on leading a liquid through a series of pipes. By 
 swapping pipe sections you can lead the liquid where you need it to go. Pipe Dream anyone?) , combat 
 tonics give you advantages like damage resistance or a cool electro shield, and physical tonics 
 upgrade abilities like your health gain per medkit and stealth capabilities.
  
  Now, for the quirks. Ive read on Gamespot review about audio issues. I never had one, even though 
 I had a Creative Live! 5.1 that has been discontinued since 2003. I could hear sometimes some sounds 
 were missing but nothing bad. Also, the monster variety could have been better. Of course, you 
 cant expect weird wild creatures on a city under the ocean, but with only 5 types of splicer (mad 
 people desperate for ADAM) it got old a bit fast, though the action compensates. Also, the variety 
 of skins and the fact that there are female and male splicers kinda masks the lack of variety. 
 KINDA. The Big Daddies and Little Sisters (the creatures that appear on the box) are fun to battle 
 at first, but then becomes almost a chore. Big Daddies are extremely tough, and are mini bosses 
 in themselves. Of course, I only played on hard, so that might have something to do with that. 
 Little Sisters present a moral decision: Harvest them (gives you lotsa ADAM to buy plasmids but 
 kills the girl) or Rescue them (gives you less ADAM, but saves the girl) . Is interesting, cuz what 
 you do, affects the ending.
  
  Very minor quibbles: The boss fight might be a little easy, and certain things can get a bit boring 
 out of repetition (harvesting-rescuing Little Sisters, hacking) as well as certain inaccuracies 
 with the map and such. Nothing bad actually. This is a very commendable game experience, a true 
 testament of what good narrative and well made action can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattias838
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is a thrilling and exiting game and has the same chilling feel as F. E. A. R as you play 
 it. Throughout the game you will come across big machines known as the Big daddy's and little girls 
 known as the little sisters, you will have to choose weather you want to save the little sister 
 by realising them from their evil and possessed state or chose a darker path and kill them. Either 
 way you will get a sense of satisfaction when playing Bioshock with the combination of a number 
 of weapons to choose from and special powers that dwell within in genetic code. The story is fascinating 
 to follow and the end with shock you. And with the classical setting and music combined with the 
 world that is Bioshock how can you not like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Since the first footage that Ken LEvine presented i was really interestet in this game it reallly 
 presented a new setting that no other FPS did for a long time .... at first the splicing system 
 wasn't presented bt the modiafiable weapons &amp; A. I. system was allreayd present so it was a 
 real bang ! as you start in the game ... your caracter allmost is nameless hero like the 1one in 
 FEAR .... in fact i just finished the game momments a go &amp; the most important thing that the 
 game suggests is that you were bonr in RAPTURE .... &amp; in the superb momments of the story you 
 will truly have the feeling that after you discover this part you really want to undue what you 
 have done ... so the game is very reaplayble ... in fact i'm sure that i will replay it in 6 months 
 just to seee another ending ... the story is done with hoolywood movies style like The prestige 
 !!!! The backgorund that the game offers is superb &amp; you really felll that the city is alive 
 &amp; the mutated spliced citizens bring out the worst parts in ppl &amp; in fact i think that 
 we in the real world whould react like them in case of some plague or alien invasion ! The weapon 
 gameplay is your standard FPS basic &amp; your splicing abilities are very familiar to those spells 
 from DARK MESSIAH but with 2-3 or three upgrades per weapon or ability ... another thing is just 
 like playin an RPG is the apssive skills withc are very well implemented &amp; the mini puzzles 
 wehn you hack bots &amp; terminals ! The only down side of the gameplay is caused bu the graphics 
 ... alltough it looks cinematic the UNREAL 3 engine was used in a to much colourfull way i really 
 wanted to get scared like in STALKER but because of the colors &amp; some unrealistic effects you 
 wont so don't espect any thrills ... only good gameplay .... in fact the only thrill comes from 
 the big daddy &amp; little sisters in the mommment you face them &amp; especiialy from the story 
 momments withc i think will be different depending on withc path you chose . I was vey satisfied 
 by the game &amp; its allmost the next step in the FPS genre that everyone expected truly the 1st 
 or 2nd canditate in the FPS of the year list ! Play it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wse_jack
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is every bit as well writen as expected from Levine, but generic consolitus sets it behind 
 recent PC shooters.
  
  There is a lot of good in Bioshock, enough to justify the 50 dollar price tag wich is more than 
 most console ports can say, hell more than most games period can say. I wont give away anymore 
 plot details than I have to since the story is the one thing about this game that you can be assured 
 is top notch. A good story these days is hard to come by, and decent acting and dialogue in a video 
 game, expecialy a console port are allmost non existant. Unfortunetly the game still dosent manage 
 to break the generic control and gameplay limitations that most console shooters suffer from, concidering 
 the recent pull of games in the past few years; FEAR, STALKER, FarCry, RIDDICK, (Irational's own) 
 SWAT 4, and many others; Bioshock just dosent add up to the kind of variety in gameplay and advancment 
 in player control that should be the minimum standard for a shooter.
  
  The Graphics are absolutly mind blowing, with only a rather annoying issue with a texutre buffer 
 designed for the 360 that causes loading of the textures to take place after the level or save 
 is loaded, the game not only runs smooth on hardware of 2 years ago, maxed out, but it shines the 
 likes of which has never truly been seen before. I didnt test it on DX10, but you realy dont have 
 to, it may not have the best graphics of any game previous, but with its comic book animated style 
 and U3 effects, its unique and definately amoung the top 5 or so. .
  
  The physics engine is based on Havok, which I must say is probably the best most realistic showing 
 yet, it matches GRAW and FEAR, but because of the way its impleminted, it feels so much more right. 
 For instance, when you kill some one, instead of flying back or stiffening out while hitting the 
 floor or being thrown into the ground by the hit, they stop, then fall unless acted upon by another 
 force in which they act accordingly. An example would be say if you shot a target charging you 
 with an automatic weapon (and your going to need to hold it down the way the recoil works to be 
 most efficiant) , the shot that killed it would stop it, and the next few would flip it in the pivot 
 points that the bullets hit. Because of the ragdoll taking form after the death, the unrealistic 
 feeling that most games have is allmost wholy eliminated. Enersia still counts, say if they jump 
 at you, they will pivot in the bullet that kills them, but instead of unrealisticly being acted 
 upon by the bullet back ward, the bullet more or less closehangers the target, its very cool. .
 
  
  The sound is fairly good, the guns for once are loud, even when you shoot them, the ambient is 
 as chilling as Doom 3 ever got, but it fails when it comes to the voice over. The acting is supberb, 
 but the voice sounds are drowned out by the surrounding noise more often than not, since the game's 
 plot is allmost soley delivered in the same manor that Doom 3's was, missing the radio messages 
 or recorded messages means you miss something about the plot and thats damned unexeptable. .
  
  The combat is the biggest flaw in Bioshock. Shooting breaks down to a .38 revolver, custom 
 launcher, pump-action shotgun, custom chem thrower, wrench, crossbow, some unconventional weapons 
 and potential weapons, and the 1928 model tompson submachine gun. I should note the game takes 
 place in 1960 and what the hell a 30 year out of date gun would be doing in the meca of all technology 
 on earth at the time is a bit of a logic stretch, as is that the .38 revolver does more damage 
 than the .45 caliber tompson. The pistol, bow, and submachine gun have ironsights with a zoom; 
 the bow is like a sniper rifle (ala half-life) , the machinegun has a limited zoom that is worthless 
 since the recoil on the gun is inacted the first shot, causing bursts and taps to shoot far more 
 inacuratly than holding it down which causes the bullets to follow each other around the spread 
 area, and the pistol zoom/ironsight is so moved forward it looks like your not even holding it. 
 Its as if the gun is floating right infront of your nose and in that it looks completly inconsistant 
 with the holding of it when not aimed. .
  
  There are 3 ammos types for each gun, which helps make up for the lack of variety in them, proxy 
 mines and RPGs for the launcher, AP and HP rounds for the bullet fireing weapons, flame and electric 
 tether for the bow, electric and exploding for the shotgun, and the chem thrower has either flame, 
 freeze, or lightning. The wrench only has one function par consolitus (theres no alt fire) but 
 it is so well implemented that you dont realy need more, smacking is probably the best thing about 
 the guns, or at least the most profesional. .
  
  Each baddie takes more than a few hits depending on ammo type and what not, this was probably done 
 to emphesize the super powers that you get in the tradition of the Jedi Knight games. Freezing, 
 shocking, torching, tossing, grabing (and tossing as there is no alt fire) brainwashing, confusing, 
 and pissing off are the gist of things... oh yhea you can shoot bugs (cough, bloodlines ripoff 
 cough, cough...) . This works in pretty much the same way the guns do only different animations, 
 and they work a lot better in a quite unbalanced way. These are purchased with a stemcell based 
 substance called adam at vending machines, of which custom made items, ammo, health, super power 
 juice, weapon upgrades, and tools for hacking the machines can be bought. There are several machine 
 types each with a specialty, some cost money, some dont, all in all they are essential but dont 
 realy make the gameplay any more special. .
  
  Adam is only found by either blood sucking (to death) or removing the thing that creates adam in 
 little children who walk the city and collect adam from the corpses that are piled every where. 
 They are accompanied by a large thing in a diving suit which kills anything and everything that 
 attacks it or gets too close to the child. This is just one of the aspects of sheer repitition 
 in the game, and you will take on the pair over and over and over... a score or more of them, each 
 the same way..
  
  Yes you can pick and choose how you want the death you create to look, but beyond that, there is 
 no more to this game. You fight respawning waves of different looking but exactly the same types 
 of raving baddies. There may be a few clases of baddie but most act the same and each situation 
 plays out pretty much the same. At the very least Doom 3 was scripted to the point that there was 
 a constant change of scenery, this plays out more like some sort of multiplayer arena. .
  
  In defiance of the inovating shooters of recent years, there is no walk key, no corner peaks, no 
 prone (only thing that it gets a pass on due to its design) , no grenade toss, no b*tch slap with 
 the gun butt, you can toss things about but only with a super power that does it with your mind, 
 rather than your hands like in HL2 or Dark Messiah. Run and gun is the name of the game and you 
 will retred the same situation over and over and over. .
  
  To make things clear, this is not an RPG in ANY WAY. Its a traditional shooter in EVERY way. There 
 is no character interaction, no dialogue tree's and very little if at all character development 
 or plot development outside of the linear progression of the story that is told to you. There are 
 ways to boost health, strength and other abilites, as well as a camera which you take pictures 
 of enemies to get bonuses against them, but that dosent make an RPG, role play does and that dosent 
 factor at all into this game. .
  
  All in all this is better and worse than the game which it is most similar too. That game is Doom3, 
 which was fine in its own right, just not FarCry or Riddick which surpassed it in gameplay in every 
 way. The story and writing and dialogue are impecable, as is the acting; The graphics are mind 
 blowing; the effects and phisical enviroment are staggering... but the gameplay is akin to the 
 variety you would see in a porno (ok to be fair a high class porno) and the combat and controls 
 are so riddled with consolitus it hurts. Yes there has been worse, but there most certianly has 
 been better. Games like RIDDICK or Vampire the Masqurade Bloodlines which have akin dialogue and 
 storytelling (Bloodlines above pretty much all) also managed to pull in gameplay that matched. 
 RIDDICk had its combo of incredibly complex player control, combat variety, and character interaction 
 and dialogue; Bloodlines had a full spectrum RPG style game set up with multi pathed plots and 
 character interaction and dialogue which has yet to be matched, as well as a fair combat scheme 
 that was centered around shooter, but based on the stats and ability. Bioshock just has a good 
 story and some stats, which just dont impress me, expecialy if I have to wade through so much repitition 
 and genericy.
  
  Out of 10 I would give this game an 8.5, for the graphics and story, everything else is allmost 
 sub usual. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajoh198
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed about the game is the anti piracy protection. Bioshock has taken this 
 to an appallingly new low. Requiring internet activation to play a single player game is just ridiculous, 
 especially when their servers aren't working and you can't actually play the game! Their support 
 is also completely disinterested, so you better not need any help running the game.
  
  Once running though, the game really grips you and you slowly get more and more information. Although 
 there are still some things referred to that are never really explained or expanded upon. The game 
 is fairly linear in that each level is played in turn, though you can return to a previous level 
 if you want. But in each level you normally have access to 90% of the level straight away so you 
 can explore it however you want which I liked.
  
  The game mechanics itself seemed a little unbalanced, I ran through the game (on hard) barely having 
 to load a save game, things are very easy. And bizarrely the wrench is the most effective weapon 
 against splicers (90%of the enemies) and I found myself using that throughout the entire game. 
 The guns are weak and innaccurate to such a degree it's irratating to use them! So from about halfway 
 through the game I had the maximum amount of money and most ammos.
  
  The plasmids and tonics providing the rpg elements are well balanced and I like the fact you can 
 change them. But the plasmids seem largely novelties. Whilst you can electrocute people in the 
 water, you're really in a position where it's better to do that than beat them round the head with 
 a wrench.
  
  All this said I really enjoyed playing bioshock, it just felt more like an interactive movie rather 
 than a challenging game. Also the last two levels seemed out of place and tacked on. The penultimate 
 level especially felt it should have had some deeper reaching consequences, but it didn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edgewalker16
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  I'd been watching and re-watching every video that came out on Gamespot before Bioshock's release 
 date. My excitement only sky-rocketed once I was playing in the area that I had, until then, only 
 watched. Remarkable, awe-inspiring, revolutionary, a force to be reckoned with; it doesn't really 
 matter what adjective you use to describe this game... they're all true. NOW, let me say this before 
 I actually get started. People have said that the game is glitched to death and, as a result, the 
 game sucked. Well... if you ask me, maybe they should've played it on a computer that met the requirements. 
 I played on a Dell/Vista/2GB/2.16GHz/256MB Graphics and it ran amazingly well. There was the occasional 
 audio bug, but it did ABSOLUTELY NOTHING to hamper gameplay. SO, if you have a decent enough computer 
 that meets the rec. requirements for this game, then PLAY IT! If you don't... then don't write a 
 review or offer your opinion, because you really haven't seen the game.
  
  Ok, my review is as follows: 
  
  Gameplay: Easy to learn 
 and responsive. The addition of plasmids to the conventional (and not so conventional) weaponry 
 only added to the greatness of this game. It took me a little time to get used to switching between 
 plasmids and weapons and switching ammo variants, but once I did the combat soared tremendously. 
 It was quick and exciting with numerous ways to go about the battle. If your like me in that you 
 don't like to die then you'll agree with me when I say, "Vita-Chambers are awesome!" These chambers 
 bring you back to life when you die. However, everything that you have damaged stays that way. 
 I've heard, "that's stupid," "why would they just make it easier every time you die?" Well, it 
 really isn't so bad. I found myself 100% of the time always trying NOT to die, as if the Vita-Chamber 
 didn't exist. I'd use up my health packs and hope that I got out of that battle alive. If you don't 
 focus on the fact that you never really, "die" then you'll enjoy the battles that much more. As 
 far as everything else standard to a FPS goes, it was fluid. Crouching, jumping, small environmental 
 puzzles, weapons, they all functioned well. Btw, you WILL have to kill Big Daddies and you WILL 
 have to make choices that influence how parts of the game play out. Still, no downside here.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Hahaha... what do I say for this? That is was, "amazing!" or maybe, "it blew 
 my mind!" Well, how about this..."I love water." Yeah, it's that simple. Truly jaw-dropping graphics 
 and environments. I always found myself trying to read the bloody messages on the walls or watching 
 the fish outside the window act like... fish. If anyone has watched the demo then they know that 
 you pass through a glass corridor after getting Electro-bolt and while your traveling, the glass 
 breaks and water spills through. Yeah... I just stood there. I watched the ripples and gushes and 
 listened to the water rushing and glass creaking and cracking. Oh... and it was worth every wasted 
 second. You pass under a waterfall and your vision blurs. Realistically, might I add. You could 
 see smoke after firing rounds from your gun, steam out of vents, bubbling lava, fragments blown 
 off a wall if an RPG hit it. Everything. No nook or cranny went un-developed. Story:
  
  I can't get into too much detail without giving anything away. But, you get sucked in. You look 
 at your clock when you start and then when you end and **** it's been 3-4 hours! For a hybrid FPS, 
 it has a REDICULOUS amount of extra areas and items to collect and unlock. The more audio diaries 
 you collect, the more in-focus things become. You eventually find out WHAT, exactly, happened to 
 the people, the city, and the ideology. Finding the hidden diaries around Rapture only helps make 
 it more clear; I don't know how else to say it. Your always wanting to progress farther into the 
 game because you know that bits and pieces of the story will be reveiled. One of the reasons I 
 bought this game was because of the fact that... I'M STUCK IN AN UNDERWATER UTOPIA! HOW AWESOME 
 IS THAT! Audio: Ahh, yes, the double-edged sword. Great for some, horrible for others, and often 
 the "make or break" point of this game. It's been debated that the game shipped with audio glitches, 
 but I've come to suspect that the REALLY SERIOUS glitches only occured on machines that didn't 
 meet the specs. Plain and simple. Anyway, if you've ever played F. E. A. R then you know that sound 
 plays an important role. It sets the mood and tempo of the task at hand. You can hear the distant 
 footsteps of a Big Daddy, or the clanking of a spider splicer as he/she/it approaches you. Hideous 
 laughter and sometimes even somber tales of past lives. Splicers are still human and you will approach 
 some who are talking as if they were with someone they loved or hated. Compelling. Weapons sound 
 realistic and if your hit or hurt then you'll wince and scream. Enemies will act the same way. 
 SOME sounds are a nuisance after a while... like the wailing of a security alarm, but, given the 
 right powers, you shouldn't have to worry about it too much. Overall: I thouroughly enjoyed playing 
 this game almost more than ANY game I've ever played. I've played many. Everything mentioned above 
 combines to form an experience that will keep you emersed for a couple dozen hours (if you take 
 the time to explore) . Anyone who loves RPG's/FPS's or just loves a good game, then check this out... I 
 guarantee you won't be disappointed! (JUST PLAY ON A GOOD COMPUTER!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neil108
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  This IS BY FAR the best FPS i have ever played. The graphics are amazing, just complete DX10 goodness 
 everywhere in this game. The LITTLE sisters, OMG, they will just creep you out, trust me. The sound 
 is amazing, after every little step you feel like this whole wall of water is going to crush you. 
 And don't worry folks, even on my system, i have a 8600gt, game runs FLAWLESSLY, smooth as silk 
 all settings on high. I'm very Impressed with this game. I give 2k games a big thumbs up. I dont 
 know how they pulled it off but they did. The actual particle effects remind me of fear, the AI 
 reminds me of HL2, the story is something that almost no game even has? Most FPS are just run and 
 gun. No real interesting story no intrigue. The actual combat system, it is a sort of hybrid system, 
 it marries the best between traditional shooters, like MOH, and the actual spell casting seen in 
 oblivion. It combines the best of both worlds. What you get is a completely original experience. 
 This may not work for all, as i know some gamers just like shooters , and some just like phantasy 
 role playing games where you cast spells with a certain effect, like lighting or fire-ball. My 
 only complaint is, that the game didn't last any longer. You just get engrossed in rapture. Every 
 little bit, you just want more and more of this amazing place. So at some point it must end, that 
 is my only complaint. But it is a small one. I hope to see some expansion pack in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toron01
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited about this game. The graphics are jaw dropping awesome. The characters are really 
 cool. The level design is great as well as the story. As for if the game was easy or hard that 
 depends on how you look at it. If the fact that you dont have to wait for the level to reload after 
 you die makes it easy, then I guess it was easy. I found it real easy to die all the time, in fact 
 constantly over and over and over. If it wasnt for the vita-chamber I would probably still be on 
 the first level swearing to the heavens above. I became very annoyed with this game after the first 
 couple of levels. The playability of this game is not very good, to put it nicely. It takes like 
 3 days to switch between weapons and during that time your most likely to die if there is an enemy 
 around. The enemies move way quicker than you do. The weapons dont hold near enough ammo to avoid 
 the most certian, death during weapon reload. When confronted with more than one enemy or one big 
 daddy prepare to be grounded and pounded and returned to your local vita-chamber. Weapon upgrades 
 are virtually useless. Sure I expect some difficulty, but come on ! I will not be buying the next 
 one if there is one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiberius_51
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is definitely a good game that's worth playing through at least once. It has a lot going 
 for it in terms of graphics, music, presentation, and novelty. This game looks great with highly 
 polished visuals. Combined with the sound effects and soundtrack (featuring several classic songs) , 
 this creates an incredibly immersive environment that will keep you interested through most of 
 the game. The game controls well an contains a couple of mini-games that are mildly entertaining. 
 That said, this game is not without its flaws. It's too easy for several reasons. First of all, 
 the AI doesn't show any real 'intelligence' as such, opting instead to just bum rush you or step 
 side to side. It is very reminiscent of Timesplitters in its behavior. Second, the 'Telekinesis' 
 plasmid is grossly overpowered. You should be able to pick this up just a couple of hours into 
 the game, and after that, you'll hardly need to touch your weapons or anything except to kill the 
 Big Daddies. Don't get me wrong, it's fun running around the game from very early on with what 
 equates to a gravity gun, but when you can kill almost anybody instantly, it does detract from 
 the experience. Probably the last issue to mention is that, while it is possible to approach combat 
 a number of different ways, you'll quickly find a couple of methods that completely blow away all 
 the others and will most likely not need to try anything different. So while the developers obviously 
 wanted to create a game with open-ended gameplay, some design decisions regarding balancing of 
 abilities and weapon power negatively impacted the final result. Even so, this is still a very 
 fun game to play and is well worth playing at least once or twice through. Just make sure you have 
 a really good PC at your disposal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mewt2021
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for the older gamer who prefers a long story-line and who doesn't care if theres 
 a multi-player. The game-play is fantastic and anyone can easily get into this game through its 
 story. As for its ability to scare the @#$% out of you it gets a perfect 10. The NPCs' are not 
 only insane but how the look is also enough to make you want to turn on a light. the powers and 
 the weapons are a very nice combination of death and destruction, most of the powers can easily 
 be combined with a weapon for a very funny way to kill the splicers- (enemies) . If your still waiting 
 for a reason to get a new computer or a 360, this game is that reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeaselBiggs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I should point out that I feel a little weird writing a review for Bioshock, considering the nature 
 of the comments that will have preceded me. These reactions are pretty much on cue with what I'd 
 expected: equal parts slack-jawed wonderment, more lucid observations and debatable dissapointment. 
 I don't think that there's a single game out there that could possibly garner a homogenous array 
 of reviews. People each have their own opinion and tend to approach games differently based on 
 several things, from personal preference to the performance of their gaming rig.
  
  I feel weird because I think I don't really have the right to side with either one of the main 
 factions here. The game IS gorgeous and the universe depicted is one of the liveliest, most beleivable 
 ones to be offered to us since City 17. At the same time, I'll admit that I was initially dissapointed 
 by the lack of freedom and the relatively limited array of actually useful plasmids and tonics 
 available. The gameplay will instantly be familiar to anyone who's played the System Shock series, 
 so it doesn't quite strike me as being revolutionary. It's extremely well done and what is there 
 is highly enjoyable, but I didn't quite feel that Rapture and its inhabitants left a mark as deep 
 in me as those of, say, City 17 did. Of course, this is all based on personal judgement, and you 
 have the right to disagree with me.
  
  That said, I beleive it IS a solid candidate for a Game of the Year award, obviously because of 
 the attention to detail that's present in every little thing, from Rapture itself to the technical 
 facets of the experience. The amount of research performed to make this Art Deco utopia beleivable 
 must be staggering, and Irrational has succeeded in making you feel like you've stepped into a 
 place where time has stopped in the early fourties, where flappers and zoot suits aren't so far 
 behind and where that sort of timeless, clich&eacute; but nevertheless cherished vision of the 
 fifties' United States still exists.
  
  Technically, the game is more than impressive. I needed to try out the game on a friend's rig to 
 see its full potential, as my personal computer only caters to the lowest possible graphic settings. 
 I can crank up a few things higher but as soon as I do, the game plods down at five frames per 
 second whenever there's an enemy onscreen and has a tendency to crash. This might seem odd, but 
 I think that overall, the optimization effort performed on Bioshock is highly commendable. The 
 fact that my five year-old rig can actually manage to run the game hits at the developers' and 
 the publisher's desire to offer their product to more than just the high-end junkies. It's reassuring 
 to see a developer take great care in this respect, especially if you've read my Titan Quest review. 
 I was sincerely dissapointed at the overall lack of optimization on that particular offering.
 
  
  Beleive it or not, you can still get sucked into Rapture's atmosphere even on exceptionally crappy 
 detail settings. I'll have to admit, however, that I didn't find the whole experience to be quite 
 terrifying. Irrational clearly stayed with the formula that had spelled System Shock 2's success 
 and even back then, with limited shadowing or shading capabilities, the game simply OOZED a sense 
 of threateningness that I found to be lacking in Bioshock. The lighting was there, the shadows 
 were there, the effort and the atmosphere were there, but somehow, it just didn't click. That's 
 not really a criticism and more a statement, but the fact that the Splicers were still essentially 
 human prevented me from being afraid. I'm the type of guy you can lop in a tactical shooter and 
 that'll proceed ahead fairly clumsily as most newbies would, but that won't quite feel sucked in. 
 On the other hand, seeing System Shock 2's infected humans, hearing their studio-tweaked gibberish, 
 or seeing Doom 3's lot of infernal creatures terrified me much more. I'm the type of person who 
 needs to be faced with utter inhumanity to be scared. The splicers, to me, were nothing but desperate 
 junkies begging to be put down. Mind you, that's not necessarily a bad thing. Not being scared 
 allowed me to concentrate on surviving and on enjoying the story as if unfolded around me. For 
 that reason, I'm actually glad the game took a more muted approach to survival horror. Even the 
 slow, dumb thumps of the Big Daddies didn't impress me much. The game's flawless on the audio department, 
 but it's just that personally, it was just a gorgeous collection of useful audio cues and not a 
 component of the environment of a utopia gone to Hell, where death awaits at every turn.
  
  Speaking of audio, the voice characterizations, as said in the official review, were perfect. I 
 beleived in Atlas (no, no spoilers will be given!) , I beleived in Tenembaum, Suchong, Steinman 
 and the others. If I had to pick favourites, I'd go for Sander Cohen on a heartbeat. The flighty, 
 artistic, psychotic and yet perversely sympathetic nature of the character won me over immediately. 
 I so very much loved filling his hide with buckshot, in the end, even if the reward was a bit paltry...
 
  
  Other than Cohen, however, I'm amazed at how Ryan was, thankfully, thoroughly beleivable. The game 
 makes it very clear that he had great and benevolent dreams, but that the taste of power as well 
 as prodding from situations out of his control pushed him over the edge. You get the feeling that 
 Ryan's become much like Orson Welles' character, in Citizen Kane . That is, holed up at the top 
 of his ivory tower, technically surrounded by ruins and a general sense of loss, but with a total, 
 absolute control over them. Rapture, to me, seems like an allegory of Capitalism pushed to its 
 wildest, unabated extremes, where absolutely everything goes in the name of personal gain and advancement 
 and where promises of a better, radiant future serve as both bait and pacifier for masses of undecided 
 or brainwashed citizens.
  
  As far as the story goes, however... It was okay, but I expected every turn, every twist, because 
 the structure is obviously similar to that of System Shock 2, where the benefactor that guides 
 you through the first half of the adventure ends up being a facade behind which the real antagonist 
 was hiding (oops, spoiler!) . Does it remind you of anything? Plus, the whole idea of your character 
 (Jack) being subjected to mental control is similar to how SHODAN, the villainess in SS2, outfitted 
 you with cybergear precisely because she needed you to be receptive. Generally speaking the story 
 was quite solid, but you shouldn't expect any jaw-dropping twists and turns. Fun surprises abound, 
 but nothing that'll leave you amazed at the skill of Irrational's scriptwriters (as in scenario, 
 not computer code) . Let's just say they needed something functional, and provided themselves with 
 that. That's all there is to it.
  
  The biggest, most important letdown of the experience, however (I'm surprised I almost left it 
 out) is the DRM management incorporated in the game. To the uninitiated few, Bioshock is copy-protected 
 using SecuROM, a method that forces you to authenticate a serial number with a remote server during 
 installation. Each serial number was initially given two installs only but following some massive 
 outcries from angry customers, this number was increased to five installs on five computers. Five 
 by five equals twenty-five. Sure, this sounds like a reasonable amount of installs, but since when 
 does limiting a paying customer's right to USE the product he bought count as a valid step against 
 piracy? I like to uninstall games when I'm done with them and to pick them back up months or sometimes 
 years later. I'll still be able to do that, yes, but at 25 installs maximum, this means that there 
 will be a time, far off in the future, where my copy of Bioshock will simply refuse to install 
 itself. By that time, SecuROM's servers could have dissapeared or the game could be impossible 
 to find. Not to mention that whoever will sell his or her copy will have very few install slots 
 left.
  
  Simply put, I love the game, but I'll confess I'm downloading a cracked version as I'm writing 
 this, and that I'm considering to sell my legal copy. I don't feel bad mentioning this because 
 I've already paid my legal fifty bucks for the game and therefore already have encouraged and congratulated 
 Irrational by way of my wallet. As far as I'm concerned, as a consumer, my duty is done. I don't 
 feel like waiting for a revoke tool to be released, and I'm not comfortable with having undeleteable 
 registry keys lying on my hard drive. 2K Games' site precises that Bioshock does not install a 
 root kit, but grafting a permanent registry entry seems to come very close to actually doing so, 
 in my mind's eye...
  
  It's also pretty much to what there is of this review. To sum it up, I'd say you should buy it, 
 if only for the atmosphere, great storytelling and attention to detail. On the other hand, if you're 
 expecting an innovative story (and not the storytelling proper) , a gripping FPS experience or an 
 Action/RPG hybrid on par with the first Deus Ex, you're probably going to be a tad dissapointed. 
 The universe doesn't feel as free as the initial demos conveyed (which is understandable) and the 
 promised ability to roam freely is pretty much lacking. I fail to see how I'm going to be able 
 to have a second run at the game without sticking to the same plasmid and tonic array by default, 
 for instance. The game literally runs on rails, but on rails that are masterfully crafted and well 
 handled. It's up to you to decide if you think it's a good thing or a bad thing.
  
  So... Yeah. It's a wonderful game, but does it send me to the metaphorical Xanadu of gaming? Mmmm... 
 Not quite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zabadack
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  To start with I liked this game, yeah it's not as good as the hype but it has it's moments that 
 scare you, freak you out, get the adrenaline pumping.
  
  The problem is when you market a game as a freeform experience that nobody will play the same it 
 leaves itself open to criticism from the start,
  
  Graphics.
  Pretty, is the one word I think that can describe it, there are some effects that are overdone 
 and make it less impressive. If you walk under some water your entire screen goes wobbly like you've 
 been drenched in water, even if there was a slight trickle down the side of a wall. ok it's pretty 
 we get it, but too many effects make it look worse in some cases.
  
  8/10
  
  Sound.
  there's a lot of atmosphere throughout the game, the little girls chatting away about angels at 
 the same time as being cute add a hint of spookiness (F. E. A. R and The Shining seem to be a big 
 influence)
  In game music isn't really music you get the odd horror movie sound, there are some phrases that 
 the enemies say that are scary at first but repetitive by the end of the game, there are only so 
 many times you can hear I didn't touch her before you start believing that everyone in rapture 
 was a little bit mad before the splicing.
  
  7/10
  
  Longevity.
  Not very much, bioshock is a fairly easy game to complete and with no multiplayer (which is a real 
 shame considering the options in combat)
  the real problem is that you could complete the game by basically walking up to every group of 
 enemy's killing one letting them kill you then resurecting at the nearest vita-chamber (never more 
 than 20 seconds away) coming back killing another.. rinse repeat. 5/10
  
  Gameplay. Well if you've read this far I guess you want to see what I say.
  It's good, it's fun. 
 there are options to kill people that you'll want to test out.
  Unfortunately the problem is you'll be so busy testing out your killing options they'll usually 
 end up getting you killed, so you find yourself more often than not deciding to use a selection 
 of maybe 2 plasmids and 1 gun for the splicer and 1 for the big daddies.
  
  The bugs are the real problems, not so much bugs but annoyances. enemies will often hit you behind 
 a wall, the big daddy's can sometimes kill you by accident when you have the mind controlled. Yes 
 I died more in this game getting hit by a Daddy that I was in control of than I did when they were 
 attacking me. The telekinesis plasmid, raved about in all the trailers you can catch a grenade 
 and throw it right back at them! well i hope you're doing it in an empty room because if not you're 
 likely to pick up a trash can and stand there holding it while a grenade flies in your face,
  
  The tripwire crossbow bolts, you can pick up the end of it with telekinesis! if only they didn't 
 randomly discharge themselves, oh and by the way if you happen to be in control of a big daddy 
 and it does so, the big daddy will be hit and instantly be offensive to you. nice so you get hit 
 by the bolt then a smack from a big daddy... can you say vita chamber?
  
  the big daddy's also won't move out of the way, this can actually make you fail certain objectives 
 at some points since they're time dependant.
  
  the game is fun however and there were some moments that even made me pause the game because I 
 was crying with laughter (a splicer pretending to be asleep jumps up shouting AHA! as I hit it 
 with the fire plasmid, she runs off shouting OW WOW OWOWOW a moment that even had people in the 
 room laughing)
  
  the only real problem it has is, it's repetitive, the whole game is pretty samey and after a while 
 the enemies have more health, it almost seems like the developers realised the vita chamber easyness 
 toward the end so they made certain enemies respawn. it just get boring.
  
  but then... name a game that doesn't.
  
  7.5/10
  
  If you don't agree with this review 
 it's up to you i've played it through to the end and this is how it felt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atheno
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I realize so many reviews are made for a game, so this might be over doing it, but would you kindly 
 read on?
  
  Graphics and the World-9
  
  The game starts off well enough, throwing you into a world that you haven't really seen before, 
 and underwater city. Usually games borrow off of what others have built, and just build upon it. 
 BioShock goes in a different direction but still just watch, in a few years we will probably see 
 another game in an underwater world. The setting is well carved, beautiful to look at, and engaging. 
 This is a very rare feeling you get when playing video games and the only other FPS that has made 
 me feel so deep in the world was Half-Life 1, not so much Half-Life 2. If you have a PC with the 
 newest thing-a-ma-bobs then you will surely enjoy this game just for the graphics alone. This is 
 one of the other things I wanted to touch on, the optimization.
  
  I am happy to announce that this game runs fine even on a Nvidia 7200 with 256 Vram, 2 gigs of 
 ram, and an AMD Turion 64X2 mobile processor. Yes this game was played through completely on a 
 medium spec Laptop and ran beautifully. Also with windows vista.
  
  Music-9
  
  Ah, what can I say about the lovely sound track? It fits nicely into the game for once, which is 
 a nice surprise. It doesn't feel out of place but if I had any problem with the music, it would 
 be that there isn't enough of it. It seems like most of the time you are running around in Rapture 
 doing your thing, you have no music to assist you. Well this is not something the game really needs, 
 it would be (IMO) more enjoyable.
  
  Sound-10
  
  This is about the sound, not the actual music tracks. The sound FX's are just... I don't know. You 
 can tell they put a lot of work into it. Everything from reloading, stepping, turning, Big Daddie's 
 foot steps, wrench smacking, cold throwing, fire blasting, electric zapping, its just pleasurable 
 for the ears. If you have a decent sound system then by god your going to be lost.
  
  Game play-9
  
  Mm this is where I might get attacked, but before I go any further let me note 
 that I had an enjoyable time with BioShock, no doubt about it. But is the game play perfect? The 
 depends on YOUR idea of perfect. Well the game play, on paper, is ground breaking, I found it a 
 bit to much to maintain all of your tonics with only 5 or so slots. I felt in some situations I 
 was missing some powers that I could have used and the nearest machine that allows me to switch 
 up feels like it's miles away. It just feels like your missing out, but is this problem making 
 the game unplayable? Not a chance. The game is still hellafun. It maintains a 9 score because of 
 the fact the game is pretty easy to pick up and go.
  
  Story- 8
  
  I am no fanboy, so I did not give this game perfect all around. This game has flaws just like any 
 other game. This games biggest flaw in my opinion was the story. It is deeper then most games trust 
 me, so it's not like it's the worst story to ever be created, but also it seems to be lagging behind. 
 On a game with poor game play this story would shimmer like gold, but this story lags behind because 
 everything seems to much more. The story is simple, once you peel away all the shinies you will 
 realize all your doing is collecting things, running through hall ways, just like any other FPS 
 but it seems just so repeatitive after awhile.
  
  (Slight Spoilers about the ending quality below!)
  
  The ending was in words, pathetic. What 
 was that? A 20 second clip? Your telling me I played this game for that? I might seem a bit picky 
 right now but I want at least an ending that makes me satisfied I just did all this crap. Once 
 again this is my opinion, but wow the ending really leaves me wanting more. To me, the ending is 
 one of the most important aspects of a game. It leaves you with either a good after taste or bad. 
 Mine was bad. Will I play BioShock again? Sure in a few months or maybe next year but not right 
 now. But after saving all the little sisters I just wanted something more then to see my guy die 
 of old age.
  
  (K Spoiler done)
  
  Anyway that was it, I do not have an OVERALL score, the numbers beside the topics is my review. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_boulanger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best looking title I have seen in a few years. The visuals and the sound 
 effects are simply amazing and create such an environment that you actually wish you could see 
 it in reality.
  
  But once the amazement is passed, you are left with an very ordinary FPS. The story is predictable, 
 and does not have much depth to it (except for the fact that you are in a city at the bottom of 
 the ocean) .
  
  You have your guns, your magic (it's called plasmids) , your basic upgrade (guns, magic, character) , 
 a few puzzles (lock to be opened) , the choice between playing bad boy (killing everything) or hero 
 (saving the girls... literally) , and a lot of bad guys to kill. Nothing more, nothing less.
  
  I did not encounter any technical problems with it. I am probably one of the lucky ones that 
 did not have any problem installing the game. However, I still don't understand why the company 
 forces the users to activate the game at installation AND have the DVD in the drive to start it.
 
  
  For FPS fans, this title is highly recommended. But if you want a little more depth to the story, 
 something that looks more like an action/adventure, you should look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LagAssassinVash
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Definitely one of the best games Iv played in a long time. So many ways to play, you could play 
 the game as a plasmid junkie, wrench junkie, or a bang bang junkie. The game lets you play in your 
 own way and lets you make some key decisions that effect the outcome. The 1960's setting gives 
 this game a different feel then some run of the mill city like New York or Chicago. The story is 
 also quite gripping, it keeps you wondering, and it also has some clever twists. The one thing 
 its missing is multi-player, if it had that this could be a perfect 10.
  If your looking for a rich single-player experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacksheep998
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid FPS game but thats about all it is. The graphics are very nice and the atmosphere 
 is amazing, but we were promised a FPS/RPG hybrid game with an open world and an immersive storyline. 
 I was expecting something like a 1960's, underwater, mad scientist version of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. or 
 Oblivion, and what I got was a 1960's, underwater, mad scientist version of Doom. I don't want 
 to say the game is bad. I do like FPS games and this is a good FPS with a good story, but by no 
 stretch of the imagination is this game revolutionary or game of the year material and in no way 
 is it an RPG.
  
  Other Thoughts:
  I had serious problems with the DRM in this game. My copy failed activation on both my and my friend's 
 comptuer. I ended up using the activation bypass crack to play it. When a paying customer has to 
 crack the game to play it thats a sign of a bad DRM system.
  
  Why dont the splicers have powers? Werent they supposed to be abusing plasmids? shouldnt at least 
 some of them have some powers?
  
  The vita chambers make the game a little easy, particurally with their placement. Instead of reviving 
 you they should just be Autosave points. The game saves when you pass one and reloads there and 
 you are set back somewhat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quake89
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Rapture, LOL, this games has everything u would ask for , just great, the AI is amazing 
 and the graphics are gorgeous using unreal enbgine 3, same one that bring to life gears of wars, 
 r6 vegas and splinter cel double agent, directx10 effects are so nice that looks like u r playing 
 the real thing, the most original game i've ever played, the way u use the enviroment to survive 
 Rapture city its a great plus, plasmids use is just great also , aaahh what can i say this game 
 is perfect, bought it on the release day and i've just beat it up, cant wait for the sequel tho 
 this great title. Definitely a MUST HAVE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dare
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  The kind of tired genre of first person shooters gets a face-lift (no pun intended) A wonderfully 
 warped disturbing and actually funny shooter with the addition of rpg elements and stimulating 
 puzzles. I found myself running low on ammo however at critical times, which makes it really hard 
 to bring down the big daddies. The atmosphere is apropriately creepy and clausterphobic, The music 
 is perfectly suited to the environement and the overall color and art deco look ties it all together. 
 This is the shooter I was waiting for! you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you 
 will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review 
 in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the 
 posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS2_PC_FAN
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is a game everyone must try whether they're new to shooters or expert at shooting. This 
 game is weird but in a good way, its plot is interesting and graphics are eye catching. Once you 
 start playing this, you wont stop until you complete the game and realize how fast time went by 
 playing. The game will keep you wandering around Raputure killing enemies and solving puzzles
 
  all the way through. Then after you beat it you'll start playing again going to places you missed 
 finding new ways to kill your foes with Bioshock, the game just plays and replays itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  well its been 2 days i had the game, i haven't finished it yet though, still half-way, BIOSHOCK 
 have had a lot of hype but i'm not one to give in
  until i try it and decide myself, got burnt far too many times with so called
  GREAT games that 
 ended up totally crap. :)
  
  here's my review
  
  *Graphics* - The game's graphics are mostly high quality, excellent lighting
  effects, bumpmapping 
 and if you use the DX10 features it looks even better
  but in DX9 mode it still look great.
  i'm playing 1280x1024 maxxed out on my 8800GTX and C2D 
 E6600 cpu
  and runs perfect, the lowest framerates are 35fps and average 50-60fps.
  
  the game dont support Antialiasing, but if you have a 8800 card you can
  set it in your nvidia 
 CP (override and choose 4X or 8X) , there will be
  a performance hit but honestly it isn't very noticeble on these monster
  cards. also the game 
 make full use of Dual/Quad core cpu for the HAVOK engine and gives a great boost.
  
  However some of the graphics such as when looking outside a window
  and some objects/animations 
 in the world are a bit lower quality and feel
  a tiny bity consoley even though Bioshock isn't really a console game.
  it feels like CONDEMNED 
 : Criminal Origins vs RIDDICK , at times it feels
  the engine is a blend of both only a bit sharper.
  
  The character animations are good overall 
 but not excellent, during in-game
  cutscenes they look awesome but when someone dies it looks slightly overdone like Oblivion IV, 
 you won't find F. E. A. R or MAX Payne kind of animations here, developers should learn to not overdo 
 the Havok engine
  or it get silly. :)
  
  *Sound* - Most of the atmosphere is sound wise, and it shines, i highly recommend a 5.1 speaker 
 set or even better high quality Headphones!
  enable reverb and EAX you gonna love it, also character voices are great.
  music is well done 
 and generally very immersive (and scary at times) .
  
  *Gameplay* - Technically speaking there is nothing we haven't seen before in other FPS games, you 
 crash with a plane and end up underwater in a city underneath with monsters, zombies and robots, 
 it is a lot of fun but can be a bit boring if you dont like to explore and want 100% action.
  Exploration is the word here, i love the game because it is immersive and
  well presented, shooting 
 is well done, using Plasmid (had magic like electroshocking) is also great.
  
  you will enjoy the game if you just let yourself go with it and it will scare you in various places.
 
  
  *Conclusion* = i highly recommend BIOSHOCK, definetely one of the best games of late.
  
  MUST BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daeftan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  I just wanted to write this review to dispel a sentiment going around that this game offers something 
 more than a first person shooter. It doesn't. Bioshock is an FPS pure and simple. Unfortunately, 
 before I bought it, I read some hype reviews that were saying that the game is the best of an action 
 RPG and FPS all rolled into one. I have no idea what those people are thinking. Unfortunately this 
 notion spoiled my experience somewhat. I have been really looking forward to the someday truly 
 hybrid games where they are both RPG and FPS... this one ain't. The plot is completely linear (run 
 thru the hallway and shoot) and once I got into the game (3-4 hours) and clearly saw all the interactions 
 and gameplay, it became clear that this was just a really good member of the FPS genre. Maybe the 
 fact that there is a vendor here and there in the game to buy stuff fooled some people. No hybrid 
 genius here.
  
  Nonetheless, Bioshock is a really quality game. If you liked Half-Life 2 and F. E. A. R. then this 
 is worth the $50 for the ride. Graphics are well-done and the undersea atmosphere is very cool. 
 The action is continuous and mindless, but overall very entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willross2007
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Everything in this game is great. Well worth the money.
  The only thing that could make it better would be multilayer.
  
  Bioshock is going to raze 
 the bar for future First Person Shooter games Because of its innovations. Great RPG sense with 
 leveling your self with Different plasmids &amp; tonics. The AI in the game is great as well and 
 it levels with you so the game stays challenging.
  
  The enemies look and move great, very creative because some of them Big Daddies will actualy worn 
 you before they attack as well. Which is nice in case you are not ready to take on a big steal 
 beast.
  
  The setting in Rapture is wonderful to look at and has a very different Sci-Fi design concept.
 
  
  If you like First person shooters you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prenloe
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is a solid and entertaining game that may be the best first-person shooter of the year. 
 It also comes close to living up to its promises: a feat that many games this year have failed 
 to do.
  
  Graphics: Roleplaying elements aside, Bioshock is first and foremost a first-person shooter. Graphics, 
 while important to any genre, are vital in first-person shooters. With that said, Bioshock delivers 
 with beutiful, well-rendered environments that do an excellent job of portraiting a 1960's era 
 futurisitic underwater city (yes, I do realize what I just said) . I didn't notice any problems 
 during my playthrough, but that doesn't mean that there aren't any.
  
  Sound: Unfortunately I was forced to play through the game using headphones, however, Bioshock 
 sounded great despite the diminished hardware. I did have to tinker with the sound settings so 
 that I could hear dialouge over environmental noises and the initial settings make combat far too 
 loud. None of these problems weren't repairable by a few easy and minor in game sound setting adjustments.
 
  
  Controls: The game provides very basic PC first-person shooter controls. I ended up ditching the 
 right-click method of switching between my weapons and plasmids in favor of individual number and 
 function keys. In the end, Bioshock doesn't do anything to disturb the norm.
  
  Gameplay: 2k Boston advertised that there were hundreds of ways to play the game. To be honest, 
 I'm not certain that it true, however, Bioshock does lend itself to creativity. With that said, 
 you can certainly play through the game as a regular shooter and rely upon your weapons and a few 
 basic plasmids, however, there are many ways to accomplish the same feat. A brief example: Lets 
 say there is a splicer (the basic enemy in Bioshock) . You can shoot him with a gun, use telekinesis 
 to throw burning debris and catch him on fire, forcing him to run into water where you can electocute 
 him. These small alterations to gameplay provide hours of endless fun.
  
  Story: Before you fret, I am not about to spoil anything. The story is largely conveyed through 
 taped recordings, a la Doom 3's email system. You can also interpret many events from your surroundings. 
 Overall, Bioshock does a good job at sheparding the reader through a storyline and provides a few 
 unexpected plot twists. Conclusion: Bioshock is well worth your time and money, even if you do 
 not normally enjoy first-person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrior01
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to first person shooters, the storyline is more often than not superficial and it 
 takes a back seat to the combat. While this usually makes for a fun, albeit less compelling experience. 
 However, when a game is able to blend a deep story with innovative and interesting combat, people 
 take notice.
  
  BioShock shines with its ability to draw the player in to its impressive world, complete with the 
 myriad subtleties and clues that further facilitates this deeper connection with the player. In 
 other words, BioShock is no generic shooter. The game integrates impressive visuals with clear, 
 ambient audio and pitch perfect voice acting. Nevertheless, every game has its weaker points...
 
  
  The combat in BioShock is for the most part fun and entertaining, allowing for a wide variety of 
 strategies and tactic in dealing with the crazed citizens of rapture. However it still manages 
 to harbor a couple areas of concern. AI: I found that the various splicers' (enemies) methods of 
 combat were generally predictable, which made for a somewhat repetitive combat experience. Incidentally, 
 as long as the player does not become repetitive in his or hers methods of attack, combat from 
 a replay value increasesdramatically. Diversity: While the variety of enemy types wasn't as great 
 as I had hoped, its still was enough to remain interesting. There also could have been more models 
 created for various types of splicers. I also found that spectrum between being normal (no genetic 
 mutations) and crazed (rampant genetic mutation) did not vary enough. I would have liked to see 
 some enemies communicate more, or at the very least lead you into ambushes. Finally, its important 
 to address the area of difficulty in BioShock. BioShock allows much freedom, as previously stated, 
 in interacting with the environment (enemies included) . Difficulty largely relies on the way you 
 choose to handle a situation. Basically, it is up to you whether you want it to be a cakewalk, 
 or frustrating, heart pounding journey. While the vita-chamber can be seen as dramatically reducing 
 the games difficulty (damaged enemies do not have full health upon resurrection) , it can also keep 
 the game fun. You can always opt to load a saved game if your revulsion to the chamber is high. 
 Also the addition of the quest arrow allows for reduction of frustration when used sparingly. In 
 my experience the chamber and the arrow do more good in keeping the game fun than harm in being 
 too helpful. In conclusion, BioShock is a worthwhile game complete with a compelling, story and 
 an amazingly interactive environment that is limited only by you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viatridis
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  i haven't seen many horror/action video-games like that.. you know when you are playing a horror 
 video-game after some time you get bored because there always the same enemies and the same ways 
 to defeat them But BIOSHOCK has so many different ways you can defeat your enemies, such a realistic 
 atmosphere that you think that your room is in Rapture too the underwater city and you are so connected 
 with the main character that you are ready to through electricity from your left hand...!!. LOL!!!
 
  The scenario is really good because we haven't seen something similar before as an underwater 
 city in the mid-60's...
  What also impressed me is that all the atmosphere, the advertisements around the walls, the guns, 
 the scuba diving suits, the music are all like there were Copy-Pasted from the 60's to this video-game 
 .. they look so alive like you live in the 60's too.!!!!
  
  That's all for now.... Thx for reading and .. Excuse me for my not so good English!!!!
  
  Keep 
 Video-Gaming !!!! Namaste and good luck!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoragArkadia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  BioShock is one of those titles that does in the gaming industry what the iPhone has done in the 
 cell phone industry, namely, up the ante. Beyond a great presentation the game design is phenomenal. 
 Each room and section of Rapture comes complete with its own unique designs and ambience. First 
 person shooters are a dime a dozen so its important that a new game can not only stand on its own 
 but more so contribute to a well established genre, BioShock does both equally well. Hand to hand 
 combat is frantic and engaging. The action feels right and the enemie present a fair challenge. 
 If you own a 360 and have been waiting for another GOW type visual orgasm experience then BioShock 
 will complete the task for you. This is quite simply one of the best looking games to date on the 
 360. If you don't buy it (there is no multiplayer after all) then this is definately a must rent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w0rmy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  Bioshock isn't a great shooter but killing stuff isn't what makes Bioshock great. I've been waiting 
 a long time for the perfect blending of a first person shooter and a role playing game. Bioshock 
 is oh so close to the game I've been waiting for but doesn't quite hit a bullseye. Unquestionably, 
 more time should have been spent on the combat system. Plasmids can be very fun to use but gun 
 play can feel a bit unsatisfying at times.
  
  The choices and character building in the game really make you feel the need to try lots of different 
 things. At times the choices can slow the game play a bit but that's the trade off for a game that 
 doesn't force an identical experience on every player.
  
  If you're looking for a balls to the wall action game, Bioshock is not going to be for you. The 
 focus is far more on story than on big explosions and killing bad guys. It's a compelling storyline 
 that really has you on the edge of your seat and has some excellent plot twists.
  
  As for the tech glitches some have had, my system runs Bioshock perfectly at 2560x1600 and all 
 the eye candy on. However, I'm still on XP so I can't speak for Vista.
  
  Bioshock isn't perfect but I promise you, this is not the last in a new type of game - the RPFPS 
 (Role Playing First Person Shooter) . Games like this one and Vampire a couple of years ago are 
 laying the ground work for a whole new type of interactive entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casper008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  silly activation must have internet. only allowed 2 activations, (2 times then what) ? trash? must 
 have dvd in drive to play. must install securom crap. i had to use dameon tools and an image file 
 just to put the dvd away in a safe spot. i hate having to play a game, look for the dvd insert 
 and play (no) . i like just click on icon and play, not searching for dumb dvd which i have so much 
 junk around my pc i can't seem to find anyway,. :) . xxxxx. xxxx x xxxxxx. x xx xsxsxx/x ssx xx/x 
 sxsxsx/x sx sx sx /sx sx sxs /sx s xsx /x sx sx sx s/x sx sxs xs xs/ xsx sx s/ x s/xs/x s xsx /sx 
 sx/ s/x sx /s/ xsx /s /xs x//s xsx sx/ s/x s/x /x /sx s/ x/s x/s/x s/ x/sx/ s/ x/s x/sx /s/ x/x/x//xx/x/ 
 x/x//x/x /x/ //x/sxx xx /x/x xx x . xs xs xs .xs xxx x sx s. x sx xsx .sx s. x sxs xsx .sx s. x. s 
 sx s. xsxsx s. xx s x. s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  Gameplay Video...
  
  http://media. putfile. com/moooop
  
  
  When i first saw all these amazing 10/10 reviews coming in for Bioshock i thought "great" i need 
 a new System Shock 2 or Half-Life to play after these couple years of no good single player FPS 
 shooters. So because of all the hype my expectations were very high and i wanted nothing short 
 of perfect like the reviews were telling me. However not only did i get just a slightly above average 
 shooter but also it was only about 8 hours of Single player gameplay and no Multiplayer, left me 
 feeling "why did i waste my money on this?" so not impressed.
  
  The game starts off well with a nice cinematic opening then being dropped into the water, however 
 i didn't like how you can't swim or see under the water. Then you'll go on a like Mini Half-Life 
 tour of outside the city which is let down by the short length of it and the underwater fog which 
 is disappointing to see. It's a real big shame that this was the best part of the game and it wasn't 
 a 10/10 start tooo.
  
  The problems and letdowns then just fire at you and while you see some nice scripted events non 
 of this stuff happens live in the game which makes you feel that the developers wern't tellign 
 the truth on alot of things. It kinda reminds me of PM and his Black and White 2 game or Fable 
 with the bragging about what the game will do and then it plays nothing like that. You'll hear 
 throughout the game and in interviews with developers that it's a living city and people will be 
 going on with their lives in it, so the levels wont stay empty for long. Noones getting on with 
 their life though they'll just spawn when your not in the room and walk about until they see you 
 and attack you. Also these splicers are meant to harvest these Little Girls for Atoms and attack 
 them when they see her but i've never seen this in game. 100% of the time they'll just ignore the 
 Ltitle sister and walk around till they see you which is weird.
  
  Also the game is meant to be set underwater and yet i wouldn't even know if it wasn't for the first 
 level and a couple seethrough corridors that let you see into the ocean. The backgrounds of the 
 ocean have very bad pictures that you'll see the same one over and over again, what makes it worse 
 is they arn't that great quality too. I wanted a like Deep Blue Sea (the movie) type feeling where 
 the place is falling apart from waters rushing in, you'll get abit of that on the first level but 
 nothing after really. You'll see puddles about the place and leaks but for all i care this could 
 be set in a space station with leaking pipes and you wouldn't know the difference.
  
  Other things i didn't like about the game was the fact it had no swimming in what you'd expect 
 for a underwater game. Also theres no vehicles of any kind like old fashion ones or even underwater 
 ones and don't tell me they dont have the technlogy. Somehow they invented flying bots that some 
 how map out the world perfectly and not bump into anything with great sensors and it can hover, 
 which we can't even do today yet lol. I'd expect however a city to have vehicles for travel or 
 even a nice tram or anything which woulda been nice.
  
  The city doesn't feel like a city too it's just aload of Doom 3 styled corridors where this time 
 you can revist the levels you've been through, not that you'd want to but sometimes your forced 
 to. Everything feels soo linear and obviously placed just for you to have some gameplay with Plasmids 
 with. Like how theres a leak and theres splicers who run into it and it's just perfectly placed 
 for that or Petrol pefectly placed so it'll burn all the splicers in a scripted event outside of 
 the room.
  
  That's another thing thing i didn't like was the poor weapons and plasmids, if you want pladmis/magic 
 type thing then play Dark Messiah of Might and Magic instead because it does a MUCH better job. 
 I found the Plasmids to be boring and not fun to use and on top of that they ruined the storyline 
 and the gameplay and the levels. Everything in the game feels like they tacked it on to revolve 
 around them. The Guns aswel arn't very good and just don't feel like your firering a gun like other 
 FPS games, theres also not much choice with only a handful of them. Another thing i noticed is 
 the sound effects on the guns is very very poor and so are the animations on them.
  
  The game is sooo short aswel and the maps are very small if you could run through them all with 
 no story it would probably take you like 2-5 mins in total lol. The game however makes you run 
 through them back and forth to look for items for the main story and it gets very annoying and 
 not fun. I don't want to waste time running through a level i've already been through to look for 
 items, it's a FPS i want ACTION!!!!!!! The game becomes tooo much about running around looking 
 for items and looking for that health pack or ammo and you spend more time click on items and things 
 on the ground than fighting or looking at the nice graphics.
  
  Reviews said the story was great but i thought it was a pretty mediocre Doom 3 style where it's 
 your choice if you want story or not really. Everything is told over voice recordings that you 
 can miss alot of them and it's just not fun lsitening to them aswel, i don't see the point in them. 
 I don't like the main story aswel i really wish they made more of it, however again it all just 
 revolves around boring Plasmids and nothing good.
  
  I can say some good things however and that's the graphics are nice but not "AMAZING" just nice 
 and has great art direction. Also the music is really nice aswel and gives it abit of atmosphere 
 even though the sound effects are lacking. The game is also fun but not $45 worth of fun so i think 
 the price lets it down abit too.
  
  So a short 8 - 10 hour single player and no Multiplayer that doesn't make it great value, you'd 
 expect multiplayer in FPS games of today to stop piracy aswel as keeping your game alive. The game 
 is also very easy seeing as you can't die in the game cause you'll just respawn at the nearest 
 respawn place and not lose anything and the enemies stay damaged.
  
  All in all it's a slightly above average FPS but just lets it down sooo much with all the faults 
 that it has. After reading my review you'll probably wonder why i'm saying it's above average without 
 hardly saying a nice word about the game. This is because it does have quality and it is fun but 
 just not that 10/10 game people were saying....
  
  Edit: The game doesn't come with a SDK you'd expect so no mods too : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallschirm1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  I had some expectation when this start was starting to appear on the net. I have played system 
 shock 2 and had a fair good memory of it. This game starts out real amassing right from the start 
 and i just love the posters and signs and theme the displays it self in this lovely underwater 
 city. And the more i'm playing it the more i would like to see more of this fantastic world. I 
 don't want to tell to much about the levels because you realy should see it for your self. The 
 controls and the weapons are great, but the texture details on the guns are not the best i have 
 seen, but with the world so beautiful it's very easy to forget about that.
  
  If you like shoot em up games then this game should be in your collection.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdf_commander
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  First off, Bioshock is more that just a FPS, its a story telling session that just happens to involve 
 crazy genetic ability's revolved around the player to make their character suited to their game 
 style. From the very beginning, the story of Rapture is pounded into you as an unlucky sap stumbling 
 on the city in ruin. Between rummaging though the leftovers of chaos, to the character interactions, 
 the plot is presented as a nice big juicy steak, and all you want is more! The plot pushes the 
 game forward at a good pace, and always leaves the player wanting more NOW. The story the player 
 follows just has one generic twist, of which the player can find out well in advance that is coming 
 if they fully explored their environments before then. Providing you have a system that can handle 
 the game in its full glory, the water effects are absolute drop dead stunning. More interaction 
 with the game environment could have opened up many more opportunities for the player as they received 
 more and more abilities. Enemy re spawning would have to be the only big annoyance the game provides. 
 Nothing jumps you out of your seat going back to an area you already cleared out just to turn around 
 and see a splicer right up in your face.
  
  The game is a definite must for fans of FPS.
  For those die hards that loved System Shock.... lets just say there are a few moments that take 
 you back,
  For anyone else looking for a fun game, check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  After years of development, BioShock has finally arrived to take you into the depths of Rapture. 
 Irrational -- now called 2K Boston/Australia -- delivers on their promises and offers you the choice 
 to play the way you want to play. It doesn't revolutionize the shooter genre, but evolves it considerably 
 and can't be considered anything less than a masterful piece of entertainment. An excellent story, 
 emergent gameplay, eye-popping visuals and even better sound blend in such a natural and compelling 
 way that even those who aren't interested in this genre must play BioShock.
  
  BioShock starts off in a plane and you assume the role of Jack -- a mostly silent no-name who'll 
 soon realize he's way over his head. It's 1960 and as your transport soars across the Mid-Atlantic, 
 your plane takes an unplanned dip into the cold Atlantic waters. Miraculously, you survive. Swimming 
 up for air, you realize it's you, plane debris, and miles of ocean. But wait, a tall, foreboding 
 lighthouse stands not too far from where you're gasping for air. Either die out here or enter the 
 lighthouse. So, by taking the obvious (it should be obvious, right?) route, you ride a bathysphere 
 down into the ocean depths you just swam out of. And then cue the awe. The bathysphere leads you 
 to an underwater city called Rapture -- a city where no man is bounded by the law of government, 
 where no man is bounded by the parameters of morality, where a man can unleash his full potential. 
 In other words, a utopia. And what do utopias tend to do? Fail. Hard.
  
  Right from the outset, it's obvious Rapture's a sinking disaster. The citizens of Rapture are insane 
 in every sense of the word. With only thoughts of violence and scattered remnants of their past 
 memories, maybe dying in the ocean waters wasn't such a bad idea. Well, no time for the past now, 
 is it? Time to move forward, for better and for worse. Fortunately, there are those who wish to 
 help you out and survive. By communicating via a short-wave radio, people who've faced Rapture's 
 worst and are still relatively sane will guide you throughout the world. And there are those who 
 wish to stop your progress. Andrew Ryan -- the man who dreamed up this world -- believes Rapture's 
 going to to turn around and become the once lavish city it once was and he'll do everything to 
 stop you from destroying his vision. This is a world that was destroyed by toying with genetics 
 and stepping over the moral boundaries of science, but Ryan still believes his world is coming 
 back. BioShock's unique setup provides an excellent story that's told through a combination of 
 audio logs you'll pick up throughout the game and through the radio when you talk with the few 
 citizens of Rapture who are still capable of thinking and speaking coherently.
  
  The characters aren't two-dimensional, either. Every single one -- from the ones from past audio 
 logs to the ones you'll communicate with often -- is extremely well developed and they don't fall 
 into pure black and white archetypes; everyone falls in the middle gray. The fact that you won't 
 see even half of these characters in person makes it all the more amazing. Much of this has to 
 do with the voices that give the characters weight. Every single accent is spot-on, every inflection 
 is absolutely perfect, every line is spoken with such authenticity that Rapture is all the more 
 believable because of it. The same amount of care has been poured into explaining how Rapture works; 
 every single facet of this world is explained. Where does Rapture get its power from? Where does 
 it get its oxygen? Why can you take more bullets and beatings than everyone else? It's incredible 
 how these simple additions make the world so incredibly atmospheric and immersive. As scif-fi worlds 
 in videogames go, it ranks up there with the original Metroid Prime in terms of credibility. If 
 there's one problem, it's the ending. It's simply abrupt and feels rushed. But in the big scope 
 of things, this is easily overlooked. Not enough words or accolades can be given to BioShock's 
 voice actors and writers. What Irrational has achieved with the narrative is quite simply, incredible.
 
  
  As atmospheric and immersive BioShock is, does the gameplay follow suit? For the most part, yes. 
 BioShock defines emergent gameplay as the combination of smart AI and predictability of the world 
 come together in such that way that every single situation will play out differently. BioShock's 
 primarily a shooter and a good one at that. There's a wide array of weapons to choose from and 
 each one has three ammo types that'll dish out more or less damage depending on the enemy type. 
 You'll also have the chance to upgrade your weapons at special stations throughout the game. Besides 
 the new gears and pipes that get grafted onto your gun, these upgrades do make a genuine difference. 
 And you'll send your bullets, for the better 90% of the game, to splicers -- citizen of Rapture 
 that have spliced their genes to the point that any semblance of humanity has largely diminished. 
 Four types of splicers exist in the world and each and every single of them are absolutely insane. 
 They charge at you with random sputterings of dinner parties and past successes that a feeling 
 of sympathy might arise from within you. Just expect those misguided feelings to be swept away 
 when they try their absolute best in trying to kill you. The shooting generally feels good and 
 the AI reacts accordingly in firefights. But as great as the shooting is, it can start to feel 
 really stale because the enemies don't evolve or change tactics as the game goes on. The enemies 
 you see from the first 4 hours is what you'll see for the next 15. But the gunplay's just half 
 of what makes BioShock so great.
  
  When Rapture was just starting out, scientists found a way to genetically enhance man. And soon 
 after, that evolved into plasmids -- basically BioShock's magic side of the game. With plasmids, 
 you'll be able to light people on fire, lift objects with your mind and much more. As you use plasmids, 
 you drain Eve -- BioShock's mana that you'll find scattered throughout Rapture. Complementing plasmids 
 are tonics -- perks that can buff your character to increase his smarts, physical strength and 
 even emit a shockwave if you happen to take a pipe to the face. You can only carry around so many 
 plasmids and tonics at any given time. So, you can swap plasmids and tonics in and out from Gene 
 Banks -- plasmid storage devices that let you swap out plasmids and tonics. The plasmids in BioShock 
 are fun to use but as you keep playing, you'll no doubt have a plasmid combo that won't fail. It's 
 hard to change your plasmid lineup when the one you're using is going to be reliable for the rest 
 of the game. Using the same plasmids over and over again starts to wear thin but thankfully, the 
 game ends before it gets too repetitive. Some of the plasmids and tonics are scattered throughout 
 the world for your taking but most of them will require you to go to Gatherer's Garden and buy 
 these powers. And no, not with money.
  
  Little Sisters -- wee little girls that enjoy running around and sucking down the genetic juices 
 from dead bodies -- carry a substance within them called Adam -- the currency that lets you buy 
 more plasmids, tonics and slots to hold more plasmids and tonics at the same time. And guarding 
 these little girls are Big Daddies -- big diving suit clad beings that do everything to protect 
 their little ones. Big Daddies roam around in each level knocking on vents to summon the Little 
 Sisters. So to get the Adam you kill the Big Daddy which leads you to your prize. And it'll be 
 tough. These guys put up a good fight and are definitely the best parts in the game. The game encourages 
 you to use your weapons, plasmids and environment in tandem when facing these guys. So, after taking 
 down the protector, you're given a choice -- kill the Little Sister and receive all the Adam you 
 can get or save them and receive half as much. Both have long and short-term consequences and will 
 also affect the game's ending. But if you want to go to sleep with a guilt-free conscious, then 
 you're better off saving.
  
  Surprisingly, even with all this destruction and disturbing events taking place, Rapture's security 
 system's still functional. And besides that, splicers have created their own defense turrets thatll 
 shoot on sight. With all these things against you, there's only one thing to do -- make them ally 
 with you. Every single piece of security can be hacked and you do that by rerouting the circuit 
 flow by revealing and swapping out pipe pieces so the circuit flow flows to a predetermined exit. 
 When successful, the machine will attack splicers with extreme prejudice. Watch out though, failing 
 to reroute the circuit will result in an overload that'll take a good chunk out of your health. 
 And later on, overload and alarm circuits will appear and rerouting flow to them will cause you 
 to get hurt in some way. Hacking can also be done to vending machines -- machines that dispense 
 out health items, ammo and even tonics -- so that the prices for an item become cheaper. Or, if 
 you'd rather just avoid all of this, you can buyout the machine or use a fairly rare autohack tool 
 to hack without fail. While the hacking minigame's enjoyable at first, it becomes a repetitive 
 exercise as you keep playing. There's a lot to hack and depending on your play style, expect to 
 do this a lot. Even though it gets almost unbearable by the end, the rewards are always totally 
 worth it.
  
  And so, with a combination of the AI, gunplay, plasmids and environment, BioShock really come alive. 
 You can trust the world will do what you expect it to do. When you electrobolt a pool of water, 
 it conducts and anyone in it will feel the pain. If you light a splicer on fire, the splicer'll 
 desperately look for a source of water to stop the pain. Things catch on fire and it'll spread 
 if it touches another flammable source. Ice melts from fire. Objects bounce around and collide 
 accordingly with other objects. You can hack turrets and security so you'd have an area that'd 
 be safe enough to sleep in. Being able to play the game your way sounds too good to be true but 
 BioShock makes it into reality. You'll gain a general trust with the world because if something 
 works in real life, it'll probably work in BioShock. The gameplay, as great as it is, gets blown 
 away from the incredible atmosphere. And all of that has to do with the simply flawless audiovisual 
 design. BioShock's world's striking, believable and just a pleasure to look at. The art-deco style 
 fused with the overdone advertisements from the 40s create such a unique atmosphere that really 
 isn't seen in anywhere else. And when you consider BioShock takes place underwater, you better 
 damn well expect the water in the game to be fantastic. You can expect as such because BioShock's 
 water blows other videogame water out of the water (pun totally freakin' intended) . Water cascades 
 down stairsteps, wraps and reflects off objects in such a way that it'll make you pretty damn thirsty. 
 And somehow, the sound's even better. Every sound's sharp, accurate, distinct and blends with the 
 world that if you just closed your eyes and just listened to the game, you'll swear this place 
 exists somewhere. And as mentioned before, the voice acting is absolutely amazing. BioShock's a 
 technical and artistic achievement in visual and sound design and you'll constantly be drawn in 
 more by the visuals and sound then by gameplay (which of course is way fun) .
  
  As far as first-person shooters go, this is a long game -- it should take anyone 15-25 hours depending 
 on how much you explore Rapture. The game's generally linear but you're allowed to go off the beaten 
 path to scour for items and audio logs that reveal more of the people and history of Rapture. You'll 
 always be rewarded for exploring and you'll often see things that you wouldn't have seen if you 
 followed the quest arrow religiously. And you'll get different endings depending on how you treat 
 the Little Sisters. There's a lot of reasons to go back in for another dip, but the main reason 
 will be your urge to play through it again because the experience is incredible.
  
  The game does have its fair share of issues. The way BioShock ramps up the difficulty toward the 
 latter half of the game's simply cheap and lazy -- splicers you've seen before are issued stronger 
 weapons and can take more damage for whatever reason. However, issues like these can be overlooked. 
 BioShock's more than the sum of its parts. The atmosphere, the gameplay and the story work together. 
 If any of these elements were lacking, the game would be a far weaker product. Amazingly, it doesn't 
 fail in any aspect. BioShock's the game we've been waiting for years for and, for System Shock 
 fans, about a decade. BioShock shows how far this industry's gotten and reconfirms videogames as 
 the best form of entertainment out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock its one of those games we only play from time to time, its one of truly awsome games that 
 are released from time to time with many good, bad games in the mid. Bioshock does everyting perfect 
 and deserves to be rated with a square 10 like half life 2 for exp. Gorgeous graphics makes bioshock 
 one of the best looking games to date with awesome water effects (rapture its underwater so water 
 its a very important thing in bioshock) , great textures..........
  Bioshock also has great gameplay with many abilities and weapons, you can also upgrade weapons, 
 health, abilities etc... as well as carry more abilities when purchasing more slots.
  Big daddys are really though and you will have a hard time with It, the AI in the game its perfect, 
 for exp: if you put and enemy in flames he will quickly look for water. You'll have very respect 
 for the big daddys cause they are big, hard, fast...
  The storyline its fantastic and very innovative.
  Bioshock its a perfect game, that came to revol 
 the FPS genre, just go buy it and have fun playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycd4u
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I am not a big fan of the shooter type games, but this game looked 
 cool and there was alot of hype surrounding it. The hype was definitely correct, this game was 
 very innovative and has a compelling storyline. The twists and turns are like watching a movie. 
 I actually felt good each time I saved one of the little girls. I highly recommend this game to 
 anyone who enjoys playing games on a PC or XBox 360. I also enjoyed the free form of the play, 
 where you could pretty much go anywhere you wanted in the game, although you still have to go certain 
 places to progress to the next part of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neoimpact
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  This certainly isn't a game for everyone, it could be applied to any sub-gamer clique but they 
 won't be the ones who see the true beauty behind the game. The gamers who follow the plot enjoy 
 the incredible back story and allow themselves to become enveloped in an entire history painted 
 by the designers are truly going to enjoy every bit of the game. Sure it requires a fairly high 
 end machine to run to it's greatest extent but even turned down the world created for the players 
 is stunning.
  
  You can't a game like this, especially one with such hype, not to draw an immense crowd so, yes 
 there will be some let down souls. But anyone who can't see the pure value in this game as a doorway 
 for storytelling through gameplay really has no right to call themselves a gamer. It's not ideal 
 for the casuals or the Shoot 'em up fans. But to be honest there is enough in this game that even 
 those can find some fair amount of lasting entertainment.
  
  Having run through on every difficulty and being near finish on Hard I see replay value in a somewhat 
 linear game that just makes me proud to have been first in line for this game, no it won't last 
 for years and years to come but it was certainly worth every penny to play a truly captivating 
 FPS for once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfdogKC
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  I must say, after playing and beating Bioshock (about 25 hours) , this game is what we have all 
 been waiting for. It's a shooter that does so much more. There are an infinite amount of ways to 
 dispose of your enemies in this game. Oh yea, and the storyline - there actually is one, which 
 is hard for most other FPS to say.
  
  From the beginning scene all the way through the end, the lush environments and constant change 
 keep you from becoming board. Character growth and adaptation help make this game so playable. 
 This is a gamer's game - go get yourself a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerelum
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  Alright, I bought this thing after hearing much to do about it. Everyone I knew who played games 
 was eagerly saying Bioshock comes out on X day! So I bit the bullet and figured what the heck.
 
  
  When I first installed it I was cringing as I flipped between the install and the review on this 
 website, cause of the technical flaws that I had read about. Plus the fact the review said that 
 their vista machine didn't work at all soundwise. Well, I finished the install without a hitch 
 and then it downloaded some type of update right out the gate (nice touch) which I loved cause 
 it saved me the effort or trying to find a real patch for the game, and for anyone who's done that, 
 you know it can be a pain in the buttocks from time to time.
  
  Well, I started off my time in rapture, extremely pleased with the opening graphics and story, 
 though I had to tweak the brightness way up, cause I couldn't see anything but black water, for 
 a second I thought I crashed into my native lake erie.. But seriously... Once the system ground 
 through the brightness update, I was well on my way to swimming into the lighthouse.
  
  As I approached the lighthouse I was totally drawn into the world that I was quickly jumping my 
 left middle finger backwards to the back arrow to retreat as lights and music started playing. 
 I was honestly worried that some monest would jump out and kill me in the first few moments of 
 play. But that's a good thing, the game makes you wonder what's out there hanging around this corner 
 and that, and I really enjoyed that. Once going down in the bathysphere I was hooked by the detail 
 of the trip.
  
  Fish and other underwater creatures swim by you as you go down, you see statues and signs that 
 are simply amazing to behold, the graphics team should be congratulated on this game btw.
  
  Now fast forward a bit and I'm given the choice to be a nice guy, or an evil bastard. I take 
 the role of nice guy and hit the L key that means I'm going to save the little sister and not suck 
 her dry like a drink box. And so my path of nice guyness begins in Rapture.
  
  Fast forward a bit again, I am roughly half way through the game and have encountered some major 
 characters in the game, and am sorta disappointed. The scientist you meet is just a splicer character 
 map, that doesn't attack you. The art guy is just a fancy suit wearing splicer with a funny mask. 
 With all the greatness that this game has accomplished, it would have done better with a little 
 more variety in the characters you run into, possibly something non-humanoid and less predictable 
 then the splicers.
  
  The weapons are uniquely different but I found myself mostly running rampant with a shotgun and 
 OO shot for the majority of the game, zapping things and unloading two rapid fire blasts of shotgun 
 to their domes, taking them down. Or luring them into water and frying them. The only weapon that 
 seemed to have decent headshot capability for the whole game (Being able to kill in one hit to 
 the face) seemed to be the crossbow. Which is one of the last weapons you find. The chemical thrower 
 was fun, but sorta useless cause the napalm doesn't seem to damage them very much, the liquid nitrogen 
 freezes them and forces you to switch weapons to finish the job, and the electric goo was only 
 good for fighting big daddies.
  
  Now I beat the game on the route of the nice guy, which was fun, and had a good end story, but 
 now I want to see what I get when I become a bastard and start sucking the life outta those little 
 girls. However, I don't think that I can subject myself to the repetition of the same game with 
 the same 5 enemies for another 10-15 hours. It's sad really, cause the game is fun, but sorta what 
 I would call a one trick pony.
  
  And that's that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shannydanny
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Only a few games can boast the ability to draw you into themselves so deeply you find yourself 
 strategising and planning after having turned your PC off; BioShock is the newest member of that 
 elite club.
  
  BioShock is stunning under every section and finding problems has, itself, been problematic because 
 of the spit and polish that makes you realise this game is so close to perfect. From the offset 
 you notice how beautiful the graphics are, taking you a few seconds to realise you're no longer 
 watching a FMV sequence but are actually in control of the camera. The setting of this first scene, 
 as well, sets a dark and claustrophobic mood as you're herded towards an ominous lighthouse silhouetted 
 against the moon, a style of visual that runs in the undercurrents of the whole game.
  
  It takes a very long time to get over the visuals, but the shocks and scares never cease, with 
 splicers, the basic 'baddie', hounding you as you traverse the submerged dystopia. Indeed, sometimes 
 the very thought that a splicer is coming round the corner is enough to get your adrenaline pumping. 
 The lighting and sound are integral to the frightening situations BioShock presents, as lights 
 flicker casting real-time shadows accompanied by the buzzing of a short-circuited wire, revealing 
 blood-stained walls and charred corpses; this is definitely not a game for the weak-hearted.
  
  It takes a lot to submerge a gamer so deeply into a game that they have trouble resurfacing, 
 but that's just what BioShock achieves; you can literally hear the world carrying on around you, 
 as big daddies clump by with the little sisters telling them 'not to be a slowpoke', the cameras 
 whirring as they scan for enemies and the splicers muttering to themselves and each other. Standing 
 still in Rapture yields an impressive atmosphere; it is impossible to describe how unnerving it 
 is to hear an unseen splicer shout and sob at their memories while you hide in the shadows.
  
  The story of BioShock is the single most reason for buying this game: truly it is a masterpiece 
 in its own right, but the presentation is what gives the whole creation its sense of emptiness, 
 as it is slowly revealed how the great dream of Rapture became the nightmare you see before you. 
 Different side stories flesh out the people and places of Rapture, but they all come together in 
 the end to form a monstrous family tree-esche plot twist that reveals your whole purpose within 
 the game.
  
  The fear you experience in the first few levels is due to your lack of equipment; facing gangs 
 of splicers with only a revolver and lightning plasmid can be very daunting, but as you gain more 
 and more sophisticated weaponry the apprehension precipitates until you're ready to charge gun 
 ho into a big daddy. However, a neat plot twist renders your plasmids unusable, randomly selecting 
 a plasmid every 30-odd seconds, and it's when your perfected-plasmid-plans become bust that you 
 realise how vulnerable you are without them. The game mechanics 2K have created here really put 
 you in your place, forcing you to appreciate what BioShock is and not treat it as the filler before 
 the next big game.
  
  Perfect is not the word to describe BioShock: it has its faults, some of which are as a result 
 of the good points, whereas others could have been worked out of the system. For instance, during 
 intense gunfights or when you enter a particularly harmonious area the sound can become diluted, 
 allowing only gunfire or buzzing of electricity to be herd. The biggest problem to be found within 
 BioShock, however, is it's fantastical story; being so heavily scripted as it is, the linear story 
 does not allow for any free-roaming. Yes, you get to explore each area at your own leisuire, but 
 ultimately every path leads back to the main one where you continue your mission. This renders 
 any replays only worthwhile for getting every plasmid and saving/harvesting every little sister, 
 which is not as much fun the second time around, already knowing where the shocks and surprises 
 are.
  
  BioShock is scary, so it's a horror. But it's also action-packed, so it's a shooter. But it also 
 allows you to upgrade yourself, so it's an RPG. In fact, BioShock cannot be placed under any existing 
 title, unless you count 'Masterpiece' that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaz-420
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  OK, here is the skinny.
  
  The Good:
  As far as gameplay, graphics, sound, and general creepiness and gore, this game is a welcom addition. 
 The story totally jives and it is worth every penny. The voice acting is totally awesome. I like 
 they way they make the player a part of the cut scenes.
  
  The Bad:
  Super stupid Techinical problems. I have a newer core 2 chip (6850) 4GB of RAM, and 2 8800GTX in 
 SLI, and Vista 64bit ... all running at 2048x1536 on a 21 viewsonic. The game performs awesome, 
 that is, until it started crashing. I played it for about 3 hours without any problems. Came back 
 the next day, and it started crashing everytime I tried to play. Found out that if you turn off 
 all startup items and unrelated microsoft services, the game will play, but it still crashes occasionally, 
 which is a real bain in the back side.
  
  They need to fix this and I will give this game a 10. I is absolutely the bomb when it works right!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekLoffin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:54 am PT
Review:  Having just got myself a completely new rig (last one was pushing 5 years old and was only pretty 
 good then) , I decided my first serious game to get was Bioshock. Now, right off the top, it was 
 a fun game, and I don't regret my purchase at all. I'd gladly recommend it to any PC owner with 
 the hardware, and any 360 owner. However, it doesn't quite reach that 'WOW' level that I was expecting 
 and hoping for.
  
  Now, unlike Gamespot, I had zero hitches with mine, although that could be easily attributed to 
 the completely new setup I got for it. Technically, the game is demanding but unlike some it truly 
 looks like it needs those specs. The game has some real nice art direction, and can be truly fast 
 paced, with matching sound making up an all together creepy and engaging package.
  
  I'm sure by now you know that this game is like the spiritual successor to System Shock 2, and 
 that's a tough act to follow. You have a lot of similar elements: a derelict setting, deadly mutants 
 and machines, the plot delivered via audio recordings and messages with a few in game cutscenes 
 to fill it out, and of course the standard fair of the first person shooter, namely blow stuff 
 up. What sets this one a bit apart from System Shock 2 is that you aren't quite alone. You're still 
 mostly alone, but at some key points in the game you will be interacting with people, although 
 only at a very minimal level. Another thing different is the total lack of a formal inventory system. 
 Here it is streamlined into simple limits of capacity which is both good and bad, good in that 
 it is easy, bad in that it is... well easy (more on that in a bit) .
  
  As said, sound and graphics are both stellar. Sound in particular is very good, with full voice 
 acting for all the recordings that is solidly performed, and sets a very convincing tone to everything. 
 Your enemies also are quite verbose, ranting on in their madness as they stalk you, and the little 
 sisters, as they are called, are just plain creepy. Graphics are quite the same, making good use 
 of the unreal 3 engine. The game looks very pleasing and the art direction works quite well for 
 helping to set that mood. However, it isn't quite perfect. Because of the cramped quarters, it 
 really lacks one of those WOW moments. You know, you look out at the coastline of Half Life 2 and 
 just pause to take in the scenery, or in Doom 3 where the lighting engine was put to creepy effect 
 in several tense moment. Here I really never had cause to pause to take things in. Instead it was 
 a bunch of small locations that, while looking quite good, are ultimately forgettable. Still, don't 
 let that sound too bad, it's just holds it back slightly from getting my best grade in the looks 
 department.
  
  Now, where Bioshock starts to show it's true weakness is in the gameplay. Everything has been streamline 
 for quick and easy approach. Even dying is mostly trivial as you just revive nearly instantly at 
 the nearest revival pod. While most of that can to good for a quick fun experience, it weakens 
 the difficulty substantially. Enemies don't even recover health after you die, and you can often 
 get right back into the fight if it isn't far from the pod.
  
  But, we're not done. I've already mentioned that you only have a simple capacity limit inventory 
 (where you can hold X ammo for each weapon of each type) , which while nice also limits the challenge 
 more. The plasmids, Bioshock's special ability system, are nice a flashy, but come off as persistently 
 underpowered, especially when you only have 1 ammo for all offensive ones and it's becomes very 
 limited (which is actually an issue I had with System Shock 2's mind powers as well so that's not 
 surprising) . That's not to say they are useless, far from it, they just don't have the punch you'd 
 expect and become easily underutilized as the game progresses. On the other hand, unlike System 
 Shock 2, where you had to ultimately choose how to progress, Plasmids are easily obtained and you 
 can pretty much get them all by the end of the game requiring that you have no true specialization. 
 Hacking too is very simple. There is only 1 hacking mini game, and for each thing you hack it always 
 starts in the same configuration, although the details may alter as you reveal them. It amusing 
 for the first while, but by about half way thru the game it becomes needlessly tiring and tedious 
 as you go thru the same puzzles over and over again. And, don't worry too much about getting lost. 
 You have a complete map the moment you enter a zone, making exploration a breeze. Lastly, although 
 you'll run into the occasional stretch where health or ammo is scarce, those times are few. Money, 
 which can be used to buy either fairly easily, is plentiful for those that look, and you can easily 
 restock.
  
  All that negativity aside, the game is still very solid. Enemies are engaging and all use their 
 own unique tactics based on their type requiring you to adapt to each. Plasmids do offer some interesting 
 options in the fights, and often are well used as mechanics within the game world. With that easy 
 going death system, at most you'll be annoyed by a death, but can easily get back in there and 
 adjust your approach, avoiding that usual save and reload method of gameplay. While having a complete 
 map may make it kind of easy, it also avoids most of the mazy'ness that could easily have resulted 
 and helps a lot for ensuring you get everything explored. And finally, control wise the game is 
 extremely solid. My only minor quibble being the use of the mouse wheel button for both ammo type 
 while weapon switch was also on the wheel, but this is easily tweaked in setup and was only a very 
 minor control issue to start with.
  
  All in all, it's still a very enjoyable experience and a great game overall, just not quite superb. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walrus1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  I was unsure about buying Bioshock but after playing the demo a few times I went out to Gamestop 
 and picked a copy up. This game is probably one of the best games I have ever played. The story 
 is written very well. The graphics my god they show off just what we can hope to see with DX10. 
 Looking at still pictures of DX10 just doesn't due it justice but to see it inaction. Wow thats 
 something else. 2K has successfully blended RPG elements with a FPS on a level unseen since the 
 original Deus Ex. I know its the scriptural successor to System Shock but it doesn't have the same 
 spook feel. Sadly it seems to have been rushed out early. i had some trouble installing it thanks 
 to the required auto-patch. And I had trouble with it not putting sound to all my speakers in 5.1 
 mode. But running it in stereo fixed this problem, but still. Still an instant classic well worth 
 the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saltyspam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Finally we get to play one of the most anticipated games of this year and this game is really worth 
 the wait. With great game play and incredible graphics it is really hard not to like this game.
 
  
  Graphics- The graphics in this game are some of the best I have seen. The lighting and textures 
 are really just unbelievable. The city itself, Rapture, is great to look at. The guns and spells 
 look great when you get to use them. Its got great rag doll and water effects. The level designs 
 vary and each are very creepy. I really had no problem with the graphics at all no glitches for 
 me.
  
  Sound- Great voice acting, sound effects, music in this game. Guns sound real and some of the stuff 
 the enemies say to themselves are generally creepy and go along with the atmosphere really well. 
 The jazz music playing in the background you'd think wouldn't fit with the intense action but it 
 actually blends very nicely and makes the experience a lot better. Top notch sound in this game.
 
  
  Game Play- This game plays as good as it looks. It has a great story as well as terrific action 
 game play. There are many ways to play this game. You acquire a wide variety of spells, called 
 plasmids, and guns. The only problem is that you will one use a certain few of the spells and guns. 
 The flame thrower was a gun I used once and never did again. Same with the hypnotize the Big Daddy 
 plasmid. You get to upgrade your spells and guns as you go along. The enemies you face are mainly 
 messed up humans from too much plasmids. They are pretty smart and some are hard to deal with. 
 The worst of all these enemies is the Big Daddy which you need to use most of your plasmids and 
 ammo against. these fights are just so intense especially on hard where you basically die in 2 
 hits. After you kill one you are given the choice to harvest these creepy little girls for Adam, 
 which is needed to upgrade your spells. You get to Harvest them and get a lot of Adam or rescue 
 them, get a small portion of Adam. Whatever you choose will effect the games outcome. This game 
 is also very creepy at times with enemies sneaking up on you all the time. Few problems though, 
 game is a little short and the final boss fight was too easy. I had more trouble on a Big Daddy 
 then the last boss. I also thought Where's some multi-player? but it's hard to imagine this game 
 online. The reload times are very slow which makes the game suspenseful but it wouldn't work in 
 my opinion. This game isn't a perfect game but its pretty close. I want to give it more then just 
 a 9.5. Maybe a 9.7 or 9.8, but it doesn't matter this is one outstanding game for the 360 and a 
 must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BringTheBlood
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  So ive been playing Bioshock none stop, and ive gotta say its been worth the wait. The graphics 
 are absolutely amazing, i will say this though, if you have a PC that can run the game, then do 
 it. I think it looks so much better on the PC, not that say that it doesn't look absolutely amazing 
 on the 360, because it most certainly does. The game play is awesome, although i did get the feeling 
 of just another shooter despite the electricity and so on. The environments are gorgeous and at 
 time you can find yourself just stopping and looking around, and then dying because your busy looking 
 at how cool the room looks and not the big daddy in front of you. I do wish however that it was 
 more open, all the paths are pretty easy to find and theres really no exploring you can do.
  
  But over all this is a game that you definitely need to go out and buy. Its worth every penny 
 and its game that you can play over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss_cj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  It makes you want to play again and again !
  because of the diferente ways to play and diferent ways to be in the game.
  it feels like i need 
 to do this other way you know and the story seens to get diferent ends depending of what you do 
 trought the hole game...
  But i had some problems with the subtitles =\ it gots no synchronization at all, the subtitles 
 here disappear before the speech ends.. and its really sucks =\ because i got a tittle lost in 
 the story, but i got the overall thing.
  And i had another ideia whle reading the review but i just forget it =\ hehe
  Any way, its a 
 must play game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMaximus
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  With the hype for this game I expected more, the environments graphics are great, the music is 
 great sticking with the time frame of the game, the story line ok, but if you were looking for 
 some of the keywords like revolutionary, game of the year etc I think you will find once all 
 this hype dies down that Bioshock is still just another FPS at heart..
  
  The start up screens not being escapable is VERY annoying. Also I was not able to get sound working 
 properly on Vista, even though I have an X-FI which is featured on the box and was disappointing 
 as I was anticipating my 1st DX10 title with my new 8800GTX only to be able to play it in DX9, 
 however the game did run fine on XP using DX9.
  
  The game is pretty easy to beat and I akin the plasmids to magic in any other FPS or RPG game, 
 the visuals in rapture are probably the best part of the game which fits perfectly with its excellent 
 music. The overall game play is fun and worth a run through, you will probably find that a lot 
 of the more scary parts of the game are strait out of F. E. A. R and similar FPSs so nothing new 
 there. The enemies visually will not blow you away nor will the AI, the entire Big Daddy / Little 
 Sister thing is a neat twist but again just a twist. I would recommend this game, but would advise 
 someone to wait for the hype to die down and the prices to lower as well as at least 1 patch release 
 before completely recommending Bioshock.
  
  The Good:
  Rapture is a captivating and different environment for a FPS to take place.
  Music is excellent 
 fit.
  
  The Bad:
  Cannot skip startup screens or in game scripted scenes.
  All the hype: it will make you expect more than you will get.
  Technical issues: This should 
 have been sold as a DX9 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hatefish2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock. The name has been used a lot recently as everyone awaited it's release. It is the spiritual 
 sequel to System Shock 2 (Which is a game that was ahead of it's time) and Bioshock set out to 
 do the same.. sadly a game of this caliber was ruined in a terrible release bogged down by bugs 
 and anti-piracy techniques that made the game almost unplayable for many users who had purchased 
 the game. Despite all these problems, It's one of the best games to ever come out.
  
  Within minutes of the game and intro cut scene you are thrown into the underwater world of rapture, 
 with no hesitation you are forced to start to think about your survival. The sad part is that I 
 felt things progressed too fast as you gain your abilities literally as soon as you start playing, 
 withing around 5 minutes. Other than that the immersion and the atmosphere make this both fun and 
 amazing to look at and listen to.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game present an atmosphere unparalleled by anything in gaming to 
 date. The environment feels both alive and intimidating as you walk through the corridors of an 
 underwater civilization. The architecture of the world looks much like the 1960's in which it takes 
 place, but it's minor futuristic touches make it look very unique. The game features full Direct 
 X10 support and it shows. Even on my low system specs I was able to play easily at a decent framerate 
 with amazing visuals. It looks spectacular. Sound:
  
  Prepare to hear the haunting sounds of disturbed self-mutated beings as they both interact with 
 each other and yourself. The weapons, sounds, voices and atmosphere all sound extremely well done 
 and put the icing on the cake. Gameplay:
  
  This is where the game gets alot of it's slight problems. The game itself is an RPG/FPS hybrid, 
 a great idea on paper, and it's done extremely well here as well. My only problem was that it didn't 
 feel as much as a survival game as System Shock 2 did, it felt more like a run and gun.. but maybe 
 it's better off that way. It's still amazing..
  
  Again, alot of time and care was put into this game to make it what it is, but sadly some poor 
 decisions were made that led to this game not working on tons of systems, which is sad.. I wish 
 I had less trouble playing this game.. It would have made it a 10.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philaes
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  Can story transcend game play? In Bioshock, I believe it does.
  
  There is no doubt that the hype that surrounded Bioshock throughout development reached the dizzying 
 heights reserved only for games which are a true landmark. We saw this buzz with the likes of Half-Life 
 2, S. T. A. L. K. E. R, Oblivion, games that are the poster-boys of their genre. However, these games 
 are starting to age and we have since moved on, we expect technology to improve over time and we 
 expect game play to become refined. So, here we are, with what could very well be the defining 
 game of 2007, Bioshock. Is it a landmark game? Let's find out.
  
  Unless you have been without the internet for the past year, you should already know the basic 
 premise for this game, which I will briefly outline for the sake of anyone who needs to learn it 
 or refresh themselves. Through a series of really unfortunate events, you arrive in the underwater 
 city of 'Rapture'. Such a name forced me to consult the dictionary, and this is what I got: a state 
 of being carried away by overwhelming emotion . Rapture was indeed bliss for the intellectually 
 and culturally supreme. It was a humanist society where doctors, artists and the like can function 
 without fear of communists, the CIA, the Church and their ilk. So this city sounds real classy, 
 except a game spent in blissful ecstasy wouldnt make a good action game, so things have (of course) 
 gone wrong. They have gone wrong so spectacularly that it makes City 17 look like Venice. This 
 was Raptures fundamental mistake: they experimented with DNA, and we all know what happens when 
 you muck about with the double-helix (See 28 Days Later, and a host of other post-apocalyptic films 
 and games) . One of the games greatest triumphs in Bioshock the establishment of atmosphere. One 
 could wonder how 2k Games would pull off a realistic design of an underwater art deco metropolis 
 but they have managed to design a location so skillfully that I would really love to see what Rapture 
 was like before it all went wrong. I would love to see the Poseidon Mall crammed full of people, 
 I would love take a nice stroll in the lush forest of Arcadia, but alas, that wonderful city exists 
 only now in name, as society was crushed by the side-effects of Splicing (DNA altering) . Such a 
 loss is a real testament to the remorseful tone of the game; you can see, hear and feel that a 
 disaster has taken place here. Coupled with graphics that look to be the pinnacle of DirectX 9, 
 Bioshock has raised the bar for visuals. However, the astounding visuals are only half of the atmosphere.
 
  
  The music and voice acting are flawless. Garry Schyman, the composer, has created a host of memorable 
 tracks that the game would be a lot worse off without. In fact, I would go so far as to say that 
 the score of Bioshock rivals blockbuster movies and hit TV-shows. As does the voice acting. It 
 is really the core of the game. These people, from the German geneticist Doctor Tannenbaum to the 
 illustrious Andrew Ryan; tell the story of Rapture through audio-diaries and radio communications. 
 There is a lot of unnecessary detail that you could ignore, but if you do so then you are missing 
 out on an incredibly rich back story. Finding an audio-diary next to the corpse of a dead Splicer 
 reminds you that these people werent always so hideous, and the superlative voice acting reminds 
 you they were once human.
  
  This brings me to the next section of the review: Splicers. They are main enemy of Bioshock, twisted, 
 violent, pathetic beings that were once great thinkers. Hearing one sing a tearful rendition of 
 'Amazing Grace' before it attacks you is extremely poignant, though when it does attack it the 
 worst aspect of Bioshock presents itself. Ah, finally, you may be thinking, I am not using words 
 like 'fantastic', 'incredible'. Splicers are a well realised enemy, but they do get repetitive. 
 There are varieties, such as 'Spider' Splicers which are lightning fast, and 'Houdini' Splicers 
 which can teleport themselves in a very annoying fashion and proceed to hit you from behind, but 
 they are basically the same enemy and are all susceptible to bullets and will not require much 
 skill to take it down. There are few other enemies, including the security cameras and mechanical 
 security drones which are about as difficult to take down as a scarecrow. They do, however, make 
 for nice allies through a nice diversion, hacking, where you must re-direct the flow of water 
 to take control of a drone, camera, or lower vendor prices. This is a good addition and can be 
 often more entertaining than combat, but it is perhaps too common and the rewards arent always 
 great, for example a price reduction of 5 credits. The final enemy is the Big Daddy. It is nice 
 to finally meet the public face of Bioshock and see if they are as tough as they look. They are. 
 They obviously didnt pay much attention at school because one I fought spent his time taking out 
 an automated turret while I killed him, but that happened only once and to be honest I was quite 
 thankful it ignored me. Taking on one is almost always dicing with death, but it is a gamble worth 
 taking as you can gain the substance Adam (Which is used as a sort of currency) from either killing 
 or harvesting Little Sisters. Its a nice dilemma, and there are immediate and long-lasting consequences 
 of both, though this isnt really a game of infanticide. Plasmids (A buzzword for magic) are also 
 a somewhat useful addition in your arsenal, though some you probably will not use and some are 
 a lot less effective than bullets. The most common one you will use is the Electrobolt for dealing 
 with mechanical enemies, and Incinerate for a few enemies, but ones like Telekinesis are totally 
 unremarkable.
  
  Finally, it would have been nice to have more RPG elements, for example saving items like cigarettes 
 and drinks for when you need them instead of a one-off use as soon as you pick them up. If youre 
 looking to become part of an ecosystem or world like S. T. A. L. K. E. R, you can forget it as there 
 are virtually no safe-havens anywhere - Splicers appear to spawn everywhere and unfortunately there 
 is little point staying in one place for very long and there is no time to take a breather as everyone 
 you meet is insane. To conclude and answer my own question, while the game play is nothing revolutionary, 
 the story is something that surpasses most other games and it is worth labouring on through the 
 more boring parts of the game to hear more stories and get to the next place, because the story 
 is worth it. Bioshock is one of the best games of the year, and it may be one of the final great 
 games of DirectX 9 before we see the likes of Crysis on the shelves, and if so it is a game to 
 remember but I wouldnt go so far as to say that this is a landmark game in the way Half-Life 2 
 was or a landmark in the way that the true next-generation should be.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grarap
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  So much has been said about Bioshock that I feel there is very little that I can add to the game 
 in terms of praise. Never before has a game managed to achieve such a wonderful mix of gameplay, 
 graphics and storyline. I'm afraid that the tired cliche of a 'living, breathing world' really 
 does apply to the marvelous city of Rapture, and I think that the Steampunk-esque art style of 
 the game is nothing short of genuius.
  
  However, Bioshock isn't perfect. That may dissapoint some avid fans, but thankfully the game never 
 lets you down in a big way. There are just a few niggles that I feel should be raised. For one, 
 whilst the developer descision to let the story be told through audio-diaries certainly keeps the 
 action moving, it can often be extremely difficult to follow the plot. I for one missed nearly 
 the entire first few hours of the storyline, which made catching up later on in the game nearly 
 impossible. Obviously, some will have better attention spans than me, but I feel that it's an issue 
 that should be raised.
  
  Then there's the generally lack of variety in enemies. All you face in the game are splicers and 
 the famed Big-Daddies. Splicers, whilst compelling characters due to their human undertones, don't 
 offer much variety in combat. Whilst a STALKER-like mix of mutants and humans would have spoiled 
 the feel of the game, the all-in-one human-yet-monster feel of the Splicers is I feel a cop out, 
 and an excuse not to provide any other NPCs in the game. The bosses you encounter are always 'merely' 
 insane, and never freakishly-mutated humanoids as you might expect.
  
  There are other minor quibbles I have with the game too. Subtitles are never synched properly, 
 some weapons and plasmids are near-useless, et cetera et cetera. That said and done, Bioshock stands 
 as a pinicle of gaming achievement, and will remain a classic for years to come. Hopefully this 
 title will serve as a shining beacon to other developers, urging them to experiment in gameplay 
 and atmosphere as 2K Boston has done here. 'Ahead of it's time' is an apt description. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danm_999
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  While Bioshock can at times be a little easy, and doesn't last as long as you'd like, it's a blast 
 while it's going.
  
  Visually, the game hits a home run in both technical (in Dx10 looking amazing) and artistic realms 
 (a great mix of retro and futuristic) . The first time you lay eyes on Rapture.... wow.
  
  The game play is crisp and interesting, harping back to the almost RPG style FPS ala Deus Ex and 
 System Shock 2.
  
  The visuals are great; the voice acting and various journals of Rapture tell a convincing and engaging 
 story and the music is a perfect fit. Nothing quite as immersive as hearing 'How much is that doggy 
 in the window' play on a scratchy old juke box while you slaughter splicers. As for value; buy 
 the PC version. It's cheaper and you'll get a kick out of the modding scene. Rent the 360 version, 
 there's really no reason for more than one play through on 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RetailGamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Probably notbut what a great FPS!!! I enjoyed this game from second it went into my system. The 
 training level is good and lets you really ease into the game. The story line is great and it will 
 throw you a few curve balls. That being said there are a couple of different endings, dont worry 
 I wont spoil them so play it your self and Harvest or Save the Little Sisters and obliterate 
 the Big Daddys. This game will have you on the edge of your seat all the way through. You can pick 
 up this game and play for a half hour, but the question is can you turn off your system after 30 
 minutes. I couldnt. This FPS is amazing, the only thing lacking is Co-op. This would have added 
 even more replay value for you gaming buck. All in all buy it, play it, beat it, and play it again. 
 -RetailGamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wargamer89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  I think I can sum the game up in one word: wow. To me, Bioshock was just the title PC gaming needed 
 to bring it back from what seems like a recent decline in game quality. Jeremy of purepwnage. com 
 said it best, It's like, game developers are too busy playing WoW to like, design games that pwn. 
 (That's probably misquoted) The game really stands out as one of the year's best, and I would go 
 so far as to call it a shoo-in for Game of the Year. Despite its fair share of minor bugs, Bioshock 
 is a blast, and a must-have for any gamer with a respectable collection of titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob9999999999
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I want to first admit that i haven't played all the way through Bioshock yet. My comments aren't 
 really about the gameplay. I am one of the people who suffer from a COMPLETE LACK OF IN GAME AUDIO. 
 I mean, that sux. If the game had a little bug or something whatever, but the audio is an INTEGRAL 
 PART of the game. How did this not come up in testing? I mean... apparently I'm not alone. Now 
 i admit, i can run the game in XP MODE and the audio works, but i want to be able to run with Vista 
 (correct me if im wrong but isn't it going to steal processor time to run in XP emulator?) Cool 
 game 2K, but plz fix this problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XerenX_Storm
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  this has to be one of the best games i have ever played the graphics are the best i have seen on 
 anything and the amount of fun and excitement you have during the game is umbelievable i recomend 
 this to anyone with an xbox 360 or pc..... it will keep you busy until the launch of halo 3 The 
 the game totally rocks it is one of my all time favourates and i guarantee it will bwe in yours 
 :) l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlockWSO
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I personally had no install issues until yesterday when AVG decided that my bioshock. exe file was 
 a virus and deleted it. After updating AVG today, I've had no other issues so far - no stutters, 
 no mouse lag, only gaming bliss with Athlon FX60, 8800 GTX, and max settings. This game is well 
 worth the install issues, and I've only seen 2kgames be proactive to handle people's complaints.
 
  
  I've only finished the first two levels, but so far the game is a perfect mix of story and action 
 - a rarity these days. The copy-protect/activation rules have been appropriately loosened, although 
 I agree with the masses that they should go away completely. At least the root kit rumor appears 
 to be false.
  
  Overall, my score is based primarily on the gameplay. I would have put a 10 up there if I didn't 
 have the 1st-day-of-release issues. Anyone buying the game now should have smoother sailing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubermensche
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited about this game as many. And no, I don't think the software protection is a 
 bad thing. Seriously people, it was only down a few hours. Get a life.
  
  The positives of this game are many. For starters, the obvious visuals are fantastic. I am running 
 a AMD X2 5600, 2GB RAM, and a Geforce 7800GT card and it runs awesome on high settings. It would 
 be nice to run in DX10 to see the difference. The ability to play the game to your liking is wide. 
 The only issue with this is that the weapons are weak without combining them with the plasmids. 
 It would be nice if you were able to play more weapons heavy or plasmid heavy, but it's kind of 
 handicapped because the developers obviously wanted you to experiment with the plasmids. The plasmids 
 are what separates Bioshock from the rest of the shooters.
  
  Hacking is another awesome aspect of this game. The ability to manipulate the environment to your 
 advantage is what makes this game so special. Being able to turn enemies units into friends is 
 a great way to avoid damage and fight off larger crowds. I also like the weapon upgrade system. 
 This is another great aspect that allows you to customize to your liking.
  
  The downsides are pointed out in the gamespot review. The fact that you just die and start over 
 with everything the way it was works in some ways well, bu the only problem is that it takes away 
 from the strategy of the game. If they wanted to add a death penalty then they would have had to 
 make the Big Daddy's weaker in order to make the game beatable. They are VERY tough.
  
  The story is pretty good with some nice twists and turns. It definitely keeps you going for more. 
 I found this game to be not as scary as I thought it would be, but nonetheless, very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glyndwr87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is of course the big hit of 2007, long awaited, critically acclaimed and extremely well 
 marketed. This a game that will sell by the truck load so really a review is a redundant piece 
 of journalism however it seems all games need them, and the more of them there are the more accurate 
 the scoring of the game. Thus the cycle doth endlessly repeat.
  
  This review, I am unabashed to say is being written in a state of drunkenness. However that aside 
 onto the game. Bioshock is at first glances a nice and shiny FPS, however that is what it remains 
 for most of it's lifespan. No matter how much hype you read about the story behind rapture it is 
 in noway the mammoth piece of storytelling the so called critics claim it to be. The story is a 
 basic one, it is a predicable affair, which makes it's big centre piece of plot alteration all 
 the more nauseating. However, this does not mean that the game it's self is unbearable. The combat 
 in engaging, the graphical stylings are frankly the best i've ever seen in a game and the enemies 
 and their A. I are some of the best seen in not only the genre but the whole of Electronic Entertainment. 
 Imagine if you will those tech demo's we see for new Nvidia and ATI chipsets and watch as they 
 come to life in an art deco wilderness filled with buzzing machinery, rebelling security systems 
 and an engaging sound track mixed with real life oldies and atmospheric storytelling from the NPC's 
 themselves.
  
  This review will be short, in fact it can be placed into these few words: BUY THIS GAME
  
  
 However, some of the shortcomings of the game are thus:
  
  The combat becomes generic, the inventive use of plasmids means alot of juggling on the part of 
 the player which tends to take you out of the moment of combat. The complete lack of a death penalty 
 makes any boss encounters and tough Big Daddie fights almost simplistic. A number of times I would 
 die and respawn with the Big Daddie right infront of me, making the combat a matter of wrenching 
 the poor sod until i died then rinsing and repeating until the behemoth was dead.
  
  The story is told through various Diaries found throughout the game world, and unless you spend 
 alot of time finding them and then finding a nice quiet corner to listen to them you will be a 
 little disappointed when the plot twists emerge.
  
  Because of it's story telling style alot of the game feels anti-climactic. You fight huge hordes 
 of enemies and piece together odd contraptions for a conclusion that leaves you feeling a little 
 disorientated. The lack of variety in the enemies becomes boring after a while.
  
  I could go on, but frankly I'm bored writing about it. This a game not to be missed, if only for 
 it's appealing graphical style, inventive use of enemies and fun puzzle solving. However it is 
 NOT the new benchmark for FPS games. That title still belongs to Half-Life 2, story tellings is 
 an art form, and Bioshock whilst very close, just misses the mark by a fraction of an inch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorched1992
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  BioShock is an absolutely amazing game. The first time I played this game it just wowed me the 
 whole way through. The game makes you feel like you're in the world. It's somewhat linear but it 
 feels like it's not. It feels like you have the ability to explore the world and the use of different 
 plasmids can make completely different experiences.
  
  The first thing I want to talk about in this game is the sound and it is amazing. The music fits 
 together with things going on in the world. The Big Daddies sound amazing. You can hear there footsteps 
 and moans as they walk around rapture. Hearing the splicers talk to themselves sounds amazing to. 
 It adds a creepy feeling to the game. If you have a sound card and decent 5.1 surround sound speakers 
 you will love the sound in this game.
  
  The gameplay in this game is great too. You can play it through many times with different experiences. 
 The plasmids and tonics add lots of choice to how you deal with enemies and the Big Daddies are 
 extremely fun to fight. *SPOILER ALERT* The little sisters are not exactly big choices in the game 
 though. You choose good and save them or you choose evil and harvest them the only thing that factors 
 into the game is how the saved little girls respond to you in a certain part of the game and the 
 cutseen at the end. Also in my opinion the evil cutseen is pretty lame and seems like it's just 
 thrown in there. It really doesn't go with the game. On the other hand the good cutseen is actually 
 a much better ending that I found much more satisfying. I also need to say something about the 
 boss fight at the end which did not go with the game at all. It was ok but It seemed like it was 
 thrown in there from another game and didn't really belong but it was ok. *SPOILER END* The hacking 
 game is pretty fun but it can get boring after awhile but i give it a thumbs up. It's very easy 
 on PC. I have played both versions and find the PC version is better mainly because of controls. 
 There is also better graphics on the PC version but it's not enough to really enough to notice. 
 Thy obviously didn't put much time into making it better on DX10 but thats understandable since 
 not many have DX10 cards.
  
  Also one more thing great about this game is that the world of rapture is beautiful. The water 
 effects look great and the whole art style is amazing. The game is absolutely beautiful.
  
  Some people complain about this game's difficulty level. The game is really easy since there is 
 really no penalty for dying. You just die and respawn at a vita chamber. Even on the hard difficulty 
 it is easy, but this keeps the game going and makes it continue to be fun. Not having to start 
 over is great. The arrow and glowing objectives can be turned off if you don't like it so don't 
 worry about those. There are no load times when you die either so thats good. Anyway the game makes 
 up for it being so easy with it's amazing story and dialog. Finding the audio diaries is always 
 fun because you get a little piece of story that may be unimportant but still helps you understand 
 whats gone on a little more. *SPOILER ALERT* The only problem I had with one of the audio diaries 
 was that it said something like this: Oh my lord we saw a little sister harvesting a corpse today... 
 Now this is somewhat strange. Throughout the game I was wondering the use of little sisters before 
 rapture's civil war. I guess they still harvested corpses. Thats kind of strange seeing corpses 
 lying around rapture before it's downfall. It's not a big deal, I just thought I should point that 
 out.*SPOILER END*
  
  To rap this review up I would like to say that this is an absolutely amazing game. So please go 
 buy this game. Would you kindly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james28893
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Plane crash, giant light-house-ish thing, look inside, get in an programmed bath tub, creepy voice 
 starts to play accompanied by a superb score. This is how it begins, one of the greatest plots 
 of gaming history. The game doesn't have a singal cutscene, following in the footsteps of Half-Life 
 2. Each environment looks better than the last (pretty much) and each demi-boss is creepier. The 
 Big Daddy / Little Sister combo is actually a minor part of the game, you don't see the Little 
 Sister dying if you choose to harvest her though you end up getting better rewards if you rescue 
 them. The only major plot difference if you harvest them is the ending. There are so many twists 
 in the plot that you'd think it was a pretzel (geddit) . The one downer is the combat system, which 
 will not impress an FPS fanatic. BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbojangles25
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  BioShock. A gamer would have to be living under a rock for the past year or two not to know of 
 this game. It promised so much, such as amazing AI, interesting environments, a good story, and 
 most importantly great action. Despite all this hype, Bioshock is only solid shooter, it falls 
 far short of what it should have been, especially given all the talent behind it.
  
  Visually BioShock is extremely beautiful. On a Dx9 computer, the game looks amazing so I cannot 
 imagine what it looks like with a Dx10-capable rig. Smoke, water, and fire are three components 
 that got a lot of attention, and in a game where atmosphere is crucial the developers did not ignore 
 the importance of good visuals.
  
  Speaking of atmosphere, Bioshock executes this aspect extremely well. Rapture, the city where the 
 game takes place, is entirely underwater and throughout the game the player is always reminded 
 of this fact. While interior design might give the impression that youre in a 1940's building in 
 New York, there are always subtle or not-so-subtle reminders of the water; a leaking pipe, a quick 
 stroll through a glass hallway between buildings, and even a flooding or two. Add to this eery 
 environment the fact that there are signs of struggle and violence everywhere and you get a very 
 creepy atmosphere that never lets you feel at ease.
  
  In terms of gameplay, BioShock felt fairly average and, at the most, full of a few gimmicks. While 
 it plays much like a regular shooter with guns and stuff, BioShock also incorporates upgrades called 
 plasmids . Plasmids are fueled by Eve (BioShocks version of mana) and can be used to various purposes. 
 Ultimately, I felt that plasmids fell short in terms of innovation: the useful plasmids felt just 
 like another gun or tool (the lightning plasmid felt like a stun gun, the flame plasmid felt like 
 a flamethrower, and the telekinesis felt like an unsatisfying ripoff of Halflife 2's amazing gravity 
 gun) . Even worse, the more innovative plasmids that should have seen more action were not used 
 enough! One especially neat plasmid that caused an enemy tagged with it caused security bots to 
 swarm it, and it would have been nice to see this happen more often, but opportunities were lacking 
 and when you only have six slots for plasmids, you have to be picky about what you want.
  
  One amazing concept of BioShock is the Big Daddy and Little Sister component. This alone makes 
 for an amazing game, as a full-on fight with a Big Daddy is very fun and challenging. Even better, 
 after defeating the Big Daddy, you are entitled to your reward: the precious adam, the currency 
 that allows you to buy plasmids. I wont spoil it for the uninitiated, but there is a moral choice 
 attached to how you treat the little sisters that ultimately determines the end of the game.
  
  My major problems with BioShock is the length; over the span of four days, I was able to beat 
 BioShock not only quickly, but with relative ease. And it only took about 10 hours, far shorter 
 than the 40 hours promised to us by the developers. Another issue that makes me upset is the fact 
 that once again it feels like a should-be great game dumbed down into a decent game for consoles. 
 While players knew there would be no RPG components to the game, it would have been nice to have 
 an inventory system and some sort of skill up system. Instead, we get a relatively straight forward 
 shooter with some gimmicks.
  
  Score:
  Graphics: 9/10
  Audio: 9/10
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Value: 7/10
  Tilt: 7/10
  
  Total: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acarrillo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Esta trama esta muy enredada no apta para la gente con clavoz gruesos en la cabeza osea mentalmente 
 mal ajajaja aes muy buen juego agrega un arte que no solo es atractivo por lo bien trabajado si 
 no por su muy particular forma de manipular las armas y los detalles en la expresion genera una 
 esquizofrenia y temor a la hora de jugar que al fin y al cabo son herramientas muy bien armadas 
 en el juego. para resumir mil respetos aunque macabramente interesante propuesta.
  
  la forma de ataque y defensa es muy interesante hasta un punto mas humano que es lo que se busca 
 considero que casi llegan pero aun falta! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RelXe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  That's it... a nice game. Don't really understand what the fuzz is about this game? It's not so 
 special.
  Graphics are nice, running all on max and 1280x960.
  Gameplay is cool, especially the magical attributes.
  The shooting lacks a bit of value though.... 
 Like the thompson, it just doesn't feel right.
  The best thing about the game is i think the way you play the game. It's really the way you play 
 the game.
  You can either make it really hard for yourself if you dont play the game right, or make it allot 
 easier for yourself if you use every advantage you have.
  Overall... nice game, overrated. But maybe that's because i didn't have high expectations cuz i've 
 waited like 2 weeks for this game :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smiley451
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  No doubt you've heard of this game, it's been all over the gaming news before release and has been 
 ranked the number 1 game for over a week since release, so far. And it has definitely earned this 
 great honor. Bioshock was developed by Irrational Games, creator of System Shock 2, which is considered 
 the greatest PC game ever made. I would say Bioshock is now the greatest PC game ever made. You 
 start off with a plane crash over the ocean, but swim your way to a giant lighthouse. You discover 
 the lighthouse is actually the entrance to a massive, underwater city. Through diaries you pick 
 up along the way, you figure out that this city was built for the architect, the artist, the scientist, 
 the author, the inventor, the great. But Rapture's citizens made their own doom. Driven insane 
 and mutilated by their scientific advances the city fell to pieces. You are attacked wherever you 
 go, but you must survive. The only way to survive in this hellish world is to adapt, keep moving. 
 You don't stand a chance against Rapture without using Rapture itself. This is where plasmids come 
 in, Rapture's greatest prize and the reason it was destroyed. The ability to light anything on 
 fire with only a snap of your fingers. Move objects with only your mind. Freeze your enemies and 
 shatter them to pieces. To zap anything within sight with 1,000 volts of electricity. You use plasmids, 
 guns, the environment, even your enemies themselves, to your advantage. Rapture is a breathtaking 
 city, especially when it's falling apart and filled with insane mutants. This game is so open-ended 
 it will keep you playing over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chi-You-Man
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  If i am honest, up until about june i had not heard much about bioshock, besides its name. But 
 then screenshots started to crop up, and it intrigued me more and more.
  Well now its finally out, and its one hell of a game. I must say it has to be one of the most atmospheric 
 games i have ever played. Creepy enemies behind every corner, lights going out, footsteps and weird 
 voices, which can really creep you out sometimes. Another key thing i loved about Bioshock was 
 the story. It is definitely unique, involving an evil man named Andrew Ryan, and his underwater 
 city. Thinks called Plasmids have made the inhabitants of this underwater city go crazy for power, 
 and they will do anything for it, even killing small children. Plasmids are like powers, the player 
 has the opportunity to use these in the game. Some of these include a swarm of bees, fire, electric 
 shocking and telekinesis. These powers a executed perfectly, and give the game an amazing sense 
 of variety and pace. The story all unfolds in this seedy underwater environment, which is captured 
 and mapped perfectly. Also another cool thing about the game is its so well put together, and so 
 cinematic it feels like you are playing a movie. The beginning of the game felt like a rid at a 
 theme park its so cinematic. Match this with the Awesome graphics of the Unreal Engine 3 and you 
 have yourself an epic illusion. In the game you can also go and hunt little sisters. Little sisters 
 contain adam, which is the power source of plasmids and various other upgrades. Little sisters 
 are mutated girls which contain the adam, and you can choose to harvest them to get the most adam, 
 or be nice and turn them back into little girls, but get less adam. This almost gives the game 
 a good an evil feature also.
  I can not particularly think of any faults in the game, accept there is no multiplayer. Regardless 
 of what the developers said about the fact it would have ruined the game i disagree, and think 
 that a well implemented multiplayer would have been cool here. All in all bioshock is an awesome 
 single player experience that you must check out, and if you here anyone saying its overrated give 
 them a punch from me. The Good: Cinematic, Atmospheric, Good Story, Pretty Graphics and Detail
 
  The Bad: No Multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Malius19
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  I was throughly impressed by the consistent and detailed art deco theme. This era reminds me of 
 the time when mental institutions were popular, gangsters and Tommy Guns were synonymous. On the 
 technical side the game play is wall thought out and the graphics, physics, game engine are well 
 polished. The plasmids concept is refreshing giving an RPG like experience with out the xp treadmill. 
 I'm not a big fan of linear class progression and feat trees, but plasmids and ADAM give a great 
 alternative.
  
  My only complaint is the story line. Ryan makes a memorable evil misguided villain, but his commission 
 of suicide by your hand (read: mind control) is rather mysterious. Why not use your genetic flaw 
 for his own gain? Also the plot line is very linear. The war between fountaine and ryan is an excellent 
 place to let you choose your path, like with the little sis's. Overall great game worth of time 
 spent playing and the money spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  .. I still found this to be a bit repetitive. There's only so many big daddy's that I would want 
 to take on and have enough patience to hear them stomping down the corridors half an hour later 
 again. I think there should have been more diversity in the way the little sisters are looked after. 
 Why should everything be the same constantly? Why can't there be a new and interesting type of 
 boss that looks after each little sister instead of te same big fat muppets that are guarding her?
 
  
  Look, apart from that it has definately been an addicting and fun experience. But I still believe 
 it could have been less repetitive and more mysterious. A good example is all the different kind 
 of splicers you encounter. If they implemented these differences into those big daddy's, then I 
 could almost give this the mid 9's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspking111
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is deffinetly what the hype is saying, its a good FPS but with a twist, its kind 
 of a resource hog but it looks beautiful on low settings, this game has so many surprizes and plot 
 twists. It would be a Game of the year no doubt, The game mixes some RPG aspects into the game 
 as well, Upgrading Weapons and Ablities ( AKA Plasmids) , The Weird Mix of scary and suspensful 
 and beautiful scenery makes the game a sure thriller, killing enemy's (Splicers) make you feal powerful 
 until the machines, come out ( Big Daddy's) . I do have to admit when you first start out the AI 
 is kinda... well stupid. Running up to them and shoicking them and then hitting them with a wrench, 
 easy as pie right? Well i thought so untill the 6 or 7th chapter when enemy'd took 5 or 6 hits 
 froma wrench or sometimes more then 10 bullets (2 if hit in head) . Well this game is an easy game 
 of the year nomeny and also its a game you cant pass up. Its Deffinetly Worth the 50 clams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radx800pro
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  The Hype: After seeing the videos and screenshots leading up to the release of Bioshock, I was 
 concerned that it was all hype because of the many games that don't live up, or can't provide the 
 quality in the actual game. Well Bioshock doesn't only deliver what it promised but goes beyond 
 my expectations!
  
  Graphics: This part is all about the dx9 visuals. My biggest concerns were wether it would play 
 stable and look that good. I think it actually looks better than the screenshots because with the 
 game in motion, it looks better! The visuals are very satisfying and helps draw you in. If you 
 have the rig to run it maxed out you will not be disappointed. If you don't, it still looks great 
 on medium settings as well. With a game looking this good you would wonder if the game could run 
 smooth. I can honestly say that it runs better than other lower quality games out there! With the 
 Unreal engine we should look forward to more amazing looking games to come!
  
  Sound: The Sound is just as immersive and balances the game out with the awesome visuals! The Voice 
 overs are crystal clear and done top notch! My only beef with it was the diary messages seemed 
 a bit to soft and washed out if you are in a noisy area.
  
  Gameplay: Here's where the game really gets fun! The way they setup the controls and switching 
 between weapons and plasmids is extremily satisfying! Everything runs so smooth and the automated 
 addons are a nice (easy) touch. Some weapons are somewhat erratic and not as effective as others. 
 While you would think this is a downside, I feel it gives the game more of a challenge. You need 
 to decide which weapon is suitable for the foe your facing and which type of ammo to equip. The 
 Little Sisters: The game also gives you a chance to change the way the game plays in how you treat 
 the litttle sisters. You can destroy them or save them. I prefer the latter because you may not 
 benefit right away from saving them, but rewards you get makes this option better in rewards in 
 the long run.
  
  Cons: I'm yet to really find any cons worth discussing. The one i will say that bothered me was 
 with Vista. When i tried to run it on Vista I lost about 40fps and had to lower the visual settings. 
 I also couldn't see the difference in dx9 and dx10 that were noticable. Some people have said the 
 game gets repetative. I haven't found this to be true. A game I'd call repetative is FEAR. Bioshock 
 gives you knew things as you continue through the game and the story keeps going to the end. I'd 
 highly recommend this game to any FPS fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purcusionist
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I gotta say that I just love the retro feel of this game! The graphics are stylish, and how bout 
 that water? Freaking awesome! The same goes for the sounds in this game, which set the mood quite 
 well. Above all else, this game is just fun to play! Killing these freaks in Rapture just feels 
 so good, with all the multiple ways to deal your death! All this coming from someone who has'nt 
 been a big fan of FPS! I think maybe Bioshock has now made me a fan of the Genre. If you were like 
 me, maybe it will for you as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetmedic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  What can I say. ..?
  Well after the thousand or so WW II shooters out there It's nice to see a great origional story 
 line. Bioshock give me the feeling I had the first time I played HL &amp; HL 2. Dark Messiah and 
 STALKER almost did it but with all the bugs ithey fell a bit short. I have herd of some people 
 having issues with playability but so far I'm smooth sailing; save for the occasional hanging fireball. 
 The Hack feature while it does get a little old after a while is a great twist and all the choices 
 to be made @ vending machines, Uinvents, and weapon upgrades as well as the variety in which you 
 can dispatch you enemies seems to give this game great replayability. Well I off. time to get back 
 to rapture and see what else is in store for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe-cat
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  It's been a long while since the System Shock games dropped jaws with it's unique twist on First 
 Person Shooters (FPS) . That was back before the people at Irrational Games became 2K Boston/Australia. 
 It's because of the name change that certain fans of the System Shock style of FPS might have felt 
 left nothing but a fond memory of the games. To be honest, even as a fan of the System Shocks I 
 didn't begin to realize what Bioshock really was until shortly before it's release. What exactly 
 is it? Another revolutionary First Person Shooter that even someone who'd never heard of Irrational 
 or System Shock can enjoy, and probably will.
  
  The game combines the traditional idea of a First Person Shooter game with some unique elements 
 that are very reminiscent of RPG style games. Throughout the course of the game the character is 
 able to augment their genetics to give them skills ranging from projectile lightning to becoming 
 a living hive, with lots of variety in between. In fact there's so much variety that you can never 
 have it all, thus each time you play the game through you can choose different abilities and see 
 how it effects gameplay.
  
  Of course even an innovative game wouldn't be that great without an interesting storyline. In the 
 case of Bioshock, how the story is pieced together is also very interesting. Throughout the course 
 of the game your character will find recordings from various characters each giving you little 
 clues that help you put the pieces together and come to your own assumptions about just what exactly 
 was going on before you came along. The tale that is unraveling before you is as grim as your spooky 
 surroundings. There are even a couple great plot twists at one point in the game that really added 
 an element to the overall game.
  
  Innovation, great gameplay, incredible graphics, and a beautifully horrifying backdrop all wrapped 
 up by a great storyline... what more could a gamer ask for. This game is definitely a must for 
 any PC gamer and there's even an Xbox-360 version for console fans. I would highly recommend this 
 game and would rate it 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  After the World War II, a certain man named Andrew Ryan founded a city at the bottom of the sea 
 where, as he claimed, The artist would not fear the censor. Where the scientist would not be 
 bound by petty morality. Where the great would not be contained by the small He named his city: 
 Rapture. In this secret city, worlds brightest scientists were free to think and to experiment. 
 And so, it was only a matter of time until they made a few breakthroughs. But the most decisive 
 of them was Adam, a substance generated by deep sea parasites. When attached to a host, the parasite 
 produces new stem cells healing the host. The new stem cells allowed the host to take on external 
 genetic modifications that take over their normal cell structure. These genetic modifications could 
 be either medicinal cures or pure vanity changes.
  
  Of course, Adam gained an immediate success. Instant genetic modifications became even more and 
 more popular over the years, and then everything went horribly wrong. Raptures citizens, drugged 
 to Adam, became to slowly lose their minds. As their personality was fading away, they became more 
 aggressive and more violent. They began to kill each others, starving for some Adam to increase 
 their powers and their physical appearance. Rapture is now corrupted. Its only a shade of the 
 glorious city it once was. Most remaining citizens, now called slicers, completely deformed physically 
 and mentally by the Adam, are now hunting down the Little Sisters. Those corrupted children wander 
 around Rapture, collecting and recycling the Adam they find in corpses disseminated around the 
 city. The Little Sisters are protected by huge genetically modified protectors: the Big Daddies, 
 whose only goal is to protect, at any cost, the Little Sisters from any aggressor that might show 
 off in the way. The few remaining sane citizens trying to flee from Ryans influence are considered 
 as parasites and are hunted down without mercy by the slicers too.
  
  Youre the only survivor of a plane crash over the Atlantic. Fortunately, or maybe unfortunately, 
 you crashed right near Raptures main entrance: a lonesome lighthouse in the middle of the sea. 
 Leaded by curiosity and the will to survive, you blindly ventured there. What is this place? What 
 happened here? Will you be able to fight your way out of this hell? 
  
  BioShock is a very interesting game, where patient exploration and intense fight sequences come 
 along in a perfect combination. I can say for sure that the developers definitely and brightly 
 reached their goal to reinvent Firs-Person Shooter genre. The games best strength certainly 
 is its deep and intriguing atmosphere created by an ingenious mix of spectacular environments, 
 excellent soundtrack and very realistic sound effects.
  
  First of all, there is Rapture. The idea of a city at the bottom of the sea, completely isolated 
 from the outside world, gave great possibilities to the developers to freely use their imagination. 
 Everything, from the well-thought retro 50s style to the huge metallic structures, seems strange, 
 unreal, but so wonderful at the same time. The games different environments such as the creepy 
 clinic of the Medical Pavilion and the luxurious forest of Arcadia contribute greatly to give to 
 the game its so interesting atmosphere. Of course, impressive graphics and visual effects helped 
 a lot to define and improve the beauty of those environments.
  
  BioShocks soundtrack is also a very important point of the game. Although it isnt particularly 
 impressive, it helps a lot in creating an intriguing atmosphere and in maintaining a certain level 
 of excitement. The different themes are often cut by long, heavy and stressful silences to add 
 a creepy note to the action. But, as I wrote earlier, those themes arent very catchy and I consider 
 that to be a good thing as it helps the player to stay focused on the action. Sound effects are 
 particularly important in creating the desired atmosphere too. While some noises seem a little 
 out of place, screams, cries, footsteps, breaths and especially voices are very well made. The 
 voice acting is surprisingly good, very realistic and, in a certain way, very entertaining. BioShock 
 is very different from other shooters as its focused mainly on Raptures story and decline. That 
 story is told via Audio Diaries found all around the city. By hearing those diaries, youll soon 
 realize that Raptures past is extremely deep, complicated and confused, but its easy to understand 
 the importance of Adam and Plasmids and the role they played in Raptures fall. Characters also 
 play in important role in the game. As the city is now divided by many internal conflicts, the 
 game focuses a lot on how the characters, rebels and Ryans henchmen, interact with each others.
 
  
  The games main gameplay and controls arent very different from any other shooter. Both novices 
 and experienced FPS players should not have any trouble at all in getting used to the controls. 
 While the game doesnt offer any co-op or online gameplay possibilities, the single-player campaign 
 by itself is very entertaining and lasts long enough (20-30 hours at least) to be sufficiently 
 satisfied. BioShock also offers some replay possibilities, as its always possible to visit new 
 places and to beat the game again in a different way with different plasmids and strategies or 
 with a harder difficulty setting. There are three difficulty settings: easy, medium and hard. But 
 the game is mostly easy anyway, no matter which difficulty setting you choose, as you cant really 
 die as you will always respawn somewhere near the place where you died with all your ammunitions, 
 EVE hypos and first aid kits and even some health and EVE. The enemies you managed to hurt before 
 your death will still have those injuries; they wont get healed. So if youre stuck somewhere 
 against a particularly strong enemy such as a Bid Daddy or a Boss, you could carelessly fight again 
 and again and you would end up victorious anyway.
  
  The gameplay is mostly based on the use of Plasmid, Tonics and Adam. The only way you can survive 
 around Rapture is to genetically modify your own body with different powers (Plasmids) and enhancements 
 (Tonics) . Those Plasmids and Tonics can be found hidden around Rapture or can be purchased with 
 some Adam at characteristic machines named Gatherers Garden. The only sources of Adam in Rapture 
 are the Little Sisters so you must get close to them in order to get the Adam. And the only way 
 to do so is to get rid of the Big Daddies. The Big Daddies are some of the strongest foes in the 
 game. Theyre fast, strong, and they can take hits. Fight them wisely, think, act quickly and use 
 your surroundings. Theyre not that hard to beat if you use some decent strategy but still, stay 
 focused or you might end up with a hole in place of your head. Youll also need some EVE to make 
 the Plasmids work. When your EVE bar runs low, you can replenish it with the EVE hypos you find 
 hidden around Rapture and on corpses. EVE hypos can also be purchased at a modest cost at the Circus 
 of Values machines.
  
  While Plasmids and Tonics are very important in fights, an interesting arsenal of weapons is available 
 for you to use. Weaponry isnt as developed in BioShock as it is in other shooters but still, it 
 offers a bunch of nice features and possibilities when used in concert with Plasmids. Totally, 
 there are eight different weapons: the wrench, the pistol, the machine gun, the shotgun, the grenade 
 thrower, the camera, the chemical thrower and the crossbow. Each weapon (except the camera) can 
 shoot three different types of bullets. For example, the shotgun can shoot 00 bucks, electric bucks 
 and exploding bucks. Every enemy is weak to certain weapons and types of bullet. Take pictures 
 of your enemies with the camera to reveal those weaknesses and to fight your foes more effectively. 
 Your weapons can be upgraded for free at the Power to People machines. However, those machines 
 can be used only once so think carefully before upgrading your weapons.
  
  BioShock is an outstanding game, but its got a few flaws. The PC version requires a bunch of recent 
 and powerful hardware (essentially the graphic card and the processor) to run the game correctly. 
 The game has no real widescreen support and its impossible to configure the controls at your ease. 
 The game tends to freeze sometimes, but maybe that just because of my laptop. It is said that the 
 Xbox 360 version tends to lag too, but, again, I believe it depends of the players machine. There 
 arent any major differences between the PC version and the Xbox 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nekimoto
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  When I played the Demo on Xbox 360 I was amazed of how well the game looked. I was saying to myself, 
 Wow, I hope this will run on my PC. The day the game came out I got Bioshock for PC, looking at 
 the recommended settings on the back, I was saying, Are you fricking kidding me?! so I went and 
 installed the game and I let the game auto detect my settings and it set the game to high. Am2 
 athlon 4200 dual core 2.2 ghz, 1gb xms2 corsair ram, Nvidia Geforce 7800 GT. I played this game 
 all the way through with barely any frame drops, and 95% of the time the game ran well even with 
 multiple enemies on screen. To say the least, you can tweak this game to more playable settings 
 without much quality loss. Anyway, this game, a new experience and I really enjoyed it. The game 
 is a bit linear but that happens, there's not really much you can do about that, it's not Oblivion. 
 Besides that, this game is a lot of fun, the weapons and powers you got were amazing, I want to 
 play this game again because I enjoyed it that much. I hope this company goes on for a long time, 
 I sure as hell would like to work for them, they know what they are doing! Excellent game. My Real 
 Ratings are as follows.
  
  Gameplay - 9
  Graphics - 10
  Sound - 9
  Value - 9
  Tilt - 9
  
  Overall - 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rejected777
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  I never played any of the Systemshock games, so this was my first visit to the shock world. I can't 
 say I am very impressed either. Except for when it comes to graphics. The graphics are absolutely 
 wonderful.
  
  It doesn't matter if I am looking out the window, looking at surroundings indoors or just looking 
 at the enemies. They're all very well done. Animation is ok, nothing spectacular. They managed 
 to get that feeling of everything being wet or damp in a good way.
  
  The voice acting is good as well. Nothing spectacular, since you rarely have any conversations 
 with anyone. No wait, you NEVER have any conversation with anyone. All you do is listen to your 
 radio and random tapes you find. I always find it lacking when the main character is void of personality 
 and lines to speak.
  
  The story then?
  Well, have you played Doom 3? Or F. E. A. R.? If you have, you know the drill. Listen to your radio, 
 listen to tapes scattered all over the place. That works well in both Doom 3 and F. E. A. R. for two 
 simple reasons. 1: In Doom 3, you are usually familiar with the setting, and what the game is about. 
 (I suspect most of you out there has played Doom 1 and/or Doom 2) In F. E. A. R. it all plays out 
 in our world. Also copied elements from Doom 3 (the scattered messages) and The Ring (scary little 
 girls who go on a killing spree) You can relate to these things. Bioshock? An underwater city in 
 the 1950's with scattered messages all over. Unregulated by any government except its own, which 
 is a crazy guy with too much money who built it all. First of all, the city is huge. In order to 
 have the funds to build it, you have to be so rich that if you add up all the money in the world 
 right now, it still wouldn't be enough. It's just a bit too extreme, at least for me and I am a 
 sci-fi nerd. It just doesn't strike me as believable. Also the scattered messages, it worked well 
 in Doom 3 and F. E. A. R. because you could relate. I really can't relate to an underwater world gone 
 insane in the 1950's. Sorry, I just can't.
  
  The main character is a mystery too. A lone survivor from a plane who crashed without any reason 
 (or so it seems, nothing in the story so far indicates why it crashed) who then when he enters 
 this strange underwater world, takes the first syringe he can find with a glowy content and proceeds 
 to shoot up. SAY WHAT? If I, especially in the 1950's with their very limited technology, found 
 an underwater city, believe me when I say that the first thing I do when I find a syringe with 
 a glowing content is NOT to inject it into anything. Story wise, too much doesn't add up. Ambitious 
 yes, but not believable.
  
  The game is fairly entertaining but not all it's cracked up to be.
  
  7.5 due to the fact that 
 it's well made and ambitious but fails in the long run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdjonsson
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  This is an exciting game in terms of the storytelling and the beautiful art direction. I'm excitedly 
 playing through it just to find out what happens next. My only complaint with the PC version is 
 that mouse acceleration makes precise aiming difficult. It's as if the mouse control were an afterthought 
 to the 360's analog stick. I'm hoping for a future patch to address this issue. It's about time 
 somebody brought some imagination back to the single-player gaming world. This is a game that has 
 some real depth and intelligence behind the story. Rapture is a gorgeous visual feast, and Ryan 
 is a villain worth hating. I've often thought that Objectivism is an immature and incomplete philosophy, 
 and the creators also share my sentiment. -- How often do you get to talk about philosophy in gaming? 
 Not often. Anyway, exciting title. I will be playing it to the end, and hoping for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: modai119
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  The Pros
  
  - Graphics are jaw dropping on a DX9 machine.
  
  - Sounds are just simply amazing from voice acting to ambient sounds.
  
  - The setting and 
 environment is very well done.
  
  The Cons
  
  - DX10 graphics looks like DX9 you'll barely notice any changes.
  
  - Death system has no penalty. 
 It's just you respawn and the AI would remain however you left it (Dead, half life, etc) .
  
  - Too little replay value. After you beat with good and bad ending theres nothing much to go back 
 to.
  
  - The hacking system is all chance and not by skill. It would be pretty much impossible to hack 
 near end game stuff without tonics etc.
  
  - The AI is very predictable. The lack of plasmids for them made this game feel repetitive, and 
 made the AI way too easy.
  
  - Last but not least the game is too short. I wasn't surprised cause most FPS genres are short 
 unfortunately.
  
  Closing comments
  
  If mod tools were to be released for PC then this game will be ALOT better take Oblivion for example. 
 Overall this game is great but certainly not GOTY material. I am a Dx10 machine owner and I'm quite 
 sad how my x1950pro on XP looks the same as my 8800GTX on Vista. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexh111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:05 am PT
Review:  The Good
  
  - It's certainly innovative. The mix of power and weapons is really interesting. Telekinesis is 
 a lot of fun.
  
  - The environment is fabulous (if your system can handle it)
  
  - The story is well-done and interesting, with good voice work.
  
  - The various vending machines 
 are pretty cool, really.
  
  The bad
  
  - I thought we had moved past some of the FPS silliness that seems prevalent here. I can carry 
 eight weapons but can't carry more than six bombs? I can't mix and match ammo? (when you have a 
 single shell of one ammo type, it's simply silly to be unable to fill the rest of the weapon with 
 another ammo type)
  
  A weight system would have been far more preferable.
  
  - The death system is laughable. I die and am magically transported to a vita-tube thing? But nobody 
 else is? It basically creates these silly battles of attack big daddy, die, attack big daddy, die, 
 attack big daddy, win. .
  
  - The game has zero replay value
  
  - The odds are pretty good that you are going to face audio problems or crashing before a patch 
 is released.
  
  So - it's a solid B+ game and not perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sieko22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Very few games have the a story with the ability to invade, delight and leave the mind wondering. 
 Bioshock does all this and more with it's many amazingly life-like and nex generation features.
 
  
  Bioshock's story is extremely involving and is like a movie that if you didn't quite get the first 
 time, you want to watch it again and again until you've experienced every last detail. The game 
 play of Bioshock is immensely realistic from the realistic physics, to the various ability to upgrade 
 nearly anything, as well as the life-like graphics. The graphics easily are the best I've seen 
 and regardless the cost of a computer and upgrades, I would still need to have this game.
  This game is revolutionary in many ways from the amazing powers you can wield, to the completely 
 interactive and fantastically intricate environments.
  
  If there was anything negative I'd have to say about this game that stops it from getting a perfect 
 10 would be that when you complete the game, you are left wanting more and more.
  
  Bioshock is a revolution to video games and the never ending possibilities. It's realism leaves 
 your mind boggled about what it reality and what is just a game as you carry on in life.
  
  Bioshock is absolutely a must buy for not only FPS gamers, but for anyone ready for a world of 
 artistic and amazing game play like never before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pavel_nedved_br
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of Bioshock and saw the images I was really surprised at how promising the game 
 was.
  Now, after it has been released the promise revealed true.
  
  First of all, my computer specs:
  
  Intel QuadCore Extreme QX6800 2,93Ghz
  4Gb DDR2 800Mhz 
 Kingston
  Nvidia GeForce 8800GTX 768MB 384Bits
  400Gb Sata HD
  Wireless Game Controller
  
  The graphics are something abnormal (read: wonderful) as the game 
 is full of details and 2K Games used shaders, textures, lighting and models in the highest of standards. 
 However even modern pcs could find difficulty to unleash BS' full quality. On my pc I had no problem 
 running everything set to max.
  Sound is pretty good also, since every environment detail can be heard clearly and in high quality.
 
  
  Even not being a huge fan of the genre I was surprised at how good and entertaining is Bioshock. 
 To me it's due to the innovative way of shooting that I first met on Half-Life 2.
  That's what mostly attracted me to Bioshock and it probably means that this game, along with HAZE 
 and Killzone 2 will be my favorite FPS in the amidst of the soon-to-be-released FPS games.
  
  However the problems about Bioshock are the issues on activating the game, as many buyers reported 
 the two-times only activation problem. I guess 2K Games could have made a secure activation without 
 the two-times limit. And another problem is the technical issues some gamers might encounter along 
 the game, like having no sound or graphical glitches.
  
  My closing comments are that Bioshock is a must-have for all FPS fans and the no-fans like myself 
 too, since it's an innovative and attractive game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt-slaughter61
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Ok sorry bout miss-spelled words there I had to fit the whole sentence in. Bioshock, once again 
 it is undescribable. I mean I was hyper when i got the game. You start off your in a plane its 
 New Years and he says his parents He was born to do great things, then you crash and find the underwater 
 city of Rapture built by Andrew Ryan. Thats all you learn about yourself for awhile, which makes 
 everything a mystery and you want to solve it, which is why you play it for so long just exploring 
 the city. When I started playing this i thought the big daddy's were your boss but they arnt, yet 
 if you want those extra gamerpoints from the little sisters your gonna have to face them, and on 
 medium the put up a pretty good fight, and yes you probably will be outta ammo in the end. The 
 hacking system is sweet, fun, and hard at sumtimes. But hey, its hacking what can u expect. The 
 graphics are amazing and water effects make the game what it is. The sound is great. The plasmids 
 change combat in FPS completley. Plasmids own, but what i loved is the weapon customization. My 
 shotgun is like gas powered lol its sweet. What i was surprised is usually i cant stay into a single 
 palyer but this was dfifferent it was a complatley new experience from any other single player. 
 GET THE GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acurev
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Its rare these days to find a good PC game that has a good story, good graphics/highly optimized 
 engine, good control, good gameplay, a good challenge, and Big Daddy's all in one neat little package. 
 Bioshock is one of those rarities.
  
  Bioshock isnt a game for FPS fans, RPG fans, people who like a good story, etc. Its a game for 
 everyone. If you like any of those things youll truly be satisfied with Bioshock. The action is 
 instense and well balanced. You wont constantly be fighting and when you are its not the same thing 
 over and over game. The rpg elements are easy enough that people who arent fans of the genre wont 
 be confused but people who are will feel right at home with the features you can use. Bioshock 
 is one of the best if not the best combination of two genres, both successfully done to the highest 
 standards of each.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  The game uses Unreal Engine 3 and with a decent system youll be blown away at the level of detail 
 in Bioshock. The game is very well optimized and runs very smooth on harder from even 2-3 years 
 ago. Aminations, textures, characters, and effects all shine here and the water effects are some 
 of the best ever seen in any game.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  The gameplay is very well balanced. Whether you use the good ol' keyboard and mouse or you go new 
 school with the 360 controller youll feel very comfortable about the game. The world sucks you 
 in and the games mechanics are fluid enough to make you forget your pushing buttons rather then 
 actually exploring a decoying underwater city. Your not always fighting and your not always exploring. 
 Theres a perfect mix to keep you on the edge of your seat.
  
  Sound 10/10
  In Bioshock youll hear everything youd expect to hear in a city underwater thats slowly falling 
 apart. The music adds depth and atmosphere, the voice acting is believable and of a high quality. 
 Youll hear random splicers walking around making conversation or mumbling at a past they believe 
 to still be the present. Gun sound effects are all great. They sound very powerful and it makes 
 you feel like theres something behind the shots your taking. Even the sounds of you hitting someone 
 in the head with a wrench sound believable and realistic.
  
  Story 10/10
  The story of Bioshock is an original and exciting one. The game plots you, youll get to learn the 
 cities past all while experiencing the present as events unfold. The events the do unfold are truly 
 spectacular. The story is presented in a very smart way. Youll learn about life in Rapture and 
 how things work. Once you have an understanding of things the plot twists and turns. Towards the 
 end of the game is where things will truly make your jaw drop. The story stands up to the legends 
 such as Half-Life in terms of quality.
  
  Value 9/10
  The game lasts a pretty long time. I played through it taking my time and spent around 20-25 hours 
 playing the game till the end. There are two different endings so youll wanna go back and play 
 a second time. On top of that you may even want to go back a third time to make sure you didnt 
 miss anything as theres so much detail and depth to the game. Anything after that your simply playing 
 the game to relive it, which is something thatll definitly happen with this game. There is however 
 no such thing as a perfect game. There are some glitches though I didnt experience any of them. 
 Everything from activiation to playing through went without flaw I could pick out a few small bugs, 
 though they didnt affect gameplay at all. Some people are experiencing some issues but my opinion 
 is, if you have a system you know can handle it worth it at a $50 price tag. When the price goes 
 down or a patch comes out the game is a definite must have.
  
  Overall 10/10
  A game of this quality deserves so much. Its obvious how much time was spent making this game. 
 The story is meant to be an entire thing. It starts in the begining and it ends at the end. No 
 loose strings and not leaving you hanging which is a good thing. If you can manage to get an entire 
 story out in one straight shot, its getting be on heck of a story. Bioshocks presentation is like 
 a AAA blockbuster classic hit. Its truly a good that will live on as one of the best storys ever 
 told. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaNemesis28
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Bioshock since 12:00AM of it's release on Monday last week. I've ran through 
 the game around 10-11 times now all with graphic settings on max DX10 with about 100 FPS and I 
 played it with settings down to minimum on DX9 with about 200 FPS.
  
  Why do I give this game a perfect 10? Well, this my be my first Gamespot review but it certainly 
 isn't my first review I've done a game. I am a very hard nut and this game is just the right cracker 
 to do me in.
  
  Let's start off with the looks. Again, I've played the game in bare minimum settings all the way 
 to maximum setting at least 1-2 times. It looks amazing. Thats the only word I can sum up within 
 the 10 seconds of awe from the first time I played it to now whenever I start the game up, plunging 
 into the depths of Rapture in the Bathysphere. In DX9, it's so supurb and eye shocking that I'll 
 make you think - is this pre-rendered or is it just my eyes? It's not, everything from the point 
 you start swimming in the fiery crash of the air plane till you watch the final breath of the last 
 boss die is all in-game graphics. And what makes the DX10 stand out? Well play Bioshock on the 
 360 and then play it on DX10 w/ max settings and you will notice the difference garuenteed. That 
 is what seperates the console from PC. But that's not the point... The graphics are simple amazing 
 on both the PC and console. Now, I and I'm sure anyone else can't possible imagine even by looking 
 at the 1-2 year engine movies of Crysis of what the graphics will look like on release.
  
  The actuall gameplay is pretty cool itself. For those who don't like FPS should try the game out 
 because it's a different look at FPS. Kind of what STALKER does but in another way. It combines 
 some RPG aspects while keeping all the actions right there. It's kind of like a FEAR/STALKER combination. 
 You can customize your weapons to an extant and your plasmids can be rearanged into any different 
 way you want it be. You get a wide variety of plasmids to choose from and it's up to you to decide 
 which ones will fit the kind of fights you want to take place. Even though the game is slightly 
 easier then what it looks or feels - it definatly gives you an adrenalin rush when it comes up 
 to taking 4 enemies rushing you with guns a blazin. Especially with the big daddy rushing at you!
 
  
  The official GS review didn't exactly explain everything. The game is VERY VERY vast and there 
 is plenty of you to explore. The game is pretty straight foward but you dont have to go the way 
 the arrow points. Even if you believe you have to follow that arrow no matter what, you can just 
 turn it off in the options. Again there are alot of extra rooms and hallways to venture through 
 contains items, plasmids, gun upgrades, ect. that always make it worth while.
  
  The story and plot of Bioshock is hard core. What I mean is that - this has to be the best FPS 
 game plot I've ever ever went through. You can even compare this story to the Final Fantasy franchise 
 which is well known for its outstanding twists. But this game definatly tops it this year and for 
 FPS games as the story line is so deep and truly like reading a book. I think I can do a book report 
 for school on this and my teacher wouldn't be able to realize it isn't an actual book. And if she 
 does - I don't think it would matter.
  
  Overall - this game has got to be the best game so far this year and it definatly raises expectations 
 toward Crysis later on. I hope this is a new revolution for FPS as most of them are linear and 
 extremely boring after a few plays through. As for Bioshock, I'm still going to be playing this 
 for a while and if I'm ever bored... I know just like a hard cover book on a shelf; there is a 
 classic on a DVD in my drawer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poost
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  At the very beginning of the game, you are sucked into Bioshocks highly detailed and immersive 
 world. Throughout the first level, there are many scripted sequences that help put into context 
 the kind of city you are really in, and how its citizens have been living. You are led around by 
 this mysterious Atlas, who lends you advice and a direction, and throughout the story you learn 
 more about him, and a lot of the other key players that witnessed/caused the events leading up 
 to your arrival in the city. While the story is where it is at in Bioshock, the combat is somewhat 
 lacking in variety. There are only a limited number of types of baddies, and your guns are typically 
 the fastest and easiest way to take them out. The plasmids are fun to play with however, although 
 some dont seem to deal the damage as you would expect. As you progress through the game, the Splicers 
 (the main kind of enemy you will encounter in your adventure) will become more resilient to your 
 weapons and plasmids. It gets somewhat annoying that shooting a Splicer (which is/was human) in 
 the face with a shotgun at point-blank range later in the game doesnt even take their health below 
 50%. While the plasmids are varied, some are definitely more useful and deal more damage than others. 
 The game world itself is highly detailed; often I found myself just looking around at the scenery. 
 The levels are really varied, and it never feels like 2K Boston reused the same hallway models 
 over and over again as they built the levels (*cough* Halo 2) . A lot of the pre-release hype for 
 the game was about the moral choices that you make throughout the game. There are story consequences 
 for these actions, but they seem to become relevant until very late in the game. I will have to 
 play through the game a second time to witness the differences in the storyline. The audio in the 
 game is utterly amazing. All the weapons sound very powerful, and the plasmid elemental attacks 
 all sound convincing. The 40s music really adds a great atmosphere to the game, supplemented with 
 creepy ambient effects. Using 7.1 surround sound really helped bring the game to life. The only 
 audio problems I experienced were odd footstep noises (from my character) . Most of the time they 
 would be playing behind me, which got annoying sometimes because I would turn around expecting 
 a Splicer behind me. Other times the foot steps would alternate side speakers, instead of being 
 a feint noise from both speakers. Other than that, the surround sound seemed really accurate to 
 my characters position relative to sound sources. I didnt have any of the software installation 
 problems others were having on my PC. I downloaded the game through Steam. Overall, Bioshock is 
 a really fun game and is a great piece of fiction, for both science fiction and fantasy fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacojac
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  After the World War II, a certain man named Andrew Ryan founded a city at the bottom of the sea 
 where, as he claimed, The artist would not fear the censor. Where the scientist would not be 
 bound by petty morality. Where the great would not be contained by the small He named his city: 
 Rapture. In this secret city, worlds brightest scientists were free to think and to experiment. 
 And so, it was only a matter of time until they made a few breakthroughs. But the most decisive 
 of them was Adam, a substance generated by deep sea parasites. When attached to a host, the parasite 
 produces new stem cells healing the host. The new stem cells allowed the host to take on external 
 genetic modifications that take over their normal cell structure. These genetic modifications could 
 be either medicinal cures or pure vanity changes.
  
  Of course, Adam gained an immediate success. Instant genetic modifications became even more and 
 more popular over the years, and then everything went horribly wrong. Raptures citizens, drugged 
 to Adam, became to slowly lose their minds. As their personality was fading away, they became more 
 aggressive and more violent. They began to kill each others, starving for some Adam to increase 
 their powers and their physical appearance. Rapture is now corrupted. Its only a shade of the 
 glorious city it once was. Most remaining citizens, now called slicers, completely deformed physically 
 and mentally by the Adam, are now hunting down the Little Sisters. Those corrupted children wander 
 around Rapture, collecting and recycling the Adam they find in corpses disseminated around the 
 city. The Little Sisters are protected by huge genetically modified protectors: the Big Daddies, 
 whose only goal is to protect, at any cost, the Little Sisters from any aggressor that might show 
 off in the way. The few remaining sane citizens trying to flee from Ryans influence are considered 
 as parasites and are hunted down without mercy by the slicers too.
  
  Youre the only survivor of a plane crash over the Atlantic. Fortunately, or maybe unfortunately, 
 you crashed right near Raptures main entrance: a lonesome lighthouse in the middle of the sea. 
 Leaded by curiosity and the will to survive, you blindly ventured there. What is this place? What 
 happened here? Will you be able to fight your way out of this hell? 
  
  BioShock is a very interesting game, where patient exploration and intense fight sequences come 
 along in a perfect combination. I can say for sure that the developers definitely and brightly 
 reached their goal to reinvent Firs-Person Shooter genre. The games best strength certainly 
 is its deep and intriguing atmosphere created by an ingenious mix of spectacular environments, 
 excellent soundtrack and very realistic sound effects.
  
  First of all, there is Rapture. The idea of a city at the bottom of the sea, completely isolated 
 from the outside world, gave great possibilities to the developers to freely use their imagination. 
 Everything, from the well-thought retro 50s style to the huge metallic structures, seems strange, 
 unreal, but so wonderful at the same time. The games different environments such as the creepy 
 clinic of the Medical Pavilion and the luxurious forest of Arcadia contribute greatly to give to 
 the game its so interesting atmosphere. Of course, impressive graphics and visual effects helped 
 a lot to define and improve the beauty of those environments.
  
  BioShocks soundtrack is also a very important point of the game. Although it isnt particularly 
 impressive, it helps a lot in creating an intriguing atmosphere and in maintaining a certain level 
 of excitement. The different themes are often cut by long, heavy and stressful silences to add 
 a creepy note to the action. But, as I wrote earlier, those themes arent very catchy and I consider 
 that to be a good thing as it helps the player to stay focused on the action. Sound effects are 
 particularly important in creating the desired atmosphere too. While some noises seem a little 
 out of place, screams, cries, footsteps, breaths and especially voices are very well made. The 
 voice acting is surprisingly good, very realistic and, in a certain way, very entertaining. BioShock 
 is very different from other shooters as its focused mainly on Raptures story and decline. That 
 story is told via Audio Diaries found all around the city. By hearing those diaries, youll soon 
 realize that Raptures past is extremely deep, complicated and confused, but its easy to understand 
 the importance of Adam and Plasmids and the role they played in Raptures fall. Characters also 
 play in important role in the game. As the city is now divided by many internal conflicts, the 
 game focuses a lot on how the characters, rebels and Ryans henchmen, interact with each others.
 
  
  The games main gameplay and controls arent very different from any other shooter. Both novices 
 and experienced FPS players should not have any trouble at all in getting used to the controls. 
 While the game doesnt offer any co-op or online gameplay possibilities, the single-player campaign 
 by itself is very entertaining and lasts long enough (20-30 hours at least) to be sufficiently 
 satisfied. BioShock also offers some replay possibilities, as its always possible to visit new 
 places and to beat the game again in a different way with different plasmids and strategies or 
 with a harder difficulty setting. There are three difficulty settings: easy, medium and hard. But 
 the game is mostly easy anyway, no matter which difficulty setting you choose, as you cant really 
 die as you will always respawn somewhere near the place where you died with all your ammunitions, 
 EVE hypos and first aid kits and even some health and EVE. The enemies you managed to hurt before 
 your death will still have those injuries; they wont get healed. So if youre stuck somewhere 
 against a particularly strong enemy such as a Bid Daddy or a Boss, you could carelessly fight again 
 and again and you would end up victorious anyway.
  
  The gameplay is mostly based on the use of Plasmid, Tonics and Adam. The only way you can survive 
 around Rapture is to genetically modify your own body with different powers (Plasmids) and enhancements 
 (Tonics) . Those Plasmids and Tonics can be found hidden around Rapture or can be purchased with 
 some Adam at characteristic machines named Gatherers Garden. The only sources of Adam in Rapture 
 are the Little Sisters so you must get close to them in order to get the Adam. And the only way 
 to do so is to get rid of the Big Daddies. The Big Daddies are some of the strongest foes in the 
 game. Theyre fast, strong, and they can take hits. Fight them wisely, think, act quickly and use 
 your surroundings. Theyre not that hard to beat if you use some decent strategy but still, stay 
 focused or you might end up with a hole in place of your head. Youll also need some EVE to make 
 the Plasmids work. When your EVE bar runs low, you can replenish it with the EVE hypos you find 
 hidden around Rapture and on corpses. EVE hypos can also be purchased at a modest cost at the Circus 
 of Values machines.
  
  While Plasmids and Tonics are very important in fights, an interesting arsenal of weapons is available 
 for you to use. Weaponry isnt as developed in BioShock as it is in other shooters but still, it 
 offers a bunch of nice features and possibilities when used in concert with Plasmids. Totally, 
 there are eight different weapons: the wrench, the pistol, the machine gun, the shotgun, the grenade 
 thrower, the camera, the chemical thrower and the crossbow. Each weapon (except the camera) can 
 shoot three different types of bullets. For example, the shotgun can shoot 00 bucks, electric bucks 
 and exploding bucks. Every enemy is weak to certain weapons and types of bullet. Take pictures 
 of your enemies with the camera to reveal those weaknesses and to fight your foes more effectively. 
 Your weapons can be upgraded for free at the Power to People machines. However, those machines 
 can be used only once so think carefully before upgrading your weapons.
  
  BioShock is an outstanding game, but its got a few flaws. The PC version requires a bunch of recent 
 and powerful hardware (essentially the graphic card and the processor) to run the game correctly. 
 The game has no real widescreen support and its impossible to configure the controls at your ease. 
 The game tends to freeze sometimes, but maybe that just because of my laptop. It is said that the 
 Xbox 360 version tends to lag too, but, again, I believe it depends of the players machine. There 
 arent any major differences between the PC version and the Xbox 360 version.
  
  BioShock clearly redefines the First-Person Shooter genre from bottom to top. Spectacular environments, 
 impressive sound effects, a deep and interesting storyline and some very interesting innovations 
 such as the Plasmids, put together, created this brilliant masterpiece. It could have turned bad, 
 but 2k games did a magnificent job in creating a so audacious, innovative and very entertaining 
 game. Bravo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outlord2001
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  the game sucks you in with the story plot . you won't want to stop playing until you win then you 
 want to play it again. the graphics were out of this world. the game is not hard to learn to play 
 and the sound sets the mood. a lot of people said there were glitches in vista but i did not have 
 a single issue. some of the dark scenes were a little too dark but that did add to the suspense 
 and the frustration some of the time. that aside the game played quite well and all the tapes well 
 that helps the story so much. i will say that if you explore on your own you will find some cool 
 stuff . you have to look in every nook&amp; cranny to find everything and you still won't find it 
 all. this game makes it so hard to wait for unreal tournament 3 because you get a good idea of 
 what this game engine can do. Bioshock is a great game and well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyboy070
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  First let's just get out of the way, the graphics They are stunning. They are gorgeous, they are 
 only really there if you have a strong enough pc or a 360 and an hd tv, but they are gorgeous. 
 The lighting effects leave me wishing they had this same abilities in doom 3 and other creepy shooters. 
 THe way the lights would move made it hard to tell if some people where there sometimes. Once I 
 got a glimpse of a foot, only thing to indicate that this was bad is the foot was upright, so I 
 set it on fire just as soon as it jumped at me. They landed in a puddle of oil, and a fire storm 
 from hell consumed everyone else who had bee sneeking up on me! Each level was beautifully rendered 
 as intiially a place that was wonderful, but then destroyed by the insanity of plasmids. Leaves 
 had a dull sheen, wet rock locked... well wet! It glistened as if polished. It is impossible to 
 say enough about it so I will just move on to the controls
  
  With computer this is a null point. You can create whatever you want, but with xbox this turned 
 out to be a big problem for me. They had virtually no control adjustment. NO legendary control 
 sticks! This problem on lasted as long as it took to load it onto my pc, but that isn't the point. 
 A big game as this and they couldn't just throw that in? I don't understand that! People like options, 
 controls are a personal choice. Give us the choice! Other than that, the computers system was fine, 
 bound my own keys but sometimes when I would reload (after stopping for the night) my bindings 
 won't be there. Obviously a glitch, one that shouldn't have made it past production.
  
  Next would be just gameplay. I was very interested to see how they took this type, the scary close 
 quarters fightings, and made it different. Telekinetic and supernatural type powers was difinitely 
 the way to go! The surroundings were just as useful as any weapon. Tanks could be picked up and 
 thrown and would explode on contact, if timed right over an oil spot, you could take several enemies 
 at once. Or light that pit with incineration and it would block a way (or cook the people in the 
 puddle) there by directly your flow of combat. The design of each weapon was either new for that 
 era or compleley jerry rigged. Gotta admit, I was a little uncomfortable about the grenade launcher 
 with a coffe can for the main body, until I realized the grenades were in soup cans. Eat your chunky 
 SOUP! The combat proved to be the most interesting in a while. The AI wasn't stellar, but it was 
 better then average. They would take advantage of a blind spot, but seemed to yell something crazy 
 everytime. Doesn't one of them shut up and just kill? I really liked the decisions and moral dillemas 
 they left as well. Kill a little sister and harvest more adam or save her and harvest little, but 
 make friends along the way? They both have different outcomes in the long run. I also like the 
 knowledge increase with enemies with pictures. Growing and understanding of them to kill them easier. 
 Sounds like a normal person. FInally, the story. The story was twisted but great. The idea one 
 man has is that is obviously flawed is somehow put into action and it all goes to hell. That is 
 kinda a standard, but the way it works out in the end is unexpected regardless what route you take 
 in terms of saving children and such. It was great.
  
  Overall, the difficulty, length of game, thought required to do it, the story, it was all good. 
 I don't feel jaded about not having multiplayer here. I just that there were some major glitches 
 that should've been fixed before this came out. It was annoying to try to start the game and have 
 it start in a small window, then shut it downa and restart correctly, then to have to adjust my 
 controls again. Overal, these are fixable and only minor problems. I can't ding it much for that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmissile35
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  The story, sound/music, atmosphere, graphics combine to make this game a very complete experience. 
 I started over half-way through the game just because I wanted to experience the 1st half again 
 (which I have never done before) . I periodically have to stop playing because I have gotten too 
 into it all -- my stomach starts churning, my heart starts racing, and my jaw muscles get really 
 sore. It just really feels like I'm there...
  
  If you don't have a computer that is capable of playing this game -- now is the time...
  
  Stop 
 waiting for the next great game -- this is definitely it.
  
  Well not much else can be said about this game that hasn't already been said. Just go buy it. You 
 won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mecrab
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  Ever since this game was announced back in 2005, i had no doubt in my mind that I had to get it. 
 Between its stellar visauls and eerie storyline, I knew it would be a game like no other. From 
 the moment you pick up the controller, to the final minuites of the last cutscene, it is simply 
 an experience that you will never forget. The story starts off with you being some unknown character 
 (for the time being) who is traveling by plane to go visit his family. Everything seems fine when 
 all of the sudden your plane immediately becomes a huge fireball and dievbombs down into the middle 
 of the ocean. From there its simply about your discovery of a city known as Rapture, which was 
 a designed to be a sort of utopia during WWII. When you first enter the city, you can tell right 
 off the bat that something has gone horribly wrong. Everything is falling apart between the once 
 beautifully florescent lights to the large cracks along the sides of the wall which relinquish 
 tiny streams of water. But more than that, it is simply the eerie silence that tells you that something 
 has gone astray. You would think in a city like this there would be people chatting about the usual 
 and people just walking around exploring what the city has to offer. Not so here. After exploring 
 for a while you will eventually come across your first weapon which will aid in exterminating any 
 enemies that threaten you at the time. As you progress through the game, you will be able to ugrade 
 other weapons you find throughout the game giving them anything between stronger fire power to 
 faster weapon speed. While the guns to hold their own pretty well throughout the game, What really 
 stands this game apart from other shooters is the powers you get that will give a strategic advantage 
 over the enemy and help you solve puzzles throughout your journey. In order to ge these powers 
 you need a source known as atom whic is the stuff that people use to upgrade themselves. Sadly, 
 adams affects have vastly changed the people of the city, turning them into hideously deformed 
 addicts who crave the source of adam and will do anything in their power to get it. Unfourtunately, 
 the only to get adam is by killing the source which are known as little sisters . They in turn 
 are gaurded by big daddy's which are huge creatures who's only mission is to protect the little 
 sisters. You will have to kill the big daddy's if you have any intent of using the vast powers 
 that are at your disposal. Most of these fights will be difficult, but since dying only results 
 you in being revived in a cell known as a vita-chamber, its just a matter of wearing them down 
 and finally killing them. Once you do, the little sister will be at your disposal, with which you 
 can either harvest (in other words kill) ot rescue. Harvesting does give you more adam but puts 
 you on bad terms with the creator. On the other hand you can rescue them, which gives you less 
 adam, but will eventually allow you to collect more adam from the creator depending on how many 
 you decide to rescue. Either way, the amount of adam you get turns out to be pretty much the same 
 in the end, so basically you'll to chose by which ending you want to get. The other categories 
 which require small amounts of adam are things called tonics. These are mainly passive abilities 
 which can do anything from increase your hacking abilities to uping amount the damage you do to 
 any given enemy. You will find most of these by exploring the city around you. Unfourtunately the 
 game does encourage you to venture of the main storyline to find these, so you'll have to go exploring 
 on your own and check every nock and cranny should you chose. Also, there are multiple vending 
 machines along the way which give you more health packs or more ammo should you need it. Your probably 
 wondering to yourself man, that sounds like alot of stuff to keep track of in this game, what if 
 i replace a tonic i wanted to keep, or what if a power isn't what id thought it be, how can i change 
 them out? No problem, simply find a gene swap bank, which are located in numerous areas around 
 the city, and swich out the useless powers for the ones you need. While all this techincal stuff 
 seems fine and dandy, the really big question is how is the game overall? I could use so many words 
 to describe and go on and on about the graphics and the immersive that im sure you've heard so 
 much about. Instead, im going to sum it all up into once sentence that'll hoepfully convince that 
 it is simply a game you must have: You've seen the screen shots, you've heard the hype, and now 
 its time for you to go on your own adventures into the city and find out what shocking secrets 
 Rapture holds; Welcome to Bioshock 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theaznfish
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  The game BioShock has laid a new foundation in the gaming industry, not only presenting a story 
 which leaves the player craving for more, but also giving a world both satisfying asthetically 
 and immersive in form of a hybrid fps w/ rpg elements. To that, the creators are to be given commendation 
 to their fine work as every area gives a suspensful and sometimes horrifying/grotesque atmosphere 
 to which the bounds of morality and ingenuity are tested. Should one save or should tarnish for 
 his own selfish needs? Choice is a big theme in this game. Words presented on the cover no gamer 
 will play it the same appropriately describes it. With a large armament of weapons and powers that 
 can be fitted to your arsenal, you the player can choose what you wish to do and how it should 
 be dealt with. Despite the rough beginnings of releasing the game, 2K certainly delivers a game 
 that well deserves the attention of the gaming community giving it both an immersive world full 
 of shock and horror and a world of choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is a game that has already been hyped to the heavens and beyond even before its release. 
 After completing this game, I must say this, yes, its a masterpiece of storytelling, and it is 
 almost the full package, but not yet.
  
  The good news is, the storyline and premises of Bioshock is superb. From the 1950s underwater setting, 
 to the art decor found in the game, to listening to the tape recordings of people long dead. All 
 this contributes to the exceptional atmosphere that BIoshock has created. The plasmids powers are 
 fun to use and it was a blast to see the powers in effect.
  
  Now the bad news. The game is way too easy. Having no death penatly means that I was able to breeze 
 through battles without care of my health. After all, why should I when I can rez with all my items 
 intact? It defeats any challenge that I have found.
  
  In all, buy Bioshock for teh storytelling and the atmosphere, which it has plenty. Just don't buy 
 it for the combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sundowners
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I wouldn't call this a game, i wouldn't call this entertainment anymore. Its a work of art. A masterpiece 
 that only long gone, eldritch yet talented artists of our past can conjure. To see this game right 
 out of its facade is wrong cos underneath it, the subtleties are far grander and it's majestically 
 enchanting. It's the kind of game you buy a console for, it's the kind of game you lose your social 
 life, its the kind of game that makes you fall in love with gaming all over again. It's that enchanting, 
 it's that bewildering, it's that mind-blowing and it definitely warms your heart seeing those lil' 
 ones getting freed from their torments... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thanatose
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Rapture, a strange undersea flash to the past full of interesting sights and people. 
 In a world free for any other world organization geneticists are free to experiment. These experiments 
 however become addictive and eventually go awry. Now the city is filled with maniacal splicers, 
 humans who have modified their genetic code to gain superhuman powers. Almost from the moment you 
 step out of the bathysphere that took you to Rapture you are hunted by splicers. You also are introduced 
 via radio transmission from your first ally in the game. From there things get stranger and stranger. 
 Bioshock's gameplay is superb with a short learning curve and the world of Rapture is immersive 
 and beautifully rendered. With a plethora of options your combinations of powers (plasmids) are 
 almost unlimited. The weapons in Bioshock are a mix of some of the old classics and some new. With 
 weapons from Thompson submachine gun to the pipe wrench and the chemical sprayer which throws napalm, 
 liquid nitrogen, and electric gel. The storyline is well written and drives the game along nicely 
 and the characters each have their own little piece of the story. Your actions in the game will 
 also effect the outcome of the storyline also. So whether you choose to kill them all or play the 
 good guy it's up to you. This adds greatly to the replayablility of the game. There are however 
 some issues that came up with the game install as well as other issues that many people reported. 
 However the game was very well optimized and ran smoothly once the initial issues were resolved. 
 Overall this game was incredibly entertaining and worth every moment of time spent playing it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacrificiaLamb
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  This review deals only with the game itself. I know that there are many problems ongoing with online 
 activation, limiting the number of installs, server problems, etc., and the use of hidden and invasive 
 DRM or DRM-like schemes, but I'm going to leave that out of this particular review. BioShock is 
 not as groundbreaking as many reviews seem to claim, but is well done nonetheless, offering a different 
 tilt on the FPS genre with fleshed-out character development. The atmosphere is the best aspect, 
 the characters and excellent voiceovers standing out in particular. The underwater setting, and 
 50's time period make for an interesting mix. It's a nice change from the Quake-esque dark corridors 
 and metal boxes. The story doesn't make a whole lot of sense, but whatever. A population that goes 
 nuts with gene-splicing, turns themselves into freaks, and then parasite-controlled little girls 
 who collect Adam and drink it, ok. The characters the player meets along the way (albeit through 
 radio communications) are all quite believable, well-written, and professionally voiced. There 
 are a few nice plot twists which keep things entertaining, unlike most games where one can see 
 the ending a mile away. As I remember it anyway, this game is not up to the suspense or scariness 
 level of System Shock 2. In fact, there is no scare factor, and if they were going for scary, or 
 even suspense, they failed miserably.
  
  Here's a breakdown of the positives as I see them:
  
  1) Sound, effects and voiceovers. Picking 
 up diary tapes helps to round out the story and describe what happened in the past, before everything 
 became a disaster. Splicers can be heard talking to themselves, and have a decent amount of dialogue, 
 enough so that it doesn't become mind-numbingly repetitive half an hour into the game. The sounds 
 of the city itself are fine, but the weapons lack punch. 2) Character development and skill progression. 
 Special powers (plasmids, think magic) and physical, weapon, and engineering tonics can be used 
 to upgrade the character, allowing him to freeze, shock, or burn opponents, use telekinesis, create 
 decoys, run faster, turn invisible, or hack more efficiently, just to name a few. There's also 
 a camera which allows you to take pictures of enemies to earn bonuses against them or gain unique 
 abilities. Weapons can also be upgraded.
  
  3) Graphics. It's a mixed bag, honestly. At higher resolutions, some of the textures look really 
 muddy up close. They look more like textures you'd see on the 360, and that's almost surely what 
 they are. The water is extremely well done, however, and luckily there's lots of it, lots of ripples 
 and reflections. The character models overall are decent, ranging from the impressive Big Daddy 
 that shakes the ground as it walks, to the less impressive array of splicers who look less detailed 
 and distinctive.
  
  4) Animations. Everything looks fluid and lifelike. Absolutely no complaints in this department.
 
  
  5) AI. Surprisingly good AI which doesn't break very often. When it does, it's usually due to a 
 path being blocked. Enemies act much more unpredictably in this game than almost any other I've 
 seen. They can dodge, charge, take cover while reloading, or run away and heal themselves at a 
 med station when badly injured. Some of them, namely the spider splicers, can perform impressive 
 acrobatics, doing back-flips and crawling on the ceiling. You'll never see an enemy standing in 
 the same place for more than a second. They're always active. Even in non-combat situations, the 
 AI is always on the move, interacting with the environment, searching corpses, using the vending 
 machines, etc.
  
  6) Environment interactivity. Most objects can be picked up and thrown via telekinesis. Oil slicks 
 can be set on fire and water can be hit with electricity, shocking anyone standing in it. You can 
 set a corpse on fire and throw it at an enemy, as an example. I guess hacking could be considered 
 part of the interactivity, which adds another dimension to the game. The hacking minigame is identical 
 to that of Anachronox. 7) Physics. Due to Havok and UE3.
  
  The negatives:
  
  1) Serious lack of variety in enemies. When you remove Big Daddy and bots from the list, all you 
 have left are splicers, and they are all interchangeable, other than the weapon they carry, either 
 a machinegun, pipe, box of grenades, or a pair of hooks. The Houdini splicers are the magic-users 
 of the group and while they have some interesting abilities they still look pretty much the same 
 as everyone else - grungy humans with malformed faces. They fit the story alright, but it would 
 have been nice to see some other creatures thrown in, perhaps more mutated and extreme versions 
 of the splicers. The Little Sisters all look like clones, only with different hair and dress colors. 
 While everything else looks fairly realistic, they look more like anime characters than real girls.
 
  
  2) Excessive enemy spawn. Kill a bunch of splicers in an area, come back 2 minutes later and there's 
 a whole new batch.
  
  3) Smallish levels. On most maps it's possible to go from one end to the other in less than a minute 
 (assuming a straight run and no fighting along the way) . This is likely due to the limited memory 
 of the 360.
  
  4) Simplification of gameplay. SS2 had more complexity, sometimes to a fault, especially when it 
 came to weapon breakage. Some may like things 'streamlined', but I prefer a little more depth. 
 It has to work for the console, so not surprising.
  
  5) The ending. No spoilers, but it was too cliche for a game like this. And it was laughably easy 
 to boot (on hard, with no Gatherer Garden upgrades bought) . More disappointing the more I think 
 about it.
  
  6) I didn't like the instant resurrection of the Vita-chambers. It kills the challenge and interrupts 
 the flow of the game. Not a big deal really. Just reload if you 'die'.
  
  7) Neither scary nor suspenseful. I don't know if this was one of their goals, but it didn't happen 
 for me.
  
  8) No replay value. No multiplayer. I was able to get both endings by only harvesting/rescuing 
 at the very end. The game was remarkably stable on my machine - not one crash. After an extended 
 period of time (6 hours continuous) , the game started to get a bit jerky (pausing occasionally 
 for less than a second) as it appeared to be running out of memory and dipping 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skunkboy72
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  If you want something that will keep you on the edge of your seat, look no further than Bioshock. 
 Everything about this game breaths atmosphere. The lighting, the setting, the furniture, the carpet, 
 the walls, it seems as if everything was placed to further immerse you into the world of Rapture. 
 The story is simply amazing. With enough depth that you wouldn't think its a video game! The fact 
 that you can customize your character to your hearts content is also amazing. Tons of plasmids 
 to manipulate the world with. Dozens of different genes that can help you hack better, kill better, 
 or just buff up your defenses add up to some of the hardest decisions you have to make. This leaves 
 tons of room for replay. The little sisters also give a pretty substantial choice, do you harvest 
 them and get more Adam (the material that helps you build your character) or do you rescue them 
 and show compassion that is kindly rewarded. The only cons are some minor quibbles about copy protection 
 and that as of now you can only install the game on about 5 machines, but in due time that number 
 is supposed to vanish and you can do as you please. I personally had no issues what-so-ever getting 
 the game to install and run. although it did reset all my graphical, audio, and key settings once, 
 but I mean come on it takes like 30 secs to straighten that stuff out.
  
  Now, WOULD YOU KINDLY play this game! : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GI_Manny
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  First i didnt know my computer was going to be able to play this, the i popped it in, bumped everyhting 
 to max, and it flew like never before. i have a P4 2.8, 2 Gigs RAM, and an 8800GTS. So i didnt 
 knno it would run great. this game runs amazingly. better than BF2142, and it has 2X the graphics. 
 The gameplay is incredible. Atmosphere is a mazing, and voice acting is awesome. My new favorite 
 game of all time. Plus this game will have great replay value. i hope to bet it on all dificulties. 
 Up to when Crysis comes out of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastercleft
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  bioshock is a new shooter from irrational games and 2k games. This game is absolutly amazing. And 
 has Game of the eyar all over it.
  
  Graphics- The graphics in this game are excellant. Unreal engine 3 really shiens in this game as 
 long as you have a system that can handle it. though teh game is very well optimized and should 
 run even on older systems. The water effects in the game are the best i have ever seen, and look 
 like real water. The textures are generrally high res but occasionally when you first load up a 
 game there is texture pop up, but its only right when you laod so its nothing big.
  
  Sound- OMG, the sound is amazing. The voice overs are excellant and really help teh atmosphere 
 which is already amazing. The atmospheric sounds are also amazing. From dripping water to the creaking 
 of teh city, the splicers talking. Its extremly immersive.
  
  Gameplay- This game play amzinly teh control scheme is easy to beceome acustomed to. The UI is 
 also very easy to use and really fits into teh game. The game is also very open ended. It is like 
 STALKER meets Fable meets system shock 2. The weapon upgrade system works flawlessly. It is open 
 ended like stalker and fable in teh sense that you can only go to new areas once they are unlocked 
 and areas are as explorable as you make them
  
  AI- What can i say the AI is decent. It is generaaly predictable but is also challenging and ussually 
 uses teh enviroment. But on occassion will be quite stupid and make teh same mistakes
  
  Overall bioshock is an excellant game and is a must buy for any RPg and shooter fan. It si immersive 
 and is a very story rich shooter. It is absolutly amazing, So would klndly go and buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kengteen
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  take every negative review with a pinch of salt. THIS IS THE GAME OF THE YEAR period. It may not 
 sell the most, it may not be the most mass market game but in terms of every category that you 
 can think of for a FPS/RPG. BIO SHOCK will come in tops.
  
  To say Bioshock is simply addictive and the most unique and original game of the year is an understatement.
 
  
  There may be loads of FPS coming end of this year that will be strong competition but having read 
 all their reviews and examine the storyline, background and basis of the games. None will come 
 close to BIOSHOCK.
  
  Just the musical score for the game will take your breath away.
  
  If you have been wondering and thinking that games are getting a tad boring and repetitive. 
 Then BIO SHOCK will make you appreciate and justify why gaming will always be better entertainment 
 then anything esle! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OddElf
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Great story line. I think the story line is unique that you are in an underwater city with freaks 
 that are trying to steal your ADAM (soul like DNA) . Love the graphics. The dev team took their 
 time on the details. The blood is a bit fake. I was hopeing to see some realistic random blood 
 splater. Love the weapons. I love how you can customize them as you get deeper into the story/game. 
 It makes you want to keep going in that aspect of the game. Love the AI. I am happy to see that 
 first person shooters are getting better AI! Kinda easy on some aspects. You can save it when ever 
 you want and there are tubes located through out the game that will revive ya if you die. Other 
 than that it is a great game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broseybrose
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  in fact, its the best first person game EVER, no lie, no joke, no exaggeration, save possibly the 
 original Deus EX (my all time favorite game) . the amount of work that went into this game to create 
 an actual world is mind boggling, and makes for an interactive audio visual experience that immerses 
 like no other. the art and imagination are beyond belief. the splicers are scary. the world is 
 dark and wet. the lighting is fantastic. shadows are everywhere. the little sisters are an ingenious 
 creation. my expectations were so high for this game i was totally prepared to be let down. what 
 i was NOT prepared for, was how GOOD THIS GAME REALLY IS. instant classic indeed.
  
  this is IT right here. go buy this game, play it, love it. welcome to rapture. enjoy the views. 
 especially from the windows, looking out upon the underwater city... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lart
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are are good but in no way groundbreaking. DX 10 effects are almost non existent.
 
  
  The sound is great in every aspect and the voice acting is well done.
  
  The story is mediocre, and very predicable. The atmosphere is very well done.
  
  The game play 
 is mixed. Overall you encounter about ~7 types of enemies in the whole game. And having played 
 1/3 of the game you know them all.
  
  The power system is ok, but you rarely have to make vital decisions in this area.
  
  This all 
 boils down to a mixture of doom, fear and half-life.
  
  It's very unfortunate, that this game plays undersea, but you will not encounter one scene, where 
 water is used anywhere in this game, as a game-component. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChefRC
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Very good Shooter. Great combination of plasmids anfd weapons. Great graphics. Especially some 
 of the lights out scences when you have physco looking doctor or nurse about to cut you to pieces. 
 The water effects are incredible. Its nasty toasting everyone with the electro bolt. I do enjoy 
 the look of the cared bodies that you have to search. Just like getting on the 4,5, or 6 train late 
 night and roling a bum for train fare. The reload is a little slow but worth it. I do like to club 
 things with the wrench. its a nice effect when the blood spurts. Like the retro look and the music. 
 Its got a very erie feel to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eizenstahl
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 4, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Im not sure what to think of this game, but I can say this, I had very high hopes it would be a 
 milestone (atleast for me) in gaming, unfortunately it wasn't. (English is not my native language 
 by the way)
  
  Graphics:
  Overall good, I had expected better water and water effects though, considering the overhype about 
 it and the fact that the game takes place under water. I would give the game an 8 in graphics.
 
  
  Sound:
  This saves the 6 score for the game. Sound and music overall is top-notch, I cant really complain 
 about it.. except maybe for the repetative things the spicers say over and over again. Sound score 
 9.
  
  Gameplay:
  This is where the game fails imho. The complex you run around in is surrounded by water, but it 
 could have been on a spaceship for all I care, the water is never really 'used'. You never swim 
 for example.... nothing underwater.. nada. Some wet-puddles here and there... thats about it.
  
  Ammo is almost non-existant (you can buy at some vending machines however) so I really do see 
 the use for the different type of ammo, whats in the gun is what you use.. more or less. Changeing 
 between plasmids (magic in disguise) and weapons can (and was for me) be a hazzle. No 'feeling' 
 in the weapons.. no.. oomph, and is it possible to make the 'crosshair' any bigger??
  
  Most plasmids felt totally useless/underpowered or had so limited usefulness that I couldn't bother 
 to use them at all (the cyclon-trap thingie for example) . You cant really plan ahead anywhere, 
 unless you allready know what is going to happen because you died and reloaded a saved game.
  
  Areas and 'monsters' are very repetative.. I never got the feeling I 'got anywhere'... I saw 
 no or very slim progress, like being in a skyscraper running around the same old corridors over 
 and over again (F. e. a. r.)
  
  The 'revive stations'..... first things I really got annoyed at. How about balance the 'monsters' 
 and encounters so that you dont need, what is essentially endless life. All it does it add to the 
 'run and gun' games that we've seen so many times before. Replay value is close to 0. I give gameplay 
 a score of 5.
  
  I've completed the game. but I cant help feeling robbed... empty inside, was there really nothing 
 more? I had the same feeling after playing Deus Ex 2 (which is a bad joke compared to the 1st game) . 
 Sure, at some places I smiled, because there is humour in the game, but I must say, it was never 
 really 'fun', it just dragged on and on and on... to, the final battle, which was close to laughable 
 in terms of difficulty imho.
  
  Last, but not least, there is one good thing about Bioshock though, Its much better than Doom 3... another 
 let-down.
  
  This game is the last 'port' from a X-box (or whatever) I will ever buy. I feel that most of its 
 shortcomings hails from the X-box as they did in Deus ex 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve_59
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Just got the game yesterday and I am glad to say it has lived up to my expectations, the graphics 
 are fantastic, the game play is a good learning curve, and I love the fact you can wander around 
 to explore the enviorment as well as carrying out the objective. I can only say that if my first 
 2 hours are any thing to go by this game is going to be one of the top games of this year. I have 
 to say that I haven't been that impressed with some of the games on the 360 but with this game 
 and the ones that will be coming out over the next few months as enjoyed playing games again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingMonkeyPC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Overview:
  Bioshock is a very high quality game. It manages to keep you going and going until you hit the 
 end, without too much frustration. The story is definitely twisted and fun to unravel. There's 
 very little to complain about this game (for me at least) .
  
  Pros:
  + Extremely well paced game thanks to its built-in indicator and hints
  + The whole retro theme 
 looks amazing
  + The sound and music is nearly flawless
  + The voice actors and actresses are top notch
  + Lots of things to explore
  + Pretty darn 
 creepy - if that suits your fancy
  
  Cons:
  - Big Daddies are cheap fighters - so you'll die quite a bit from these guys
  - Ending was really 
 short (at least I think for one of them so far)
  - At times, it's difficult to manage between plasmids and standard weapons
  - After a while, 
 you start to hear repeated voice dialogues from your enemies
  
  Other Notes:
  - DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME ON EASY... it ruins the challenge!
  - Played this game on a E4300 @ 3.0 
 GHz, 2 GB RAM, 8800 GTS 640 MB with settings of 1400 x 900 resolution all on high quality: Game 
 ran amazingly smooth!
  
  The Review:
  Wow what can I say? Bioshock is an amazing game. Most of the gameplay comes from System Shock 2 
 in many ways, but much much more polished making it more accessible to casual gamers - which is 
 a good thing. I like things more simple.
  
  The game takes place in a underwater city called Rapture created by Adam Ryan and apparently everybody 
 went nuts due to its lack of morals. All the audio tapes you collect reveals the twisted personalities 
 of many citizens of Rapture, but very interesting to listen to. For example: Tenebaum is a plastic 
 surgeon who got tired of the traditional beauty that he keeps working on people and decides to 
 go Picaso on people with his scalpel, turning him into a mad surgeon in the end. It's these things 
 that you begin to feel the world of Rapture and what it's all about. All the who, what, and why 
 questions answered is a very pleasant thing that comes from Bioshock's amazingly deep and well 
 thought out world. I tend to think of this as more of an adventure game rather than a first person 
 shooter.
  
  Anyhow, this game is a must play for anybody who's into gaming in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitesoxdude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is a good game but it could be better. I don't like the fact that ammunition is scarce. 
 I always have to kill enimies with my wrench. But I do love the plasmids in the game. It makes 
 the game Much easier. I haven't played the xbox 360 version yet, but im sure it will be better 
 because in the pc version you are only allowed to install it two times. The graphics for this game 
 are awesome, but it doesn't deserve a 10. Those who are looking for an easy shooting game, this 
 is not the game for you. I like this game but I recommend you rent this game before you buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darrenchan217
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  after seeing all the perfect score reviews from various game sites i cant help but thinking if 
 bioshock is the perfect game for this decade. it turns out to be quite promising. if u are thinking 
 of spending ur money on a game for the season this is the game but just dont expect anything out 
 of this world.
  
  the strongest point of bioshock is the artistic design of the game. in game it quotes 'Rapture 
 is a city made of ideas, not steel and bricks' or something like dat. which i can also say for 
 the game itself. it is beautiful technically and artistically but also each objects placed in the 
 game, the levels also has a purpose to contribute to the overall atmosphere and theme of a section 
 of the game. the closest comparison is the rides in Disneyland if u have ever been to one. this 
 the game that u will stop, look and play around with a bag of potato chips and u will always want 
 to explorer every room in the game, loot aside, they are full of surprises and interesting things 
 to look at. these rooms and corridors - yes bioshock is set completely indoor and full of confined 
 spaces- are cleverly placed and connected to each other in a way dat makes navigating round the 
 level quite fun. now to the bads. u still feel like u are playing a game.
  this is most obvious because of the spawning of the enemies, there are moments u know the games 
 gonna chuck enemies at you. and pretty much all the enemies in bioshock are splicers which are 
 all **** in the head and want to kill u with whatever they have in hand at first sight. this breaks 
 the immersion cuz u know the game developers played halo and used that 30 second of fun theory 
 to apply to this game and keeps repeating it. also this game could really use some downtimes, in 
 game cinematics, npcs interactions, side quests, environmental puzzles to make the narrative stronger 
 although the story is decent. this is what separates it from the greatness of half life 2 which 
 blends everything together beautifully to make u feel for city 17 and the characters in it.
  
  just like when u go through that amazon jungle part in Disneyland or something, its highly 
 entertaining and worth the entry price but u cant help but thinking its not the real amazon jungle. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay202
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  I have played alot of FPS games in my life, this is up with the best of them.
  HL2 changed FPS, with new Tech and rag doll. I feel this is a more streamlined game in that you 
 must go here and there to get things done. Love the underwater idea and the dungeon type kill or 
 be killed wold. Would have liked a bit more interaction with people in the game world.
  The harvesting of ADAM is well done, the Big Daddy is hard to kill to start but once you have one 
 down you can then have no worry at all. So more depth in the game would have been great. Now bring 
 on the addon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  BioShock may not impress you if you do not play a whole lot of games. A gaming newbie would probably 
 at least enjoy BioShock as fun romp, but might not understand what the big deal is about. However, 
 for the well-established gamer, this is the kind of game that gives us some hope after being forced 
 to wallow through a stagnant pile of reheated concepts conceived solely to sell.
  
  BioShock is a first person shooter. There's no multi-player because the developers have focused 
 entirely on creating a cohesive single-player experience. BioShock is also a survival horror game, 
 and there will be some scares and thrills to be found within. So, what it is that BioShock has 
 done that is notable?
  
  First and foremost, BioShock tells a compelling and deep story. The setting, an undersea 1950s 
 Utopia founded on Objectivism ideals known as Rapture, is a highly unique and interesting setting 
 that is a joy to uncover. The way that the story is told is especially masterful. Even the artistic 
 detail, from the world to the weapons, matches the rest of the painstaking efforts taken to create 
 BioShock .
  
  Second, BioShock possesses some unique and interesting game mechanics. The weapons have innovated 
 only in that there's three kinds of ammo for each and these behave differently when loaded. However, 
 there's also a second type of weapon known as Plasmids: genetic modifications that allow their 
 users powers such as telekinesis or mind manipulation. The environment is highly interactive in 
 that hitting the water with electricity effect will electrocute foes in it, there's oil slicks 
 to ignite, icy sections that can be melted, and various fixtures that can be thrown or (in the 
 case of explosives) detonated. BioShock has a lot more verbs than most FPS - it is possibly the 
 heaviest verb-heavy FPS ever made.
  
  Third, there's two kinds of character progression. You can collect dollars laying about Rapture 
 that can be spent on vending machines to purchase various items and ammunition. Far deeper is the 
 second kind that involves collecting Adam which can be used to unlock new Plasmids and Tonics (which 
 are passive and always-active powers) . You eventually unlock up to 24 slots, 6 for the plasmids 
 and each of three kinds of tonics, and anything you are not currently using is stored on Gene Bank 
 consoles. You can re-customize your character at any Gene Bank within the limits of your unlocked 
 slots for free.
  
  That's the gameplay in a nutshell and it's actually pretty fun. You can play it on Easy, Medium, 
 and Hard mode (this mostly influences how much damage you can take and inflict) and there are three 
 possible endings (although two are slightly modified carbon copies of eachother) . However, the 
 story remains the main draw to the game - if you've yet to have the plot spoiled, I advise keeping 
 far away from any BioShock resources until you've completed the game. Game length is between 12 
 and 25 hours depending on how much you explore and how quickly you move.
  
  Despite being a Masterpiece, and even something that should challenge Roger Ebert's conviction 
 that games cannot be high art, BioShock is not perfect. The fonts and textures in the game look 
 ugly if you play it at anything less than 1024x800 resolution, ideally at least 1280x720 (the resolution 
 the game was developed to be played at) and this requires a relatively powerful video card to do. 
 Though the difficulty is reasonably well balanced, it could have been harder, especially considering 
 BioShock appeals to advanced gamers. Finally, despite the rest of the game being a great experience 
 that breaks the mold, it ends in a rather clique fashion that is anything but unique. The cut and 
 paste neutral ending was another aspect that should have been corrected before release.
  
  Still, when all is said and done, this burnt out gamer is glad BioShock happened. Here's hoping 
 for a sequel (or at least an expansion) soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabooya
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is everything you'd think it should be. Amazing graphics and immersive game play. It is 
 extremely addicting as well. Its 2 am, i have worked all day and should have been asleep 3 hours 
 ago, but the game keeps drawing me back. After finishing it a few moments ago I realized how short 
 the game was, and how the ending was a bit disappointing. Though out the game you have the choice 
 to go back to previous levels/areas. But there really is no need and It would have been nice if 
 there was something you could gain by doing this. The story was very linear and a second play through 
 especially with all the major plot events mapped out, I don't see this as being too much fun other 
 then seeing another disappointing ending. I wish there were side stories or alternate story lines 
 that could be included.
  As gamespot said it was very Easy. Even on the hardest difficulty I was able to beat the game in 
 about 11 hours. There i something not right about fighting a big daddy with infinite respawns. 
 I would sometimes just go at him with my wrench respawning 50+ times to conserve on ammo. It almost 
 eliminates all challenge and can get a bit annoying or tedious if you have to run back halfway 
 across the map several times.
  Now don't get me wrong this game is AMAZING, its well worth the $50 price tag, and a hole lot of 
 fun.
  The ammo placement and splicer/player balance is a bit off throughout the game. There were times 
 when I had to respawn an insane amount of times just because i had little or no ammo and no health. 
 Then there were other times when i have 7 med packs 7 eve packs, and full ammo to the point I could 
 hold nothing else. And then there was no one to use it on. Facial animations weren't to great btw...
 
  
  I would like to give it a 9.1 out of 10 but gamespot's new rating system is blagh so 9.0 wins. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urrego
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game , graphics are astonishing and the interaction with the environment is top notch . 
 This is a must have for fans of creepy and FPS games ! while its true that the lack of the death 
 penalty makes it a little bit easy and keeps things fun still sometimes you 'll have a hard time 
 trying to find your way around and keeping up with your ammo and getting every audio message as 
 well the weapon upgrades. few games have good stories but this game definitely has delivered a 
 n engaging story . no matter what this is a fun game and very creepy but hopefully you get used 
 to it after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iridius
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit that it is quite early in my experience with this game, especially by my standards, 
 to be writing a review of Bioshock; it is, however, already deserving of high praise. Already in 
 the 4-5 hours that I've spent with it, Bioshock has shown the brilliance of its creators with a 
 highly immersive, atmospheric, psychological thriller. It skillfully combines everything that was 
 good about Doom 3, enhanced by the Unreal 3 engine, with an artistic masterpiece and story rivaling 
 perhaps one of my favorite series of all time, Myst.
  
  Enough with the teaser accolades, let's get down to the real business of the analysis of Bioshock. 
 The game is gorgeous. It manages to do things that I would not have believed possible at this point 
 in game development. Dynamic water effects such as gushing torrents pouring through into the environment 
 from the ocean, convincing fire (even fire on water) , and lighting that I can only woefully describe 
 as awesome. Of course, all of these things are lent the game by the engine. Not to put too fine 
 a point on it, but this is the most impressive engine to date. The prowess and power that it gave 
 to Gears of War developers has only been magnified here. Virtually everything is interactive (and 
 consequential to the story) . Everything detail is finely crafted. Every physics calculation is 
 convincing if not accurate. This engine enabled Bioshock's developers to create a truly great game 
 with no lack of creativity in detail.
  
  Speaking of details, the artistic theme of the game is magnificent. Set in an art deco theme that 
 was assembled remarkably well (lends itself well to the game and the story) , everything in the 
 game stays true to the visual style. Character dialog and speech styling, music, aesthetic niceties... every 
 detail is instantly recognizable as a fitting element of the game. Everything preserves the illusion 
 and immersive qualities of the environment. And everything helps to move the game along in an entertaining 
 way. Dialog is fun to listen to but also plays an important role in the game play. Gadgetry is 
 clever and interesting, very much true to the art deco styling and very much a believable extension 
 of the real mid-20th century technology were these gadgets, guns and technologies actually available 
 at that time. Details are where so many games miss greatness, but Bioshock delivers.
  
  Game play is excellent... very fun. Its combination of standard shooter weaponry and what can only 
 be described as force powers (thank you to my friend Azazel for the nod to Star Wars) is a kick. 
 There's nothing like electrocuting a zombie and then beating him/her over the head with a pipe 
 wrench for the kill. The pace is fairly quick, though exploration is necessary to really draw the 
 most out of the game. In addition to the run-and-gun aspect, the game has a horror/mystery thing 
 going on. The story is very much opaque at the beginning and only starts to become clear by listening 
 to NPC interactions, talking to your guide, picking up audio journals along the way, and enduring 
 the rantings of Ryan, the game's signature evil persona. But again, this is nothing new... Fear 
 was very much a run-and-gun with a better than average horror/mystery story to bolster it. Perhaps 
 a better example is Half Life 2, but you get the point. However, I wouldn't be saying this if Bioshock 
 weren't different.
  
  So this brings me to why Bioshock is so great. It's not just the insane visual and audible beauty, 
 fascinating story, or solid game mechanics... it's the innovative components and the level to which 
 they exist. Hacking is one example of this. There are several things in the game that can be hacked, 
 a minigame-based process that takes on the aspect of a puzzle. Yeah, it's pretty easy (in my opinion) , 
 but I'm literally a rocket scientist... what do you want? ... and they do get harder. Hacking has 
 several uses as it leads to new combinations of weapons and ammunition, decreases in item cost 
 at the games vending machines, and the ability to control security drones, to name a few. Additionally, 
 as I just alluded to, there are endless combinations of weapons and ammunition, enhancements and 
 special abilities that make each person's game a little different. You can be as clever and unique 
 as is warranted by your taste as you progress through the game. As in Riven or Myst, there are 
 a thousand ways to think about and approach a problem. And while Bioshock is much more linear and 
 less intellectual than the aforementioned, it is just as true and just as important from the standpoint 
 of game play and having a unique experience. Finally, the persistent Little Sister/Big Daddy combination 
 is totally cool. It represents one of the game's many path-based decision modalities forcing, in 
 some cases, the player to select a fundamentally good or evil option when dealing with the pair. 
 This multimodal enemy presents a persistent problem for the player throughout the game, often requiring 
 a non-palatable interaction with the enemy but, equally often, allowing the player to opt out of 
 confrontation. This enemy adds a dynamic, unexpected and seemingly random interaction in the game 
 that seems to rather drastically affect the course of the game. It is unclear whether the good 
 or evil decisions made regarding this enemy have long-term consequences, though I would be remiss 
 in not pointing out my opinion that it is highly likely and that I would be utterly disappointed 
 were it not the case.
  
  All in all, I'd say my generic GameSpot classification selection for this game says it all... instant 
 classic. I'll be honest, my excitement about and expectations for this game were quite low. I was 
 and continue to be completely blown away by how it has totally reversed my thinking. Any game with 
 the power to positively squelch my expectations for mediocrity and replace them with the sense 
 that this game will be long lauded deserves a perfect 10. I recommend this game for ANYONE casually 
 or intensely interested in FPS, horror/mystery or gaming in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gringoz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I don't go into boring stuff, I go right on.
  
  The game: What? Rapture is a underwater city in the middle of the Atlantic and you just happen 
 to crash there.
  Find weapons and Cool stuff.
  
  Content: 8.0
  Graphics:10.0
  Issues: 3.0
  Gameplay: 7.0
  Languages: Too few
  Funfactor: 10.0
  
  Game is fun
  
 
  what could made this game better? More Realism in water flowing and the ability to shoot any windows.
 
  
  Game Worth playing: yes fun.
  
  What kinda group would buy this?
  
  People that rarely leave the house.
  
  Don't judge a game on Graphics.
  
  Gameplay is the 
 most inportant factor and funfactor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micahk
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  BioShock was a game that was highly anticipated and in that comes high expectations. BioShock is 
 a very non linear game where you're plane crashes and you land in the ocean but suddenly you find 
 a lighthouse. This lighthouse leads you down towards this huge city known as the city of Rapture. 
 The city of Rapture was created in the early 1950's by a man named Andrew Ryan. As in the story 
 he said he wanted a place far from the outside world so that no moral, or religion would rule the 
 people living there. The gameplay in BioShock revolves around a highly sought after item called 
 Adam which are inside these Little Sisters. The little sisters are therefore guarded by these giant 
 Big Daddy's which won't hesitate to kill you. Positives: Amazing graphics, Amazing Sound, Great 
 atmosphere, Amazing Gameplay.
  Negatives: A little too easy even on hard mode because you can never die, Securom issues, activation 
 limitations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhankeydinks
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Every few years we get a game that truly demonstrates what art is? A game that truly shows that 
 our medium isnt about just entertainment and providing a creative outlet; to me that is the definition 
 of art though. If you look at games such as System Shock 2, Half-Life 2, and the original Deus 
 Ex those are all art. How do you collectively add everything from graphics, sound, atmosphere, 
 and actual literary storytelling into a game though? Most people these days see it as a waste of 
 time and nothing but glorified killing. You could say that about the army, nothing but glorified 
 killing that is supposedly going to secure peacebut I digress. This game will do more than pull 
 you in; this game will become your past time. I find it hard for me to quit playing even when Ive 
 got homework to do for my AP Classes. Well start with the usual, what is the story? Not to give 
 too much away your character begins this game on a plane ride over the Atlantic Ocean. The plane 
 itself crashes during flight and you are now stranded in the Mid-Atlantic with fire ablaze around 
 you and water. Lots of beautiful water. According to Ken Levine, the mastermind at what was once 
 Irrational (now 2K Boston) his artist spent 3 years on getting the water just right, and it shows. 
 As you swim through the water you see reflections of yourself, fire and oh! A lighthouse. Not a 
 lighthouse you would see off the coast of Nantucket mind you, a utopia industrial looking light 
 house. Since it really is the only ground near you must obviously swim to it (look at the plane 
 as you swim, its actually sinking into the ocean, marvelous detail!) Once in the lighthouse the 
 lights within will automatically turn on and a sign will read No Gods or Kings. Only Man! Any 
 book worm or dystopia intellectual can figure out right away where inspiration for the story in 
 this game comes from. Look at writers such as Ayn Rand (Atlas Shrugged) and Huxley (Brave New 
 World) and you will know what Im talking about. I will say this, the story is interesting and 
 worth listening to the monologues of the various citizens of Rapture and your ultimate dystopian 
 Antagonist Andrew Ryan (leader of Rapture) to gain insight about what Rapture is all about what 
 it has become. The story itself leads to climaxes then turns into another direction to keep you 
 thinking all the time.
  
  Rapture is the name of the city which is a city built below the Ocean. There people of only a certain 
 caliber of intellect are allowed to go there and do studies and live as they please based off the 
 ideal of objectivism. (Look up Ayn Rand and Objectivism for more info.) As you enter you will notice 
 a very different art style than other games made with the Unreal 3 Engine. Its a 1950s-60s art 
 deco style that is very polished, detailed, and makes it feel that more authentic. As you start 
 out when emerging from your underwater metro you will see the first Spider Splicer in the game. 
 You wont kill it just yet, as it will kill a friend of Atlas. Atlas is the first person and one 
 the main people you will work with in your adventure through Rapture. As the game progresses you 
 will learn more about every characters ideals and their goals, confusing at best and at timesnot 
 based on morals. In the game you have your usual guns, pistol, machine gun, shot gun. Then youve 
 got a chemical gun, a cross-bow, and a rocket launcher. All of these can be customized with 3 different 
 types of ammo and upgraded to perform better and faster. Better and faster is what we want, right? 
 Right! To get away from the mundane clich&eacute; s of a shooter you also get Plasmids, Gene Tonics, 
 Physical Tonics, and other unique tonics to improve your character. Some plasmids you get are Incinerate, 
 electrobolt, and Attacking Bees! Some of these are more useful than others, like attacking bees 
 is just funny to watch while incinerate and electrobolt will allow you to come up with some very 
 useful ways of killing multiple enemies. Such as, say theres a big pool of water and there are 
 3 splicers (the most common enemy) and you shoot electrobolt at the water. If you know anything 
 about water and electricity you know anything living standing in that water will die. Looking at 
 how the tonics and plasmids change your Characters genetic code is one for the books and something 
 really lets this game standout from the rest. What other games makes you think and chose your next 
 action to better counter something? What other game understands the laws of science and intellectual 
 utopias that melt into a dystopia. In all honesty I could write an essay on how this game finally 
 proves that video games arent mindless violent. If you look at allusions to the bible this game 
 has, Eve which is what powers your plasamids and Adam which is the currency that makes eve you 
 understand the brain power put into this game. If you look at Andrew Ryan and other Characters 
 names in this game that come from the dystopian fiction writing of Ayn Rand you will understand 
 this game beyond the teenage high-school book worms do. You will understand this game better than 
 someone that has played FPS games all their lives. An FPS/RPG Hybrid (RPG because you collect 
 stuff I suppose.) that finally adds everything from atmosphere, sound, music, ambience, graphics, 
 and art direction into a literary and mind indulging masterpiece. Besides a few bugs and 2Ks horrendous 
 online verification (they should have had Valve help them with verification.) this game stands 
 up to legends such as Half-Life 2 and Deus Ex. Perhaps its biggest accomplishment other than being 
 a work of art in all respects is the fact that it lives up as the spiritual follower of System 
 Shock 2. Game ran on all High settings minus DX10 on the following system:
  ATI X1900XT w.256mb
  Core 2 Duo 2.13ghz e420
  2gb of Ram
  160GB HD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_Morris
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Only played a bit of the game, and the review really only covers the one negative aspect. What 
 on earth are developers thinking when they make your character invincible in a horror themed game?!?!?!?! 
 Luckily BioShock has some of the tension intact because of the limited plasmid/ammo as well as 
 generally creepy atmosphere, but it's GREATLY diminished due to the by the fact you can wear any 
 enemy down over time. If I can use these revival chambers, then why can't the splicers? (May be 
 answered later in the game, granted) - why not make Adam/Eve slightly more abundant and have the 
 chambers use that?
  
  Surely the fear of death is a primary factor in enjoying horror? The game still gets a 9.0 overall, 
 as everything else is so damned good, but please, enough of these deathless games. A brief and 
 one note review that focuses on the negative, granted - but much like Prey, the game is suppsedly 
 Adult; so please treat the gamer like an adult and dish out some death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer-fx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Gee Mr. Bubbles Bioshock sure is a good game ....... Hey shes right Bioshock is plain and simple 
 not very plain or simple. Its very clear while playing the game its been superbly and expertly 
 woven to create a modren game masterwork.
  
  Gameplay-10
  Changing the way an FPS plays was all i heard about this games play before buying it. Its a very 
 accurate depiction, the player can use the einviroment to his addvantage. Sure many other FPS games 
 claim this too, however in Bioshock it just works unlike the others that have tired, others where 
 you end up not using all the fancy enviroment things to your addvantage. In Bioshock its highly 
 recomended to live. Trust me when a big daddy is chasing after you all you can hope for is that 
 he'll step into water so you can fry em.
  
  The other side of the gameplay. The RPG side, its quite good not as indept as i hoped but still 
 pretty cool. Different plasmids bring up your speed or better vision etc very Deus ex like. The 
 different types of ammo is also a nice addition to your arsenal. Overall Fantastic Gameplay-10
 
  
  Graphics-9
  Really really great visuals. Im running this with direct X 10 and the water looks real, the ripples 
 the drips very thing. I really can't say much more the graphics are just really really great, what 
 you'd come to expect form a modren PC -9
  
  Sound/Music-9
  Realistic sounds of the 1950s, the music , the guns and the water. the sound is almost too perfect 
 and helps to create the immersive enviroment that Bioshock has.
  
  I don't know what else to say... buy the game its fantastic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KiZZo1
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  Story : If you are a fan of thrillers with a twist you are surely going to enjoy Bioshock. If you 
 like to ask yourself too much questions then the storyline may seem a bit far fetched. I think 
 Bioshock has one of the best if not the best storyline in games I have played. Gameplay : The gameplay 
 was what the designers claimed would be the most distinguishing thing for this game. The combination 
 of physics, innovative AI and various attack options certainly give a lot of freedom. It will be 
 interesting to see what people come up with. Most of your opponents are splicers - genetically 
 modified humans. They have different powers but in the end I feel the game could have used a bit 
 more variation. Other enemies are - turrets, security bots and the big daddies - guardians of the 
 little sisters which collect the valuable substance ADAM - the genetic modifier that imbues its 
 users with super powers. There is an invention system, allowing you to create ammo, tools and even 
 genetic powers. There's also a research system with which you can learn new powers and also the 
 weaknesses of your enemies.
  
  Graphics : The game is powered by the Unreal 3 engine but it looks BETTER than Unreal 3 footage 
 I have seen. This has to do with the great art of the game - the Art Deco era and its glamor have 
 given the artists of the game chance to show some truly amazing scenery. Usually I dislike too 
 colorful and high contrast graphics but in this case I think it was just in place. The only negative 
 thing worth mentioning is that it was not running with anti-aliasing on until I installed the latest 
 beta drivers from Nvidia - 163.44 which are not WHQL certified. And this game needs anti-aliasing 
 badly because high number of polygons and high contrast caused by HDR rendering create a lot of 
 jaggies .
  
  Sound : The sound is excellent, with great and timely musical scores, excellent ambient sounds 
 and great voice acting. Unfortunately there where some minor glitches. It seemed that some sounds 
 did not playback when there were too many sounds at the same time. This seemed to happen mostly 
 when the machine gun was equipped. However this did not interfere with gameplay too much. Other 
 issue was the lack of sync for subtitles and voice but you can always check the full log of your 
 messages in the diary.
  
  Overall : Yes the game has a few problems. If you wouldn't like to deal with them wait a bit until 
 2K fixes them with a patch. However in certain aspects Bioshock surpasses any game I have played 
 by so much that it gets 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire Marius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  Bound to be an instant classic, BioShock sets a new benchmark to what a shooter/RPG should be. 
 It was well worth the wait, and will be one of those classic games that you can always re-visit 
 again and again.
  
  The game has crashed on me twice when loading a saved game, which results in your config setting 
 being lost, so I had to reconfigure the controls and hardware settings. Hopefully a patch will 
 be released soon to remedy this.
  
  Running the game on:
  
  Windows XP Pro SP2
  Intel Core 2 6600
  2 GIG RAM
  Nvidia 8800 GTX The game runs smooth as glass on my PC, which 
 is why I chose it over the Xbox 360 version, which in itself is amazing. All being said, BioShock 
 is one for the ages that should NOT be missed by anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: analgrin
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  First my pc specs:
  
  Athlon64 x2 4600+
  2 Gig OCZ premium ram (400mhz)
  Nvidia Geforce 8800GTX
  x-fi Fatal1ty sound card
  
  I was expecting amazing things from this 
 game but for me it wasnt quite as good as i thought it would be, dont get me wrong this is technically 
 very good and yet another evolutionary step in the right direction. But for me it just seems a 
 little too 'arcadey' but then this is built using the unreal engine (ive never been into unreal 
 games for the same reason) .
  
  The animations of all the characters are excellent and they move about pretty realistically. The 
 physics of the game are as good as you'd expect but not perfect. I saw a querk in the game physics 
 within 20 minutes of play, there was a mad woman talking to a gun in a pram (quite normal in this 
 game) so i killed her off, as you do. Then i retrieved ammo from the pram, accidently pushing it 
 over at the same time, only it fell onto the dead womans body where they kind of became entangled 
 together both seeming to try and shake each other off resulting in a mangled mess of steel, flesh 
 and blood shaking their way across the floor.
  
  I should also note that i have only played the game for about 4 hours so far and have only had 
 one crash to desktop (which seemed to mess up the display driver until i re-boot) , the sound in 
 game is pretty good but im not sure its working properly, i find it difficult to know which direction 
 a sound is supposed to be coming from and also firing a gun just doesnt sound right either, making 
 a 'puff wizz' noise instead of a 'Bang wizz' if that makes sense.
  
  The graphics on the whole are also very good but again not quite as amazing as i thought they were 
 gonna be. There are times when things do look very good, especially partical, water and smoke effects 
 (DX10) but then like every other game out there when u get up close to objects they can look a 
 bit naff. Also there doesnt seem to be an option for FSAA which as im using 1440x900 display means 
 jaggies are sometimes noticeable (i haven't tried overriding this in the gfx driver panel yet tho)
 
  
  Then theres the combat system which is ok but i find the close up melee fighting to be a bit clumsy 
 and not as satisfying as other games (fear, or even CoD2)
  
  Well these are my initial thoughts on the game, i will continue to play to completion and maybe 
 write another review if there are any major changes of improvement later on in game.
  But for now i think its great for showing off what your pc can do but its not THAT great.
  
 
  P. S. I also note that there is just a tiny bit of mouse lag when playing, not enough to hamper 
 gameplay but just enough to know it's there, this is probably due to my humble processor so will 
 hopefully be fixed when i upgrade in the not too distant future 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mishakoz
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  Its the 1960s, Mid-Atlantic im told. You are appropriately named Jack, and you have just crashed 
 into the Ocean. For some odd reason you find refuge in a mysterious Lighthouse, then take a submersible 
 down to the depths of the secret city of artists, scientists, and incredibly insane splicers known 
 as Rapture!
  
  Bioshock is the recently hyped about first person shooter from Irrational Games, now 2k Boston 
 and 2k Austrailia (who the fudge thought of that?) and first thing i have to say is Wow! First 
 thing that happens when you start up the game is that you are immediately immersed in the presentation 
 of this game. From the water effects to the fire, it grabs your immediate attention and now you 
 are locked in for 10-20 hours of full-on, splicer burning, Big Daddy freezing, Little Sister harvesting 
 FUN!
  
  The Art Direction is top notch, actually, better than that. The Underwater utopia of Rapture is 
 brilliantly decked out in complete Art Deco, 100% accurate too from the classic neon signs to the 
 cylindrical elevators. It being so accurate to true Art Deco architecture makes you feel more at 
 home in the 1960s, and the soundtrack and voice cast only complement that feel more.
  
  Needless to say level design is beyond top tier. No locale feels the same as another. If you were 
 to take a screenshot of a room you could probably tell very easily what level of the game that 
 is, from the fisheries of Neptune's Bounty, to the underwater forest of Arcadia, to the commercial 
 mall and theater of Fort Frolic, it is just amazing, never dulled by copy&amp; pasted landscape.
 
  
  The Story of Bioshock is so complete, complemented by the level design, voice acting and music 
 makes for one great show. Your initial goal is to save Atlas's (your friend's) family, stuck in 
 Neptune's Bounty. That is only the beginning, as you get deeper and deeper (no pun intended) the 
 story twists and what a great twist. And then the ending is pretty cool too, but i was disappointed 
 with the two endings these two endings were lame, short 1 minute clips for 20 hours of gameplay. 
 I would not call it two endings, since nothing really changes ingame, no different enemies to fight 
 or a differnet final boss, just two different 1 minute clips you can watch on Youtube.
  
  Bioshock is a ordinary FPS, with a few tricks thrown in. Plasmids are genetic modifications in 
 your left hand that complement your weapons fire. You can freeze enemies then shatter them into 
 pieces, or you can stun them with electricity then shoot them in the head. Plasmids definately 
 add to the done and done again FPS, but they don't add to much. After awhile your plasmids lose 
 effectiveness and the need to rely on regular weapons becomes apparent, turning the game into a 
 normal FPS at times.
  
  The other genetic modifications are called tonic , which act as an RPGish upgrade system. You can 
 make yourself stronger, hit with more power, or hack machine quicker. This adds a lot to the game, 
 because you gain abilities such as shocking your opponents automatically and freezing enemies with 
 your wrench.
  
  The AI in Bioshock is also very well done. Splicers are the enemies in Bioshock, and they will 
 retreat, dive for water when on fire, and interact with other NPC. However, toward later in the 
 game, the Splicers get a little too unrealistic. They will no longer dive for water when on fire, 
 instead most will miraculously deflame themselves without water. Also, most dont care if you zap 
 them with your electric bolt in water, i guess 10,000 volts doesnt hurt as much as i thought it 
 did. And at certain points of the game the Splicers just kept coming, non-stop, ridiculous. Especially 
 in Fort frolic when all the splicers carried melee weapons you became seriously lacked on ammo.
 
  
  That brings me to my next point, Fort Frolic. Story wise, completely useless (i guess there is 
 something but not much) . This level is decently fun, but the RPGistic elements apparent in this 
 level definitely make it seem like a thrown in to add length to the game. A fun level, but a lot 
 of tedious work to get from one sub to the other.
  
  Now, the Big Daddy's. They are really really fun to fight, although Bouncers &gt; Rosies. I was 
 a tad disappointed that they didnt exactly act like they did in the first Bioshock trailer. Is 
 it so much to ask for a Gears-like drilling animation for the Elite Bouncers? I was so looking 
 forward to getting drilled and my blood going everywhere, but no go... Anyway, the Big Daddy's 
 are tough fight, but always entertaining, especially since sometimes they are smart enough to avoid 
 your traps. Brilliantly done and i always look forward to fighting my next Big Daddy, i even fought 
 them with no little sister around sometimes...
  
  Now, the Little Sisters Moral dilemma... This could have really added to the game, especially since 
 it was already becoming a semi-RPG it could have done something like Knights of the Old Republic, 
 where you fight different people or team up with other people based on your decision. What do i 
 get? A 1 minute video, yay. That was worth playing 20 hours again for...
  
  I am definitely disappointed by the severe lack of death penalty. I found myself on my second run 
 trying to beat everything on one try, which included reloading when sent to a Vita Chamber. It 
 makes the game too easy.
  
  One more thing. I only experience a few glitches, but overall i was okay. My problem is that this 
 game is not catered to the lower class PC, which is something that every developer needs to look 
 into. Source does that nicely, Unreal, not so much...
  
  Overall, great game, great art direction, great immersive story, and awesome immersive city of 
 Rapture. However, the cheaply more difficult splicers and some definite flaws to the game in general 
 bring it down. Fighting infinite hordes of Splicers became a little bit too Halo 2 for me.
  
  Overall, i give this game a 9.2, but rounded down to 9.0 it seems. 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Banks_GB
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  I write to you now, in the bowels of my basement, on a decent computer with a decent monitor, tired 
 as hell. Of course that may have something to do with the fact that it's 3 in the morning. I've 
 been staying up for some time well past 5, today I wasn't going to do that. I guess I forgot about 
 BioShock. When you start this game, it's not easy to stop. I've been trying to limit my playing 
 time since I figure I want to spread out the story over several weeks - and I've found this impossible. 
 I'm the type of guy, however, who doesn't play many games - and when I do - I take a long time 
 to beat them. BioShock seems to be the exception to this rule. I repeat once you start, you cannot 
 put it down. It sucks you up into it's world. There are so many little details that make it great. 
 I figure I'll go over the very very basic of basic. Do I replay games? No. Have I found myself 
 replaying the same part 5, 6, 7, 8 times? Yes. Is what I care about above everything else story? 
 Yes. Does this game deliver? It ranks quite possibly at the top. Is it creepy? Yes. Can it be balls 
 to the wall action? Yes, and amazingly you could choose to do both the former and latter at the 
 same time. The real thing that matters (the reason, even) that you read a review is some sort of 
 clarification on whether you should buy the motherf*cker. The answer is yes. My computer can amazingly 
 run everything on high with the res at 1024, and still get an even 30 fps. This was a pretty damned 
 big surprise because my computer has minimum specs (with the exception of a nice 7800 GT) . My 
 advice is pick it up - it's easily worth 40 bucks that it's on sale. Don't worry about all the 
 technical difficulty - it really doesn't exist. As for two times? Download it through Steam if 
 you want, or suck it up. You can save it to a hard drive and not let go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skullstomper84
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock for the PC is a Great game, it's one of those games where you actually DON'T want to stop 
 playing, if you had plans for the rest of the day, you might consider canceling those plans.
  
  First of all, Graphics-wise, It's great, DX 10, or 9, you really won't really see a difference, 
 because both of which look very good. Notice: You can only play this game if your graphics card 
 supports something called shader model 3.0 , other wise, you can't play this for the PC. Without 
 V-sync option turned on, every hour or so, during an in-game cut scene, you'll get a graphical 
 tear , but it's really insignificant, and you really won't notice it. Make sure you get a second 
 opinion when you check to see if you can play this game at the graphical settings you want.
  
  Story-line-wise, this game is RICH. I won't spoil anything, but let's just say it's compelling. 
 This game is one of those games that make you actually feel emotions. You might even shed a tear, 
 curse someone's name, or just shiver in fear.
  
  Speaking of Fear, this game is fairly scary. It's a mix of jump out boo scares, and VERY clever 
 scares, You might be hacking some machine, and when you turn around, you have some guys face in 
 your face, and he screams and you battle, that was just scary as hell for me. A few times you'll 
 be walking down a hall way, and all the sudden, the lights go out, that type of thing will definatly 
 make you **** yourself a few times.
  
  Gameplay WIse, there's really only 3 types of enemies (or factions I guess you could call them.) , 
 Humans, Security Robots, and Big Daddys. All the genetically enhanced, and depressedly mutated, 
 they generally run at you and hit you with a pipe, but later on in the game, more and more of them 
 start to carry guns and grenades and such. Security Robots attack everything they see, humans, 
 big daddys, or you. Generally these are easy to take down, and hack so that they fight for you, 
 a big gameplay factor. Lastly Big Daddys are these Big Steampunk armor clad Beings that Body Gaurd 
 these girls called little Sisters . Little sisters go about there business, Big Daddys Attack anything 
 that gets to close. Big Daddys take the most time to take down, and it's fairly fun and innovative 
 about some of the ways you can take them down. Do you plant mines in front of his path, Lay electric 
 traps, or just Hit him with armor piercing ammo, It's very variable.
  
  The Game has a bunch of ways you can customize your guns, ammo for them, the way they shoot, anything, 
 You can also Get something called Plasmids, which are basically the WoW equivelant of Spells: Varying 
 from Eletric Blasts, Fire, Telekenysis, Frost, Mind Control, the list goes on. Also there are upgrades 
 you can have in effect in the background while you play, like more defense, eve (WoW equivelant 
 of Mana.) , or wierd ones like Every Time you stop moving you turn invisible, and everytime you 
 suprise hit someoen witha crowbar, you do like 10x damage.
  
  Bioshock is a GREAT game, if you can play it for PC, definatly get it. If you don't have a good 
 enough computer, get it for the xbox 360, that way you can earn achievements to show off. Either 
 way, this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vonhawkmoon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is clearly a superior shooter, I am not here to repeat what dozens of others have already 
 stated. What is so impressive about this game is that it ultimately boils down to one long inside 
 joke. One of the senior developers must have been a philosophy major in college and clearly has 
 a very deep seated hatred of Ayn Rand (as would all thinking people) . Anyway this game could easily 
 be about some alien invasion or rip into an alternate reality or chaos on a deep space explorer, 
 and still be a great game. However, setting it an art deco Ayn Rand Utopia under the sea, gone 
 to hell due to a combination of Rand's philosophy taken to extremes, coupled with unchecked genetic 
 engineering, is truly a work of genius. This is really what gaming needs to be more about. Doing 
 things that are not only crazier then anything Hollywood or TV would do, that's easy. But giving 
 us story lines and environments that push the limits of Sci Fi and Fantasy literature, along with 
 graphics and the first person interactive experience.
  
  Extremely well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bullseye501st
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  This game has got to be one of the best I have ever played. Though before I move on I cannot emphasize 
 enough on don't use strategy guides or find the whole plot behind rapture because that is where 
 the fun of the game comes. The games visuals are great and Rapture (underwater city) with its inhabitants 
 make it very creepy but I wouldn't call this a horror game unless you don't play anything scary. 
 The a. i. are great such as the Big Daddy aka the best bodyguard you could ever have. Part of the 
 fun of the game is using the Big Daddy Hypnotize Plasmid (power) to get one fighting for me and 
 just watch it crush all opposition. The gameplay is also very fun combining elements of an RPG 
 and an fps is very fun which makes the game also very customizable in the way you fight because 
 you cannot upgrade and purchase everything so it all relies on your preferences. The weapons in 
 the game are great no matter what people complain which could be the recoil and so on but you can 
 upgrade the weapons but you are given only a limited number of stations called power to the people 
 which I suggest upgrading only your favorite weapons because later in the game the weapons that 
 are not upgraded are not very useful. The enemy puts you at arms with the local genetically corrupt 
 population that are citizens from rapture and the only real way your going to know what kind of 
 enemy there are is the weapons they carry or their powers and the mini bosses big daddies which 
 I said before can act as your own personal bodyguard for a limited time if you have the right power 
 (you can keep putting the power on the big daddy but you have a limit of eve which is like mana 
 you need to find more or buy more) but even as the big daddy which I used a lot it doesn't at all 
 ruin the gameplay for their are certain areas those diving suit monstrosities can't get to. Without 
 ruining anything for those who read this the storyline is a A+ for those who like a great single 
 player experience and like to emerse themselves in the game this is your game for those who like 
 to run through the game just shooting learn how to read and get into a novel. The other great feature 
 about this game yes it is linear but you have a crossroads through out the game and your choices 
 make alternative endings. Overall this game is beautiful fun and totally worth it. I thank you 
 readers for making it this fun for a horrible grammar and a flight of ideas. P. S. Big Daddies kick 
 ass 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armalite1016
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  As I finished the game, I just had a feeling that I never really get playing most other games. 
 I wanted my friends to play it. Bioshock is such an amazing experience that you can't help but 
 want to have as many people as possible play through and go through the same adventure that you 
 did. The story and atmosphere are just brilliantly crafted to the point of near perfection. The 
 only problems with the game at all are a few technical bugs here and there, but they will be patched 
 anyway, so they won't be a problem soon. Throughout the game there are a few twists here and there, 
 but near the end a major plot twist reveals itself, rendering the player completely awe stricken, 
 and not so much at the twist; it is more at the fact that you realize what a superb game you are 
 indeed playing.
  
  Gameplay- The use of plasmids is interesting, because they expand upon the idea of supernatural 
 powers (or magical powers) that other games have delved into. Instead of just throwing fire at someone, 
 you can light any flammable thing on fire then hurdle it at your foes setting them on fire as well. 
 Then when they run for water, electrocute the water to kill them. Freeze your enemies and hit them 
 with the wrench to shatter them. Enrage your enemies to attack other enemies, so you don't even 
 have to fight. Hack into security to make it work for you. There are just seemingly countless ways 
 to do any particular task. Your weapons do tend to lose their effectiveness later on in the game, 
 but a combination of weapons and plasmids makes for very fun and interesting combat experiences. 
 The fact that you cannot die in this game is refreshing. Although some may consider it to make 
 the game too easy, it effectively erases all frustration level of the game. If this system was 
 not included in the game, even on normal difficulty, it would be very hard. This makes the difficulty 
 just right.
  
  Graphics- Absolutely amazing. At maxed settings with a 1600x1200 resolution, Bioshock stands as 
 one of the most graphically beautiful looking games to release as of yet. It also helps that the 
 environments look purely spectacular. The water in some cases just looks downright real, which 
 is very cool, considering this is the first game that I have seen where at least something in it 
 looks like it could be in a movie, as in this case, water. Some of the water looks sketchy, but 
 for the most part, this is the most realistic water ever put into any game. This isn't even talking 
 about it on DX10, either. This entire time I have been talking about the game running in DX9. Of 
 course, however, you do need somewhat of a powerful rig to run at max settings.
  
  Sound- Some technical issues, but other than that perfect. The only problem I did have (albeit 
 a very minor one) was that sometimes when a character was talking over the radio, it could be hard 
 to understand during intense combat.
  
  Value- There is no multiplayer, but the single player game is a lot longer than most single player 
 campaigns in games now a days. This added with the fact that it has very flexible gameplay mechanics, 
 and the moments you will experience playing it make the game worth every penny you spend on it. 
 One draw back is the fact that it is fairly linear and many scripted events are included, but that 
 can't exactly be considered as a problem.
  
  Overall, this is just a wonderful accomplishment in so many ways, and anyone who likes good stories 
 and engrossing gameplay should definitely check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zbiggie
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Wow simply wow. This game is amazing from the beginning to the end. They really did polish this 
 game in many ways that does separate it from the rest of the games out today.
  
  First things first. The bad in the game. Well you have a lot of people complaining about how they 
 get the black box, i haven't experienced it so I would be able to explain. I have a feeling many 
 of these people have not updated their DX. Another bad thing is the wide screen, in the game you 
 see that it isn't actually wide screen but zoomed in and cropped. This has been fixed by modders 
 and will eventually be in a patch but shouldn't have been a problem in the first place considering 
 how they did say this game was build for wide screen games. And in my experience thats the end 
 of all the bad things.
  
  Now for the good part. Graphics- I have to give this game 10/10 for graphics, i was visually stunned 
 when i was playing this game for the first few hours. The water effects were simply as realistic 
 as I have seen in any game, better then most. Yes I did run it on a 7900 go GTX 512mb, with 16:10 
 widescreen. which was amazing, but because of that it did take me a good 5 - 7 min to load any 
 level. Gameplay- well, a game that does the controls this well indeed is set on the right track. 
 switching ammo types is a middle mouse click away, switching between plasmids and guns is a right 
 click. This type of simplicity in controls i have not seen, but i love it every bit. Story- The 
 story really does get itself conveyed to you in a very known way, the entire shock series has had 
 it. through people talking to you over the radio. Through recording being picked up from all over 
 the place. And even the walls and floors were you see ads, scratches, and even warnings in peoples 
 blood. Atmosphere- Truth be told I was hoping for something along the lines of System Shock 2, 
 were I think I did **** my self. True horror. But i was pleasantly surprised, during this whole 
 game at no time did i ever really feel scared, there are a few moments were someone pops up behind 
 you, were you didn't expect them. The game really does feel like it is falling apart from the leeks 
 in the walls. to the destroyed rooms and streets. Heck sometimes you get to see this place actually 
 destroy itself. This game is a must have i really don't care who you are. Just get it, you will 
 love it. Some say they hate it but I'm willing to bet that they never played farther then the first 
 5 min. or are secretly in love with the game Zbig
  
  PS sorry for the big paragraph but it just does not want to break into smaller peices 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonamemax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This shooter game includes more than just shooting around everything that makes a move, it's a 
 mix of RPG, shooter and puzzle game (for hacking things) . The creators have put a lot of work on 
 the plasmid powers which is the most useful attack of the game and it seems like no other shooter 
 will be the same after this big hit. It takes place in an underwater city with a little problem, 
 all the citizen are dead for some exception or turned kind of half-dead half-monster. This game 
 gives a lot of stress since the little sisters and their big daddies are always wandering around 
 and you know that you must kill them in order to get some ADAM... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadNorskie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  The underwater city of Rapture is built upon the objectivist philosophy of unbound human potential 
 and excellence. The developers must have prescribed to this philosophy as well, as Bioshock has 
 certainly set the new standard in gaming excellence. Bioshock is much more than just a videogame, 
 it contains the depth and storytelling of a book or movie, but with the added benefit of being 
 able to control the carnage yourself. The year is 1961 and your character has just survived a sudden 
 plane crash in the Atlantic Ocean. Above the flames and wreckage, your character sees a mysterious 
 lighthouse rising out of the sea, and with the the alternative of the icy depths below your only 
 choice is to swim towards the light. Welcome to the city of Rapture. This very first scene lets 
 you in on a little secret, You aren't in gaming Kansas anymore . The visuals are absolutely stunning. 
 Bioshock is the first release to take full advantage of the new Direct X 10, and the flames, smoke, 
 and ominous light from the lighthouse show off the DX10 bells and whistles. The lighting and character 
 models are equally pleasing, with the details and lights on the Big Daddy, coupled with the brilliant 
 sound effects are sure to leave a first impression that you will not soon forget. Not only are 
 the graphical achievements impressive, the art design is spectacular. The world of Rapture is caught 
 in the art deco style, and the development team went to great lengths to fit every architectural 
 detail perfectly to set the mood for the immersive storytelling, which includes many the nod and 
 wink to Ayn Rand's objectivist novel, Atlas Shrugged. For in Bioshock, Ayn Rand's dream is made 
 possible by the magnate Andrew Ryan, who built his underwater Utopia to free the great and excellent 
 of the world from the hands of the governments and parasites . Thus congregated the best and brightest 
 of human society, inventors and poets, and without the constraints of the morals of government 
 or religion Andrew Ryan created ADAM, the cornerstone of Bioshock. ADAM allowed the denizens of 
 Rapture to genetically enhance, or splice , themselves. Whether for the want of an attractive appearance 
 or for the ability to light a cigarette with their finger, the populace spliced themselves and 
 their city to the brink of disaster. It has been several years since the citizens of Rapture lost 
 their minds, and it is up to you to investigate.
  
  You are enlisted by a man known only as Atlas to splice yourself, collect weapons, and fight your 
 way through Rapture to save his family. Atlas encourages you to make use of your geneticall enhanced 
 abilities, and to harvest more ADAM to become more powerful. ADAM is obtained from creepy little 
 girls called Little Sisters. Here is where Bioshock infuses another pillar of engaging storytelling, 
 morality. For to obtain ADAM you must either kill the girl, which will net you all her ADAM, or 
 set her free, which will net you only half. Your first encounter with a Little Sister will certainly 
 bring with it the hardest decision you have ever had to make in a video game. The Little Sisters 
 are not defenseless however, and to get your ADAM you must first fight through their guardian, 
 the Big Daddy. Looking like a bloated underwater diving suit, and sounding like a dying whale, 
 the Big Daddys serve as roving boss fights and will be where the game challenges the player the 
 most. ADAM is used in two ways: plasmids and tonics. Plasmids are your active, player-controlled 
 abilities, such as the ability to freeze your enemies or bug them with a swarm of bees that literally 
 fly out of your veins. Plasmid use is governed by EVE (ADAM and EVE, get it) which serves as a 
 sort of Mana bar for your abilities. Tonics are buffs and attributes, which run teh range from 
 improved hacking abilities (for safes and security cameras) to increased health regeneration and 
 the increased ability to clobber foes with your wrench. Along with the ADAM powers you will also 
 find a myriad of upgradeable weapons and ammunition to play with, my favorite being the crossbow. 
 As you burn, freeze, and crossbow bolt your way through the spliced citizens of Rapture, a deep, 
 engaging, and very dark and haunting tale will unfold.
  
  The story of Rapture and how 2K uses the game-play and the environment to immerse you in that story 
 is what makes Bioshock such a revolutionary title. Many in the industry have been asking where 
 we go from here... graphical elements are being pushed, the need to hit the mainstream markets. 
 Bioshock answers these questions, it is with the fusion of graphics, game-play, and storytelling 
 where the future lies. There is no question of whether you should try this game, you must buy it 
 now. The only question is... Who is Atlas? . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meirion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Runs real nice on my rig at 1440x900 on max settings -
  
  Vista ultimate
  AMD Athlon 5200+ X2
  2GB ram
  2x 256mb 8600GT in SLI
  
  Never drops below 40fps, sometimes 
 hits 70fps. Glad i got it on pc too cos i had the demo on my 360 and i much prefer the pc version.
 
  
  Took me about 11ish hours to complete on medium difficulty but i pretty much just went through 
 it as fast as i could, i will be playing it again to find all the little hidden bits.
  
  Only thing i could say thats bad about it is the system specs, my brother also bought it for his 
 laptop (2.0ghz core2duo, 1gb ram, x1600) and it plays terrible, he has to lower the graphics alot 
 and has to play at 800x600 resolution which sucks and he still only gets about 20-35fps.
  
  But all in all its a superb game, if your gaming rig is below the recommended requirements buy 
 it on 360, but if ur rig is upto it GET IT ON PC!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jsef64
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Isnt a man entitled to the sweat of his brow?
  
  A first person shooter, spawned from the minds of Irrational. The apparent vision was simple. 
 Create a game that brings the standard of a now mundane genre to new heights. We have lived with 
 shooters for quite some time, and they all feel very samey.
  1997 brought us Goldeneye. It set the ball rolling and 10 years later we still seem to experience 
 the same formula, just with different stories, characters and graphics. Now it cant be said that 
 this is a bad thing. For a gaming formula to last ten years, clearly, its a good one. But time 
 takes its toll on everything and too few games have revolutionized, just extended. Bioshock promised 
 to change that. But whether or not it achieved its goal is something that needs a looking at.
 
  
  The game itself is fuelled by fantastic ideas. Choice, control, variety and the ability to wander 
 are to name a few elements in the game that strengthens it no end. But the most important one of 
 all is the story. Every game of every genre needs a story for it to truly succeed, (with a few 
 minor exceptions) . The story is what drives the progress through the game and what you tend to 
 find is that if you have a weak story, you have a weak game. In theory, the story of Bioshock 
 is fantastic, but as it plays out it, it seems thin and occasionally disjointed in the way that 
 it is presented. Often, I found myself feeling angry at the way the story has been fragmented to 
 be applicable to the game. Find x to complete y feels too tired for something that is trying 
 to be so new. Especially when the idea is repeated several times in a row. Another major qualm 
 I had about the story is the way the twists were presented. Each time a change of direction in 
 the plot came along, I felt disappointed in the lack of attention it received. Now unfortunately 
 I cannot elaborate any further for fear of giving away plot details, but for elements in the plot 
 that were so important, they were spread far too thinly. I am sure most of you have played the 
 demo, or at least are aware of the opening sequence. You are on a plane and the plane crashes, 
 and that is how the whole story begins. You know little of your past, though a photograph is shown 
 on screen. Obviously questions start to arise. Who are you? Why are you on the plane? Where is 
 the plane going? Why does it crash? Still limited by an inability to elaborate on spoilers, all 
 I can say is dont keep your hopes up for the answers because they come weak and thin.
  
  Overall I found the story extremely disappointing, especially after seeing the hype that was behind 
 it. The conclusion was so short and so much was crammed into such a little space of time, all I 
 could help feeling was: why did I just spend the last several hours storming through to get to 
 this? There are two endings too, the one you get is dictated by your choices through out the game. 
 Now this brings me on to the second major aspect of the game: the morality.
  
  Another major drive that had been highlighted during the games production was the choices you 
 were able to make. Not only with regards to the little sister issue, but the way you go fight, 
 too. There was so much talk of how exciting it was to approach each combat situation differently 
 and I am happy to say that this was not so much of a disappointment as the story was. However, 
 while those options were there, in my eagerness to get through the story, I did not heed many alternatives 
 for I found myself able to plough through the enemies, guns ablaze, without ever coming across 
 a time where I was pushed for tactical based battles. I rarely even ran out of ammo. I suppose 
 you cant name this game a survival horror, but it certainly possessed factors that make those 
 sorts of games so tense, other than the fact that weapons were abundant throughout, removing the 
 heart in mouth feeling that you rejoice in enduring while playing those games. Now for some praise
 
  
  For a game to truly implement real life morality, it would cause all sorts of problems. We tend 
 to play games to escape the reality of the material world. How wise is it to bring complex decision 
 making into the world of the game? Not very, I say. Which is why I feel Bioshock executes the 
 decision making in an unparalleled way. Shadows of true morality are all that exist in the game, 
 hinting at complexity, but really limiting it so that we are bound to simplicity. You can employ 
 a realistic moral code, or feed a mischievous cruelty, (or even a malevolence that you inflict 
 upon the material world anyway) its your call. It keeps it simple, but nevertheless it is there 
 where it has not been there before. In the future of gaming, we may find it getting more complex, 
 but so long as the distinction between reality and fiction, right and wrong, rewarding and damaging 
 still exists, this formula will continue to succeed.
  
  Graphics wise, this game is too difficult to land on one side of the fence. A lot of the game you 
 awe at the graphics, but much of the time you laugh at the inferior character models and various 
 other hindrances. Water in this game is amazing. It truly is. It is, for the most part, so real 
 it almost could be real and without its presence the game would be marred. It adds such atmosphere 
 and the claustrophobia of being so deep beneath the ocean surface comes about you and marks an 
 undercurrent of adrenaline throughout the game. The era the city was built brings in an amazing 
 new architecture to the art of the game and results in what is assumedly a faithful recreation 
 of the 1950s art-deco style of America.
  
  Sound wise, the game succeeds, and I really cant make any complaints because the triggered music 
 continues an idea that has been around for sometime in games, drawn from the realms of film. Though 
 it does not make the events as exhilarating as games such as F. E. A. R, it helps complete the experience 
 deep down in Rapture.
  
  Finally, a lot of the time during the game, it feels unfinished and unpolished. I mentioned character 
 models, and retrospectively, they are the biggest disappointment in the game because by looking 
 at the environment itself, it is clear so much work has gone into it and then a character comes 
 along and it looks in dire need of an update. Half-Life 2s character models were beautiful; 
 the creases in the face, the clarity of the skin, the movement of the lips, perfectly synced to 
 the sounds of the voices. It is such a shame Rapture could not be blessed by something similar 
 to complete the realism of the underwater city. To make the unbelievable more believable
  
  Just as Oblivion set a new standard for next-generation role-playing games, we can expect to 
 see much needed improvements in future games that draw on this new and exciting formula. Well done 
 Irrational, though the game itself is not the image of perfection, you have brought in a new 
 standard and the future is bright. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofan013
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game. This shows where we have come in the graphics of are games. The only thing i 
 was disappointed in was there was not much of a story. The tactical RPG nature and how every move 
 can make a different outcome made up for that. The Big Daddies werent as difficult as I expected 
 though, according to the hype they were the toughest thing in the game. Not my favorite first person 
 shooter, but it's up there. I also found there was enough supply of first-aid kits and EVE to not 
 die and have to start back at a check point. There werent a whole lot of auto-save points eithere 
 which made me have to stop and save often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tabarnak!
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Well I won't make a big review here since there's already a lot of people who described what the 
 game is. But for those out there who played System Shock 2 back when it came out in 1999 and loved 
 it, you won't be disappointed by Bioshock.
  
  Sure, I preferred System Shock 2 for setting and atmosphere which was a bit scarier, but gameplay-wise, 
 expect an almost exact replica, with a bit of differences here and there of corse. Let me tell 
 you something: if system shock 2 was to be re-released with the same graphic engine as bioshock, 
 i'll be the first to reserve my copy!
  
  Bioshock delivers for fans of games like Oblivion, Deus Ex, Stalker and naturally the System Shock 
 franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbazar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Well I guess I'm one of the lucky ones, BioShock ran well the first time I played it. I know a 
 lot of folks have had issues getting it to run, or getting sound on Vista. I have a 2-month old 
 God Box though and I suspect the developers did final development and testing on a box configured 
 similar to mine. I have an Intel quad core 6700 xtreme edition, 4GB ram (though only 2 Gb used 
 as I'm running Vista Ultimate 32 bit) . Soundblaster Xi-Fi (not an extreme version) , dual nVidia 
 8800 GTX's in SLI. Think that's all the key stuff. (pretty sweet huh?!)
  
  Anyway, BioShock runs like a dream on my computer, fast graphics and good sound. And I'm just having 
 a Huge blast with it. The first analogy I thought of was it's like an Art Deco (30's style architecture) 
 Half-Life 2. The baddies are mutant humans not alien like humanoids in helmets, but kind of similar 
 game play, where you run around a gorgeous environment, some shooting but not just. There's some 
 puzzle solving, hacking of devices, and the real cool idea of Plasmids which are genetic enhancements 
 you can buy giving you powers like incinerate, freeze, electric shock, and many more. Then there 
 are the Big Daddies - these guys are tough, and they wander around. You can pick the time and place 
 to fight them - wandering Boss Battles. The story is great too. A definite BUY recommendation if 
 you have a pretty beefy newer computer. Also, if you're one of the unlucky folks who does have 
 a decent computer but have problems running it, I'd say don't think about returning it or anything, 
 hold onto it and wait for the inevitably-imminent patch. You won't regret it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssjskipp-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Is a man not entitled to the sweat of his brow?
  'No,' says the man in Washington, 'it belongs to the poor.'
  'No,' says the man in the Vatican, 
 'it belongs to God.'
  'No,' says the man in Moskau, 'it belongs to everyone.'
  I rejected those answers. I chose the impossible. I chose, Rapture! -Andrew Ryan
  
  A while 
 ago, I decided to look up some next-gen shooters, as well as look up what's coming out over the 
 summer quarter. When I stumbled upon BioShock, I as amazing. The game looked pretty, had that 'next-gen' 
 shine to it. It looked violent, a Big Daddy stabbing a drill into a guys hand (yeah, THAT trailer) . 
 It looked innovative, and it made me wonder, What in the world is the storyline of this game?! 
 That initial curiosity turned into an obsession. I was amazing at the idea they presented - An 
 underwater Utopia. A world, complete with theaters, bathrooms, restaurants, bars, and even a forest 
 - a self sustaining utopia. I bough BioShock the day it came out -- totally worth it.
  
  Issues! That's right, what you've heard is true! The PC version (for me and many others) can be 
 tricky! You have to find just what is going wrong, and how to fix it! For me, I put the game in, 
 installed it, and it ran just fine. As soon as I got to the first loading screen, it would crash. 
 After that first attempt, the game wouldn't even start. Apparently, to fix the second problem (not 
 even starting) , I had to run it with the -dx9 extension. And to fix the other problem (not getting 
 past loading screen) , I had to turn off High Detail Shaders . Just in case any of you have the 
 same problem.
  
  Once I got everything running, I was immediately caught in the world of Rapture. BioShock isn't 
 your average run and gun, spray and pray, kill kill kill, first person shooter. It's a mystery. 
 You enter a world with the expectation of seeing a Utopia -- instead you're greeted with a destroyed 
 world. Rubble everywhere, blood splattered on the walls and floors, and leeks (you're underwater 
 - leeks can't be good) . This is one of the immersive factors of BioShock... what the hell happened 
 here?!
  
  On to the review of well known game aspects!
  Gameplay - 9/10:
  Very innovative ideas, but I feel they could have gone a teeny bit further with it. Plasmids are 
 amazing - Fire at your fingertips, baby! Their explanation of how plasmids work, as well as how 
 these things were discovered, really draw you into this world of Rapture.
  And then there's Little Sisters and Big Daddies. The moral choice you have to make in this god 
 forsaken utopia. Will you save them? Or kill them for personal gain? It's up to you. (and the battle 
 with a Big Daddy can be quite deadly)
  
  When you die in BioShock, you're immediately revived at the nearest... revive... station (sorry, 
 forgot the name) . This was a bummer, since there's REALLY nothing you CAN'T beat. (meaning running 
 in crazily can work) .
  
  Storyline - 10/10:
  Very linear, but I liked it a lot. Nice and twisty.
  
  Graphics - 10/10:
  If I had High Detail 
 Shaders working, it would be even more amazing, but I was impressed none the less. They successfully 
 created a 1940s world, underwater. Very awesome art in the game (and pretty water) .
  
  What I wanted to see / would be awesome to see:
  Some sort of game mode where you can just live 
 in Rapture -- a sort of survival mode, where you take the role of a citizen of Rapture, killing 
 Big Daddies for the Little Sister's Adam, splicing more and more, and getting power as you live 
 -- that would have been pretty neat.
  
  More active plasmids... I only had 1 or 2 unused plasmids (like, actual ones, not passive ones, 
 tonics)
  
  And my advice to you:
  If you get errors with the game, see them through - it's worth it.
  It you have Game Fly, use 
 it. You can most likely beat the game in a few days -- save yourself a few bucks.
  It does have replay value -- it's fun to just play the game! Regardless of storyline, you do get 
 the need to just run off and explore -- I've spent hours just clearing out levels according to 
 my map, regardless of what they arrow tells me (I AM NO SLAVE!)
  Great game, very fun, totally worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mchristie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  I have not enjoyed a game as much as this in a long time. The moment you install it you know its 
 going to be a class act, the same as when you install HL2, BF2 or Oblivion, they just feel right. 
 Its obvious 2k had a vision and have stuck to it, i love to play games made by gamers! Where to 
 start? well it has to be the graphics. I am running BS on Nv 7950 Gt, a 2.3 Amd duel core with 
 2 Gig Ram. and it looks very good. i was going to upgrade to Vista and a DX10 video card for BS 
 but am very happy with the performance of my system ,so i will save myself some cash for when i 
 really have to upgrade. The water effects are very good ,as you would expect from a game set in 
 a underwater city. They ripple and splash as water does .The fire effects area little worse, very 
 orange and a little bland. The city is quite atmospheric, very spooky and definitely looks unique 
 in its art style ,ok its a little gray in places and very dark but it looks better than anything 
 i have played for some time and runs very smoothly. I think that may just be the problem with the 
 graphics, in all the hype the graphics were supposed to be the best ever seen. Don't get me wrong 
 they are good, but not ground breaking!! maybe i have to go DX10 after all.
  
  The game play. I think there are two kinds of FPS, the mindless blaster and the thinking mans mindless 
 blaster. Well BS caters for both mindsets . you can set traps, work out your strategy to overcome 
 your enemy ,hack security systems, use the enviroment to your advantage, or you can shoot the s**t 
 out of anything that moves! I shot the s**t out of everything and anything that moves without all 
 that thinking and planing stuff. now i have to admit i haven't completed BS yet bout ten hours 
 in and call me a wuss but i have it set on easy, i am a casual gamer that has a job and a life! 
 no WOW for me. I like instant action. When i saw all the hype on BS i thought it looked a little 
 to much like a Hitman or Thief with all its tactics stealth and thinking about stuff, but it feels 
 more like doom 3 than swat 4 or rainbow 6 to me. Now i don't want to sound like a mindless blaster 
 freak, i just like the choice weather to think or to shoot, BS gives me that option and choice. 
 I am not going to mention the story, i'm sure you have heard enough to wet get it your apiitite.
 
  
  overall the sound is very good, especially the voice acting and enviromental effects. The only weakness 
 maybe the weapons, they sound a little weak. Thats not much of a problem as you will want to use 
 special powers as much as possible, they sound allot more meaty.
  
  If future games have such a high production value we have many years of quality gaming ahead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chefjase
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  I'm loving the game so far. All the neon in he game is a bit overwhelming, but I play in hour bursts. 
 The frame rate also slows at times on my computer, but not so much that I can't play. I have experienced 
 sound problems as well. I play with over the ear headphones, so the lack of sound is bizarre when 
 it happens. I usually have to reload the program twice before the sound comes back, but to me the 
 game is worth the hassle. I hope that a patch will come out soon to fix it. There have been some 
 genuinely creepy moments, such as turning around to see a nurse splicer up close and in bright 
 lights, and going up against a Big Daddy is always fun, especially when you see the damage modeling 
 as you try to kill it. Anyway, I highly recommend the game to anyone, but the 360 version is a 
 bit more stable, if you can aim well with the 360 controlller. I can't, hence the reason I got 
 it for PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcscd
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  This game is a ball to play. The graphics are amazing, the game play is like no other game i have 
 played. If you are like shooters but don't like the same think over and over, well heres the game 
 for you. I have gotten about 34 hours so far and it is still so much fun. If you have got the system 
 what are you waiting for go buy it. I think gamespot needs to rate this a ten. This game is very 
 dynamic. Nothing happens the same twice. You get two ways to beat the game the game I have only 
 found out one way but I will let you find out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sillyhippo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  What I liked:
  
  -Very immersive atmosphere from a very cohesive and effective combination of sound, lighting, and 
 shadows. The background music really helps you get into the game, and the ramblings of splicers 
 as they stumble along the hallways of Rapture are incredible. The game's psychological horror factor 
 is very well presented, and in some cases can make you jump up in your seat.
  
  -Great story so far; its implementation in the form of audio diaries allows gamers who want to 
 explore and learn about the story do so, whereas those who just want to kill and mess around with 
 plasmids ignore the story.
  
  -Very good balance between graphics and optimization. The graphics are still very good (I'd say 
 slightly better than STALKER) , but definitely imperfect. The optimization is worth it; I can run 
 it at playable frames per second on near-max settings (just reflections turned off, which should 
 just make water less pretty) with a P43Ghz/1GB 400Mhz RAM/7900GS - a combination that costs about 
 as much as the basic 360.
  
  -Fun gameplay with various plasmids and weapons. Abilities such as telekinesis and incinerate are 
 fun ways to add replay value, since I can go through a fight by stunning and whacking with wrench, 
 or enraging a strong target in the middle of the room while keeping my distance and picking off 
 targets with a pistol. As for the bad, however:
  
  -One of the worst game launches I've seen to date. The terrible DRM that was mostly unknown the 
 general public with securom SUCKS, as it originally only allowed 2 simultaneous installations of 
 the game, and if you have to delete the game, whether through uninstallation errors (really bad 
 with the steam launch, I'll get to that later) , or through a hard drive malfunction/virus and need 
 to reformat, you lose an installation. There have been cases where it doesn't let you manually 
 uninstall to get your activation back, so the limit has been changed to 5, and will probably with 
 enough complaints be lifted.
  
  -The steam preload launch was broken, but this was just as much steam's error as 2k's. People who 
 preloaded only received 80%, so there was a mad rush to download as people overloaded steam servers 
 for ~500MB - and, although they were supposed to be able to play the instant the game was launched, 
 it wasn't activated until several hours later. Now, those who successfully downloaded (like me) 
 were screwed over by half-broken decryption setups that made running the game impossible and forcing 
 the need to manually uninstall and sometimes a clean reinstall of steam, especially when verification 
 fails (like in my case) . Of course, within a few days everyone will have this running, so I can't 
 take much off for this.
  
  -Retarded driver/OS bugs are rampant, causing audio issues, and, for 7900GS users, 5min+ load times 
 in some cases.
  
  -Lack of multiplayer. I understand this is a singleplayer game, but a simple deathmatch/CTF with 
 maybe 10 hours worth (max) of balancing would do it.
  
  Of course, the launch snafus were caused by a lack of foresight, but for the majority of casual 
 gamers who waited for reviews before buying, they will be nonexistent. The technical errors will 
 undoubtedly be patched, and multiplayer will hopefully be added (like in system shock 2) , so it's 
 hard to take off too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Switchbreak
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  My experience with Bioshock, outside of a pesky menu option that won't save when I exit, has been 
 pretty much perfect - and I'm running the notorious Windows Vista. So the bugs people are having 
 are not global by any means.
  
  I don't like that it revives you automatically when you die - the enemies you were fighting should 
 at least heal or something so you can't just win with no strategy at all. However, the strategic 
 options in the game are so rich that it makes you want to use them even though you could just keep 
 brute force dying and reviving until you win.
  
  The graphics are nothing an Xbox 360 couldn't do, so expect lower-resolution textures and models 
 than you might be used to out of competing PC games - this is made up for, though, by the amazing 
 art design and the immersive world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow-909
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  Like GameSpot said, This game is a bit easy. If you are close a Vita Chamber and your fighting 
 a Rosie, then you don't even have to use Health Hypo's to heal yourself. Keep fighting him until 
 your dead, just within 3 seconds you respawn and you can continue killing the same Rosie.
  
  That's the advantage of this game. If you die, you won't lose anything. Ok you lose a few seconds 
 :P but that's all. I dodn't found any bugs or other dissapointing things, so I just a one hell 
 of a game! The graphics are great! Great Engine too, runs perfectly on my GeForce 7600 GT.
  
  I would still give this game a 10, because the little issue about the Vita Chamber is just 
 a too small part of the game to lower the score...
  
  Excellent Game!
  
  Greets Shadow... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrSmileyFace
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  This is a great game besides the fact of the sound issues that im sure im not alone in. Im sure 
 they are hard at work trying to fix it. So from the hour of scratchy or no sound at all i could 
 stand i liked what i saw and what i kind of got from the subtitles i enabled. I love the settings 
 that this is taking place because not that many games if any have been set in an underwater city 
 that has just been torn up. The weapons and the powers that you get are really cool to play around 
 with especially cause i barely have scratched the surface on this game because im waiting for the 
 sound to get fixed cause i tried everything i could on my end aside from buying a new sound when 
 i have no problems in any other games. I have a feeling that this game will be great if and when 
 they fix the sound issue that a lot of people are having. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaBigDogg
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Let me start of by saying this is one of the most innovative games that I have played to date. 
 The amount of decisions and choices the player is able to make is astounding. I love the plasmids, 
 and weapon combinations since you need to evenly balance them out. The graphics are amazing, no 
 other way to describe it and it looks great on a Direct X level 10 card. The water detail and shaders 
 make for a pleasing experience. The game concepts and story line is pretty cool too, I've not seen 
 anything like it before.
  
  However, the game is plagued with bugs. On my Desktop there are countless sound issues (stuttering 
 mostly ) when cut scenes are shown. As for laptops the games is not to user friendly. On my Laptop 
 which is an HP Pavilion dv9500t, I had to install the latest beta drivers from Nvidia which are 
 actually Desktop drivers and not Laptop drivers, meaning you need to trick the laptop into using 
 them which is a huge pain in the butt. Numerous random EXE errors, black screens where videos should 
 be and occasionally half loaded doors when traveling from level to level. PC Specifications:
  CPU Intel Pentium 4 Processor 650 w/HT Technology (3.4GHz,800FSB)
  Motherboard Intel 945G Express
 
  Monitor Dell 1704FPV
  Video Card Diamond Viper ATI X1600 PRO PCI Express 512MB Video Card
  Sound / Speakers Creative SB Live! Value/ Altec Lansing
  Mouse / Pad Logitech MX 310 Optical 
 Mouse
  Dell E510N
  
  Laptop Specifications:
  Windows Vista Home Premium (32-Bit)
  Intel Core 2 DUO CPU T7500 @ 2.20Ghz
  2 Gigabytes of RAM
  Nvidia Geforce 8400m GS
  HP Pavilion 
 dv9500t 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannuck38
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock kicks off in a plane in the year 1960 flying over the Atlantic Ocean and well it crashes. 
 You are the only survivor of the play crash and it just so happens it crashes right next to a what 
 seems like a light house. As you enter the light house you find a under water transport device 
 called a bathyphere and this is wear you journey starts. On your way down you are complimented 
 with a movie where man named Andrew Ryan explains how he has built a city where science, art, and 
 freedom reign far above the oppressive governments and morals known as Rapture. Now you being thinking 
 you're about to enter and marvelous utopia but from the second you enter Rapture it is clear something 
 has gone very wrong. A once glamorous art-deco 50s themed wonderland is now in flooding ruin. But 
 it is the prettiest ruin you have ever seen. The city of Rapture actually seems like a real city 
 no room has the same look and every inch of the game is screaming at you to explore. The Graphics 
 in the Bioshock are the best I have ever seen. Although not quite in Crysis standards.
  
  Everything is extremely smooth and just a joy to look at and water has never looked so real. As 
 water falls from the leaking roofs you can see through them just as you would in real life. Due 
 the the huge leaps in genetic science Rapture's Scientists made you are able to wield amazing powers 
 such as Turning people into ice, shooting lightning out of your finger tips and even ones that 
 can hypnotise enemies to help you. But those are just the tip of the iceberg. Tonics are also available 
 to help you customize yourself with just a quick example there are ones that make you a better 
 fighter, hacker, and make you physically stronger. Now this may seem very over whelming but it's 
 done in a way that makes it a snap. But here is the catch to get these powers you have to have 
 Adam and to have him you need to basicilly kill alot of monsters. Also you will experience genetic 
 memories that pop up in locations that show events passed. The enemies in the game are the genetically 
 over abused citizens or Rapture called Splicers and the security bots and cameras which can be 
 hacked via a fun little mini game and after they are hacked they help you which really comes in 
 handy. Aside from plasmids you have guns as means of taking down you're foes and you can upgrade 
 the ones you like to make them more powerful at the free but rare upgrade stations. You'll most 
 likely use plasmids to weaken your foes and guns to take them down. You're health is kept up by 
 collecting health packs and ammo for you guns and EVE is your plasmids ammo so to speak. All these 
 items can be found by exploring the many locations of Rapture, dead bodies, and vending machines 
 where you use money to buy everything but plasmids and tonics. You can also make custom ammo by 
 finding junk lying around and bringing it to an U-invent station. Once again thos may all seem 
 like too much to worry about in one game but it works so well and is so easy to use it just becomes 
 second nature. The music in the game really works 50's classics given these dark ruins a creepy 
 feel and gives a great atmosphere that this place once was happy. The only real complaint I have 
 about Bioshock is that sometimes the enemies seem to just be running around aimless while having 
 a pretty good aim on you. And that they don't react to getting shot. Another thing that is a tad 
 wrong is when doing a mission you are guided by an arrow and it feels like the game doesn't want 
 you to explore the nooks and crannies but it does help if you get lost. Also I wish the game was 
 a tad longer but it has a very high replay value because of how treating the little sisters effects 
 to story. A lot of people have complained that the lack of penalty for dieing makes the game too 
 easy (when you die you end up in the nearest vita chamber with everything left the way it was from 
 when you died) but I think it makes the game easier for anyone to pick up and play. Also the saving 
 feature makes it great for just picking up and stopping off you can save at any point in the game 
 making it very inviting for if you wanna play for hours or if you can only fit in a few minutes. 
 Overall Bioshock is a gaming treat that can not be missed and I can recommend it to anyone who 
 can get there hands on it. Yes it does have a few problems and will most likely need a few patches 
 but not too many. A very well made and polished game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nebolith
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  When i downloaded this from direct2drive. com I was pretty skeptical but after the first 5 minutes 
 of play I was completely blown away by this games, content.
  
  It is so impressive in so many ways, but ill name a few.
  
  First, its not a 'shoot everything' 
 kind of game... if you shoot everything you will die, there is defintely some strategy required.
 
  
  Unlike Doom and its predacessors, you can customize your character with various traits and abilities, 
 and even an alignment of sorts (good or evil, which i won't spoil) . the controls are easy to use 
 and feel right.
  
  Secondly, the sound is amazing... I am lucky enough to have a top of the line sound card and run 
 the game in 5.1 and its downright freaky. The voices, come from behind you or to the side and is 
 a clear indicator of danger, which seems to have been lost in other games.
  
  Lastly, the graphics, which are nothing short of 'creepy'... Take any FPS, add City of Lost Children 
 (the movie) and Alice in Wonderland and you get Bioshock.
  
  I can easily say this is THE best game I have purchased in the genre, and I own them all..
  
 
  I have read other posts about technical issues.. I have not had a SINGLE one... Flawless installation 
 and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CONTRACTKILLA13
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  BioShock opens with a bang, but the overall plot focuses more on making an emotional impact than 
 an explosive one. The year is 1960, and you're flying over the Atlantic Ocean. One mysterious plane 
 crash later, you're floating in the water, apparently the lone survivor, surrounded by the flaming 
 wreckage of the aircraft. But there's a lighthouse on a tiny island just at the edge of your view. 
 Who in their right mind would put a lighthouse this far out? You swim closer and discover a small 
 submersible called a bathysphere waiting to take you underwater. After catching a breathtaking 
 view of what's below, you're sent into the secret underwater city of Rapture. Masterminded by a 
 somewhat megalomaniacal businessman named Andrew Ryan, this city is driven by its own idea of total 
 freedom, with capitalism completely unhindered by governmental meddling and science unhinged from 
 the pesky morals of organized religion. Sounds like the perfect society, right? Well, even before 
 you step out of your bathysphere and into the city, it becomes obvious that everything has gone 
 horribly wrong down here. The city is trashed, and genetic freaks called splicers roam around, 
 attacking anything that gets in front of them. At the heart of the matter is a powerful, corrupting 
 substance called ADAM, which makes all this genetic tinkering possible and allows you to get your 
 first plasmid power, the ability to shoot lightning out of your fingertips. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shervinv
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for about 5 hours now... so here's the review so far. This is a first 
 person shooter, where you can upgrade your character with various powers. The environment is definitely 
 different and appealing. You're underwater, and it's 1960! So there's a nice juxtaposition of oldies 
 music and style and modern technology which is quite refreshing. The storyline, which you uncover 
 as you go along by listening to diaries people have dropped, is quite interesting. The game has 
 the right element of creepiness, which it combines with eerie 60's music... a-la The Shining , 
 which makes it quite atmospheric. Now a couple of issues with the game... first, the shooting physics 
 are not very good for a shooter. Your opponents move around way too fast for any kind of aiming 
 which you may be used to playing good shooters where you can creep up and snipe people... it's 
 basically aim in the general direction and fire away. Much more arcade feel than a realistic shooter 
 feel. Second, there's definite driver compatibility concerns with the sound and the graphics. I 
 have an Nvidia 7900 GTX, so I'm running directx 9, and the bloom effects are poor, especially when 
 there's supposed to be myst. The sound had lots of crackling when I had EAX enabled and I had to 
 turn it off. The opening scene had parts of the sky missing... but I've had no crashes. I definitely 
 recommend this game, it will appeal to both RPG and first person shooter fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erebus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  This addendum assumes you have read the Gamespot review.
  
  TECHNICAL:
  
  For many players, Bioshock's technical issues marred its launch for both the PC and Xbox 360. For 
 PC users, download the latest version of DirectX 9.0c from Microsoft and new/beta drivers for your 
 video card (both released August 2007) . Next, your audio drivers should be installed from its manufacturer's 
 website, not through Windows update. Once these conditions are satisfied and depending on the power 
 and stability of your computer, the game should run as intended without any crashes.
  
  However, there are instances of game failure resulting from defective components or improperly 
 configured systems. To very PC stability, run torture tests to stress CPU and memory coponents 
 with intense calculations using programs like Prime95 and Memtest; the programs should not report 
 errors even after several consecutive hours of running. DIEING IN BIOSHOCK:
  
  The penalty for death includes a few subtlties that Gamespot neglected to include with their review 
 of the game. Ultimately, the death penalty is time, and it can indeed evoke obscenities from the 
 player. The lack of a Game Over screen does not demean the overall adventure and challenge to be 
 found in Bioshock. Quicksaves, for instance, have been the surefire way of cheating both death 
 and skill since 1990. Bioshock's player death handling ultimately renders Quicksaves obsolete (aside 
 from potential game stability issues, of course) . Enemies continuously repopulate the gameworld 
 and will often stand between you and your place of death, further dwindling your supplies and increasing 
 the possibility of further deaths. For instance, you might fall to a Big Daddy protecting a little 
 sister only to realize that the little sister is nowhere to be found upon your return; she has 
 been escored to safety. Hence, continuing to assault the Big Daddy would be an exercize in futility. 
 If you choose to leave the area altogether and return later, the Big Daddy's health will regenerate 
 completely. SECRETS ABOUND:
  
  Secrets are everywhere in Bioshock, and staying on the guided path will result in several missed 
 opportunities to find the hidden items and plasmids they have to offer. However, most of the hidden 
 plasmids can be acquired later in the game.
  
  ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE EXPERIENCE:
  
  Enemy AI is dependend on the environment they are in and the types of weapons they have available. 
 If you encounter an enemy in a hallway there is little for them to do but attack or run. Enemies 
 generally don't get too squirrelly. However, if you encounter an enemy or two in a series of corridors, 
 prepare to deal with sneaky attacks from flank or behind, with dodging and circling of nearby objects 
 or colums. For instance, at one point in the game I heard a Splicer yammering as though he saw 
 me, and I went towards the sound... no one was there. I knew that he knew I was looking for him, 
 and he used a large column in the area to keep out of sight. I circled the column one-and-a-half 
 times before I even saw him or his weaponry for the first time, and it was on. Using grenades, 
 he attempted to ricochet them around corners to get me while backing off... ironically in a manner 
 players generally utilize to outwit the AI. As he neared death, he dropped one final live grenade 
 on the ground at his feet as I closed in for the killing blow. He didn't want to die alone. The 
 enemies never get stuck or continually attack from the same position, which makes it that much 
 more believable. There is no reason to believe the splicers are super soldiers. However, if you 
 blink at the wrong moment, the Big Daddy WILL own your ass in a heartbeat. REFLECTIONS
  
  The three difficulty settings go a long way to help define your playstyle. I would recommend the 
 average hardcore FPS fan play the game on hard, whereas the aspiring novice should play on the 
 easy setting. The rest of us should enjoy the medium difficulty. Ultimately, Bioshock would deserve 
 a 10 if the game was slightly less linear, because that would make it a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKinger_80
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  -The game is so refreshing and new it is a buy, its the best game this year so far
  -The plasmids 
 are so useful and creative
  -The atmosphere of the city is so realistic its kinda odd how it has so much detail, its feels 
 that it was lived in and died in
  -how the game unravels is so stunning and the ending is so unexpected -the moral choice idea should 
 be put into more game not just the shooter but every game
  -its the most fun that i had in a place traped full of insane people trying to kill u
  -The big 
 daddy and little sister concept is so cool
  -its in my top 3
  -The variety levels is so odd and amazing i thought the levels would be genrelly the same
  THE 
 BAD
  -The game has no multiplayer the second game should have multiplayer and coop mode
  -The game is kinda easy
  -the developers said that there was a civil war but i didn't see much 
 splicer vs splicer action
  -the variety of enemies is kinda limited but didnt really bother me
  -the tactics of a big daddies 
 can be easly overcome and the variety of big daddies was limited 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markt50
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 23, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I have now played the demo and the full versions on both the 360 and PC. The first thing I should 
 mention is that I was quite surprised at how well the PC version ran when compared to it's console 
 cousin. I was playing it on a Vista machine with an 8800GTX and the rest of the machine was high 
 spec. suffice to say it ran very nicely.
  
  The graphics are for the most part excellent, I did notice a few textures that looked a little 
 low res for my liking, but for the most part the graphics were top notch. I want to give special 
 mention to the artistic style of the game. It has been done in quite a remarkable way, and for 
 some reason I keep thinking it looks just like how I'd imagined some of the settings from Jules 
 Verne's 'Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea'. I have noticed a lot of complaints regarding the 
 implementation of widescreen in this game. Maybe I just don't understand the issue at hand, but 
 I didn't notice any problems playing the game at 1920x1200 on the Dell 2407 24 widescreen, it looked 
 fine to me.
  
  The sound is also very good, the music seems to capture a feel of the 1920's or 30's and again 
 adds to the overall atmosphere. I have noticed quite a few people having problems with sound on 
 X-Fi cards. I must say that the sound worked fine on the X-Fi I played with. The only problem I 
 noticed was that occasionaly the surround sound from the 7.1 system seemed a bit wierd, It is difficult 
 to describe, but it was almost as if there were certain spots where the sound volume would drop 
 significantly. I only noticed it a few times, and if I changed my viewing position it would suddenly 
 jump back to normal volume. It was almost like some kind of audio blind spot!
  
  Onto the gameplay. First thing is the controls, I found the default mouse controls way to sensitive, 
 I turned it down to the lowest mouse sensitivity but still found it a bit to sensitive for me. 
 It was no big problem though. I must say that the way combat has been implemented in the game is 
 excellent, I found myself enjoying each encounter with the bad guys. I also love the genetic mutation 
 abilities you get and the graphic effects for some of them are very nice. The environments seem 
 quite interactve whilst playing which was impressive.
  
  So why the low score ? Well, there is a big problem at the moment. The decision to include securom 
 copy protection with the game seems to have caused quite a stir. As things stand it seems you are 
 only able to activate the game 2 times, after that you are at the mercy of either 2kgames or securom 
 themselves. If this doesn't bother you then fine, but it is my personal opinion that this is a 
 show stopping, critical flaw. I class it in the same light as a bug which would stop me from playing 
 a game. This is why I am currently rating the game a 1/10, in effect this means that imho the game 
 is to all intents and purposes 'broken'.
  
  If this issue with DRM didn't exist I would have given the game a 9/10. If 2kgames fix the problem 
 with DRM then I'll happily amend my review, until then I class the game as unfit for purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Yule
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  For me, this game live up to most of the hype. The voice acting is astonishing, the atmosphere 
 constantly has me looking around whenever I hear anything, and the plasmids have both a I've used 
 this fireball attack somewhere else feel, but at the same time delivers it uniquely (seriously, 
 finishing off a big daddy with a flaming teddy bear at however fast you throw things when you use 
 telekinesis is just plain funny) and the unique plasmids (death by bees anyone?) along with the 
 diverse range of gene tonics keeps the action fresh.
  
  The fact that enemies become much stronger as the game progresses without any reason is alright, 
 after all the game needs to get harder. But the fact that you gun upgrades don't keep up with those 
 increases in strength really make the gun less effective in the late game. It would have been nice 
 to see some more upgrade stations so the gun can keep up. By the end of the game, upgraded pistol 
 damage combined with a head shot won't kill like it did in the beginning. Also, the environment 
 is not as interactive as 2K claimed. sure, most things react the way you'd expect. lightning in 
 water adds a bit of damage, and freezing enemies lets you shatter them if done right. oil slicks 
 can ignite, and most anything can be grabbed with telekinesis and throw with considerable force. 
 But that same lightning shock isn't conducted by metal, and I can't freeze the ground to cause 
 my enemies to slip, or even stumble. Little details like this are just that, little, but they're 
 touches I would have liked to see. Overall though, this game delivers. spooky atmosphere (walking 
 into a room and having all the lights shut off, then hearing the sound of splicers coming closer 
 still freaks me out) , and the RPG elements keep the action fresh throughout the game. Even if your 
 not a big fan of FPS (i'm not personally) you can still fins elements of the game that are just 
 freaking amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wingchunstudent
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  the demo. Now that the final release is out I am completely amazed. The visuals are stunning. The 
 ambiance is amazing and the sound is a worderful mix or metal screeching, psychotic gibberish and 
 50's era music which come together in a culmination that is inspiring to say the least.
  
  The story is so immersive. I fell in love with it only after a few minutes of gameplay. There are 
 these neat little clips that show you all about the plasmid in a 50's style cartoon. And tape recorders 
 you find strewn about help fill in the gaps of the story when played.
  
  As far as FPS go, this one is pretty standard. You have your guns; pistol, shotgun and machinegun 
 as well as your trusty melee weapon, wrench. But the targeting is spot on and fighting multiple 
 enemies is fast and furious.
  
  The controls are tight. I can pop three splicers in the head before they get to me because they 
 are so fine tuned. You manage your guns with the right bumber and fire with the right trigger. 
 And the spells you get are managed with the left bumper and trigger respectively.
  
  Lots of places to explore, robots and machines to hack and little sisters to exploit.
  
  Bottom 
 line, play this game if you are either a fan of FPSs, Great Story Telling or just great visuals. 
 This game is a must play for 07.
  
  Will you be the Savior or Rapture, or it's Destroyer? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kit30000149
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  I am not fans for Scary story FPS, but this one is just right to me, a bit scary and also a lot 
 of fun. to enjo the game saem as I enjoy a moive, my heart just running up and down all the time. 
 So affraid to go into that door, but at the same time I know something behind that door Big Daddy 
 is waiting for me, I want to hunt him down. that is my feeling for this game. This game is special. 
 I think, you have to experience by yourself. Graphic is 8, I give it, if they can get it work with 
 AA X4 or higher.
  Story is 9, just like you are inside the moive
  Sound is 10. I am using 5.1, perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulsd2002
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  First I'll give you my system specs:
  Intel dual core 2 e6850 @3.6 ghz
  DDR2 800mhz 2gig
  Radeon 1900 XTX 685/790
  Dell Ultra Sharp 27 LCD monitor
  SB Audigy 2
  
  I first 30 minutes 
 I spent figuring out why the game wouldn't recognize my DVD after the install process. Only to 
 have to uninstall the DLA with Veritas that came along with my Sony DVD burner. I find it annoying 
 that companys find it necessary to dictate what software you can have on your system. Anyway...
 
  
  I spent the second hour tinkering with the video card setting and in game resolutions until I was 
 so what satisfied. I can run the game with max setting (albeit in direct 9 mode) at 1400x900 with 
 FPS ~40-50. I have a to say I couldn't get the AF of AA to force at all. So I tried the enable 
 adaptive AL which has only really worked well with COD2 and to my surprise it works beautifully 
 in this game. I do agree there needs to be away to adjust your FOV for widescreen. It just seems 
 too close up.
  
  I'm not going to rehash what all the other reviews say about the game play. What I will say is 
 the atmosphere and the voice acting is top notch. The game has a camping feel to it, but there 
 entire thing is very engrossing. Have I played better shooters... yes. Have I played better RPG... 
 yes. But lately as a PC gamer who doesn't have hours upon hours to waste playing online games this 
 is exactly what I wanted it to be. If you're looking for a creepy shooter with an interesting environment 
 and some truly disturbing voice acting this game is more than worth the price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkfire6247
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  This game loaded great on my pc. Although i did have to reenter my unlock code like 5 times, i 
 thought i was screwed. I just kept reentering, and it worked. As i played i noticed i was just 
 killing the same splicers over and over, and a big daddy every now and then. They had a good idea 
 going, but they didn't expand much on it, i want some challenge, i wanna be struck by a lighting 
 plasmid, or an enrage plasmid that forces me to go after a different splicer. In short i just want 
 splicers to have the Eve hype powers. There isn't much depth to the game in my opinion, but i still 
 admit it is a fun game to play through and i don't regret my purchase. It is finally another good 
 pc game release since hl: episode 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kakashi-X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is here and I am speechless.
  
  In recent years I havent played a game that really make me go Wow, this game is truly amazing . 
 Bioshock is one of those games that makes you proud to be a gamer and pity those who arent. Now 
 on to the review...
  
  The game takes place in 1960 where you, a person named Jack (for those of you who didnt know, it 
 says so on the present in the opening sequence) who crash lands in the Mid Atlantic and is forced 
 to find refuge in a mysterious building. You enter and find out its the entrance to the underwater 
 utopia called Rapture which is a city where the artist nor scientist will be bound by the laws 
 and morality of governments and organized religion. Rapture is full of unique Environments in this 
 beautiful Art Deco style. Its a mixture of Beauty and Brutality, every corner is unique with a 
 dash of creepy horror, and a spice of creepy ambience.
  
  Of course things go wrong because of power, greed, obsession, and the fact that this idea is impossible 
 due to human nature. Eventually scientists messed around with the peoples DNA with Plasmids and 
 Gene Tonics which resulted in people going mad. There is also the substance known as Ada
  
  So you enter Rapture via a submarine like transport and you eventually meet Atlas, which is one 
 of the main characters in the game. He helps you get on your feet and tells you how to survive 
 in Rapture. You then embark on a goal to find out the secret behind Rapture, save Atlas' family 
 ( :P ) , and go after Andrew Ryan.
  
  The way the story progresses is through the Radio Transmissions you will recieve from Atlas, Andrew 
 Ryan, Dr. Tenumbaum, and some of the crazy inhabitants of Rapture. You will also find tons of Diary 
 Recordings that I highly suggest you listening to since they reveal a lot of the backstory and 
 whats going on in the game.
  
  In Bioshock there are tons of things to do, there is a lot of exploring that you are highly encouraged 
 to do in this game that will benefit you. You will be hacking safes, turrets, cameras, bots, vending 
 machines, etc, collect Gene Tonics that will enhance you in combat in a variety of ways. Find Plasmids 
 to use against you enemies, find guns, construct different ammo types for each weapon, research 
 enemies to gain advantages over them such as Damage Bonuses via Weaknesses, like I said, TONS of 
 things to do. Nothing is scripted unless it has to do with the storyline and such, but all this 
 is implemented seamlessly within it.
  
  One of the main features of Bioshock is the Little Sisters and Big Daddies. This is where you have 
 to thing about morality and such. In the game when you first encouter the little sister Atlas tells 
 you that they arent children anymore and that they are evil monsters that you should kill. Doing 
 so would give you lots of ADAM which you use to aquire upgrades to Gene Tonics, Plasmids, Health 
 and EVE upgrades, etc. But also there is the conflicting character to Dr. Tenumbaum which tells 
 you that they are children and that you should save them, and if you do so, she will make it worthwhile 
 for you in someway. Atlas then tells you that you shouldnt believe her because shes the reason 
 the Little Sisters are like that in the first place. So you must choose to either Save or Harvest 
 the Little Sisters. Each descision has its benefits for the end game.
  
  But dont forget, in order to get to the Little Sisters you must get through the Big Daddies first. 
 They are ultimately the toughest enemies in the game. Big Daddies inflict major damage and take 
 equally just as much so be careful. If you dont bother them, they wont bother you. But you eventually 
 NEED to in order to get ADAM. They wander around the city of rapture which means you are able to 
 set of traps and such, so each fight will be different every time.
  
  There are a couple of boss fights in the game and each one is unique and tells a bit of the story 
 of Rapture through their perspective, each one is crazy and fun to encounter. There are a variety 
 of different Splicers (the enemies in the game) in which you will fight. Each one unique in weaponry 
 and look. Some are pipe, or wrench wielding baddies, Sickle wielding wall crawlers, explosive and 
 suicidal madmen. In later parts they do will be using Gene Tonics and Plasmids against you. Each 
 fight (as with the Big Daddies) isnt scripted so each one will be different.
  
  Bioshock is running on the Unreal 3 Engine and looks beautiful. The city of rapture couldnt have 
 looked better on any other Engine. The water effects, object models, textures, level design, etc, 
 is just stunning. The audio is great too, brilliant voice acting, no character is bland or boring, 
 the Splicers sound nice and crazy as you would expect. It also runs well on DX9 based computers 
 and older setups, so dont worry if you havent upgraded to DX10 like I have.
  
  The only problems it has is with the PC Version, if youre playing it on your PC your going to encounter 
 a few nasty bugs in the release Version. For some reason you cant play it without being in Windowed 
 Mode and sometimes the Audio will just cut out for a second or two. But hopefully they will release 
 a hot fix soon to solve those problems.
  
  Words dont do this game justice, in order to fully enjoy what it has to offer, you MUST get this 
 game. Its one of those games that you will remember forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piquet2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  Despite the few glitches and the low difficulty, I think this game's nearing perfection. If a patch 
 could take care of the glitches and make combat a bit harder, this game would be a perfect 10 in 
 my opinion.
  
  I really love the atmosphere in this game. It's a strange mix of fantasy, horror and drama, that's 
 hard to explain, but just works amazingly well. If you won't buy the game, at least do yourself 
 the favour of downloading the demo - it's well worth the wait if your computer can handle it.
 
  
  My only problem with BioShock is that it sometimes scares the hell out of me. The way shadows and 
 light are used is awesome.
  
  Amazing is the word for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jliebel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  BioShock is just an amazing game... So to start lets get a little setting in.
  
  You are in a failing under water Utopia, Rapture, in the Atlantic in the 1960s. The City has gone 
 mad, war and strife has struck the city which was founded and is being thrown into turmoil by Ryan. 
 You find your way into Rapture after your plane crashes and you some how survive, how I don't know 
 it doesn't tell us all that much detail. You swim to a light house and are led into a world of 
 great mystery and disorder.
  
  From the very beginning of the game you are drawn in. From the music, atmosphere and the graphics 
 it all lends itself into making you feel as if you are in a 1960s under water utopia. The game 
 does a great job with giving you little sound and video clips of what circa 1960s commercials whether 
 it be radio or tv would look like. You are lead around for a bit by a man named Atlas who at first 
 just seems to be an innocent man trying to help you, which leads you into an epic adventure.
  
  On your way around rapture you will fight many different things from Splicers, to Big Daddies 
 and robots. The great thing about this game is that any thing and everything can be used as a weapon, 
 saying you just killed a big daddy you can light its corpse on fire and fling it at an enemy, and 
 then pick up that corpse and fling it at another enemy. Security systems can be hacked and changed 
 to help you. You are given a wide range of weapons and special powers or magic called plasmids 
 you earn these throw Adam which you gather off of little sisters who are guarded by the big daddy.
 
  
  The game does a great job in a leveling system for an RPG it allows you gain abilities while playing 
 by spending Adam as an upgrade system, it even has a market for you to buy ammo and the such.
 
  
  All in all the game is a great game, for me this has been the best game I've played in a LONG time. 
 I suggest anyone who likes a great story line and a great fps to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Av177
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock among one of the best single player FPS's I've played. The graphics are smooth, detailed 
 and visually pleasing. The lighting is perfect - dank and dark, yet vibrant and bright when it 
 needs to be, it fits perfectly. The sound on this game is perfect, everything is making noise, 
 the maniacal splicers can be heard talking to them selfs, the big daddy's moan is intimidating. 
 The atmospheric ambiance really sucks you in. All the weapons pack a punch in their own way, and 
 the plasmids allow you to approach a situation however you like - Should you throw an explosive 
 canister at this baddie? Hack a bot to fight for you? Freeze him then beat him with a wrench? Set 
 him on fire? Electrocute the water hes standing in? Endless possibilities, it creates replay value 
 in itself.
  
  What I was most impressed with though, was the the level design. Unlike most comparable FPS's none 
 of the architecture here feels reused. The whole story feels like a new experience, every step 
 of the way. Early on, new baddies are introduced gradually and slowly, and your allowed to familiarize 
 yourself with them and their tactics. Later on they become consistent. I have only a few beefs 
 with this game. I feel the hacking was done too often, it seems I've got to hack something around 
 every corner. It was on the shorter side, though still healthy.
  
  Forget all the naysayers who say it sucks because "its not system shock 2". Overall, I'd say just 
 about anyone could enjoy this game. Pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bighaben
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  When I cracked open this game and watched the first video I wasn't very impressed, especially when 
 the audio kicked out and was forced to play the beginning of the game without it. Thank god XP 
 Compatibility did the thing because the game works now! Though I had a weird graphics issue the 
 first hour I played, the next day, after restarting everything seemed to be working fine. The story 
 is fantastic, and the graphics look amazing, but what really makes the graphics good is now that 
 they are great, but it's how they are used. It gives the whole game a perfect atmosphere of something 
 successful going terribly wrong.
  
  Not only does the game do a great job of creating a unique world, it even coincides with political 
 movements and issues of the time, which makes the world hit home a little more then you'd expect. 
 Not to mention the moral issues that make the game emotionally attaching. While the gameplay is 
 nothing new, everything else thrown together just makes this a must play. It's easily the best 
 FPS out in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassimpson09
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10 Some of the best to date, especially with DirectX10. Water looks amazing. At the start 
 of the game, I didn't even realize the cut scene had ended and I was supposed to keep playing.
 
  
  Gameplay: 8. Overall it is good. Some minor issues with weapon switching and plasmid switching. 
 Sound: 9 Great . Music just feels like it is right for the game, although it is not what you would 
 expect. Sound effects are also great I had no problems getting my sound to work on pc like others 
 have been saying. Some of it started getting a little repetitive towards the end of the game.
 
  
  Replay value: 8. Only reason why this gets a high score is because there are so many different 
 ways you can play the game. I already know how I am going to play it differently and how a different 
 outcome will result from it. (Won't go into details for storyline purposes) Difficulty: Easy. I 
 played the game on medium and although I died quite a bit, mainly from Big Daddys, you never actually 
 die, just respawn. This keeps the action going, but makes the game feel much easier.
  
  Overall: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arrowsun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I love the atmosphere in this game. It really does a great job of giving you the spooky 1940s horror 
 movie feel. Overall the story is well worth the time working through. I have not finished yet, 
 but about 3/4 of the way through I am gonna replay it. I am having some issues with targeting the 
 bad guys and robot guns, but otherwise the controls are great. The music is great. The voice acting 
 is great. The graphics are stellar, and you really get the feeling that you are underwater at all 
 times. I never have the feeling of being on land, but more like in a sub running around. I think 
 this is the start of a watery friendship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whadzen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Finally a unique shooter that lives up to the hype. Basically, the game looks beautiful, graphics 
 are amazing. The music score and the atmosphere sucks you in the game and keeps you tense and scared. 
 The hacking system is very original and breaks the pace for a little thinking game. The story is 
 awesome and you are thrown into the storyline with the decisions you make. All in all an amazing 
 experience that should not be missed. So far I have not experienced any technical issues and the 
 game runs surprisingly well on med-high settings 1024x768 res P4 3ghz HT, 7800GS overclocked, 2Gigs 
 DDR400 RAM, sound card. As you can see, an aging rig, so I am very surprised how smooth it runs, 
 even on intense battles I am getting 30fps up to 40 fps and that is just great for me. So let's 
 go to Rapture and go nuts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhilFree000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  let me start off by saying ive been waiting for this game since i first heard about it. with that 
 aside, well there isnt much to say. The game is very realistic (even with dumbed down grafx) , my 
 pc is pretty high end xcept for the GPU (geforce7600gt) and my ram (1gig) , which i believe if i 
 got another gig of ram in me id run it fine on high settings, but with medium settin it ran pretty 
 well, and the grafx are amazing, the game is sooo immersive, and its quite scary, im a grown man 
 and i dont scare easy, but this game startled me on several occasions, the story is great, the 
 sound is awesome, the controls are easy to learn and explained in the game, they are also customizable. 
 i havent got that far in the game so i can tell too much but with what ive seen so far,.... im 
 ..... im.... (gettting choked up) ....... im very pleased witht this purchase, the only thing that 
 its missing is some multiplayer action, dont know how they could have done it but it would have 
 been cool. anywho ... why are you still reading this GO GET IT... NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom3165
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  It has an awesome story that completely sucks you in and will piss off your loved ones for 2 or 
 3 days. The graphics and audio are top notch and unique. The unreal 3 engine truly shines here 
 and the atmosphere and water effects are something to witness on a good rig. the AI is better than 
 average and the various conversations you hear them shouting at each other is a reason to play 
 it again. These people are really wacked out and off the chain. The way the game makes you make 
 moral decisions is compelling and rewarding. The end is a real shocker and worthy of the effort. 
 Need I say more. Now for the bad. The hints and arrow system should be optional. I understand that 
 they are appealing to the casual gamer and that's great but I don't need to be lead around and 
 in fact, I scouted pretty much everywhere and highly suggest it if you want the full effect. The 
 sound was awesome but sometimes I couldn't hear the dialog from the tape recorders and my voice 
 sound option was maxed out. Thats it for the technical complaints the real problem I had was this, 
 It's System Shock 2 all over again with a new look and a lot of new technology behind it. If it 
 wasn't irrational games that created it I would swear someone ripped them off. I mean plagiarized 
 completely as far as the mechanics and design. I understand why they did this it was an awesome 
 game and created a long time ago with limited tech but come on... I know this is a minor point but 
 I paid for this game because of SS2 and I felt like I was playing it again albeit much improved 
 and with more finesse but essentially the same game under water instead of outer space. All in 
 all bravo!!! I take my hat of to you for a wonderful visceral couple of days. I will recommend 
 to my friends and I am sure I will play it again.
  p. s. next game please mix it up a little... wink wink 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSS383
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  BioShock is a breath of fresh air as far as PC gaming goes. It breaks away from all those PC games 
 that have been released in recent years that have tried to push the limits but really never lived 
 up to the task. Even the greatest games of the last few years never felt like they broke into new 
 gaming territory. The only game that could have possibly blown away the PC gaming world in recent 
 history, STALKER: Shadow of Chernobyl , turned into a digital dump and left many PC gamers with 
 a feeling that the awesomeness of the breakthrough classics such as System Shock 2 and Deus Ex 
 would never be repeated. This happiness now comes in the form of BioShock, WOOT !
  
  
  Gameplay: BioShocks gameplay is nice mix of new and old gaming elements, it combines elements of 
 FPs, RPGs and Adventure games. First person shooter elements include a standard set of weapons 
 and explosives which dont break or contain any handicaps that would'nt stop you from doing some 
 FPS run and gun through most areas. These weapons can be upgraded and can make use of different 
 types of ammo, which is more of an RPG element. RPG elements include a wide variety of basic character 
 customizations that include all sorts of active, passive, defensive and offensive special abilities 
 such as a defensive shock field or the ability to freeze your enemies. There is also a great storyline 
 that pulls you into the game and keeps to interested in what the heck the underwater city is all 
 about and explains why things are the way they are down there. One last thing, Big Daddies are 
 cool and scary, have fun fighting them and then deciding to kill or release the little sisters 
 they are guarding.
  
  
  Graphics: The evironmental and character graphics for BioShock are excellent and are definitely 
 the highest quality for the PC at the moment. Whats great about the game too, is that it is well 
 optimized and can still look good and run well on many different systems, although you must have 
 a pretty nice rig to run the game at its highest possible quality. With full Direct-X 10 support, 
 this game will be cited for visual quality for quite a while. If you had to break graphics down 
 from best to worst in the game, character models and skinning would probably be at the bottom, 
 although they look very good; 3D architecture and textures would be in the middle with water quality 
 at the top. It will be interesting to see how BioShock's graphics will measure up to Crysis in 
 the near future.
  
  Sound: Sounds in BioShock are just as great as it's graphics if not better. Environmental sounds 
 are top notch and really sound crisp and realistic. Creatures in the game make all sorts of noises 
 and conversation that can be heard from quite a distance. Its so strange hearing one of the freakish 
 citizens mumbling and crying about the way they look then walking close to them only to see them 
 get into a fight with another citizen, yelling and fighting. Weapon sounds are generally sharp, 
 loud and heavy, but some of them could use a tny bit of improvement. BioShock's music sounds great 
 and is very authentic sounding, however, a few people might be put off by the early 1900s music 
 itself, but not its quality.
  
  Cons: I must talk about the reasons why I dont give the game a 10, its definately an awesome PC 
 game with nothing else close to it at the moment but it does have some flaws. One of the most noticeable 
 negatives to the game, is it's lack of enemy variety. There are only a few enemy models that pretty 
 much just have different names and weapons to add variety. Some of these are tougher than others 
 but nothing too unique. Another thing on enemies, it would be nice to have seen new unique varieties 
 of enemies as you progressed through the game. You do see new stronger enemies with new weapons 
 and abilties, but they are still the same models you have seen since the beggining of the game. 
 Gameplay does suffer a bit from the lack of consequences for dying. If you die you simply respawn 
 at a Vita Chamber with reduced health. In my opinion this feature, seemingly designed to make the 
 game attractive to more casual players, is the game's worst flaw. It removes some of the immersion 
 of the game and makes you feel there is no real challenge in game progression. ALTHOUGH on the 
 flip-side of things, it does keep you from reloading all the time in a potentially very difficult 
 world, which would also remove you from the game and annoy you, so its an OK balance I suppose.
 
  
  
  Overall: BioShock is awesome, if you have a midrange graphics card and CPU and consider yourself 
 a PC gamer, you must buy this, as BioShock will probably be considered a classic one day. I suggest 
 the PC version if you have a midrange system or higher and plan to upgrade sometime in the near 
 future. This version will only look better and better as your computer gets more powerful and the 
 game itself handles better on the PC due to the more flexible control scheme with keyboard and 
 mouse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbock727
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are top notch as well as the gameplay. This makes it seem like it would be a great 
 game, but its deceiving. About 2 hours into the game you will realize that the game has no story. 
 The story is subpar. It has its predicable plot twist and then a terrible ending. The final boss 
 is laughable and the ending will having you feel like you wasted 24 hours of your life. After your 
 10th hour in the game you will realize that instead of playing a game where the man object is to 
 kill things, the main object is to conserve ammo. While there is a nice system in place to purchase 
 ammo you cannot find around the various maps, its just never enough. This aspect of game becomes 
 rather annoying when there are beautiful gorey effects that are just asking you to waste some ammo 
 from time to time. Travelers will find that they will be fighting with nothing more than a wrench 
 at certain points in the game. Again, the game starts off brilliantly but ends up being quite disappointing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parthdiscreet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Now, I'm playing this on my Macbook Pro, with all the settings maxed out, and with the resolution 
 set at medium on my GeForce 8600M GT.... and this game looks and plays stunning. I don't have the 
 full game, so this review is based on the demo. First, this game has some major originality to 
 back it up. Never before have I seen in a FPS (if this can even be called that remotely) the ability 
 to do so much customizations, modifications. The fun of shooting is actually brought back in this 
 game, and it does so with excellence. The graphics, which I'm pretty certain is powered by the 
 Unreal Engine 3, is nothing short of mind-boggeling. The engine is excellently optimized, and you 
 would not even know that this is a port from the 360. The water effects are insane, and the shader 
 effects are out of this world. Definately all the hype about the Unreal Engine 3 is true.... and 
 is shown in this game alone. The AI (if I could call it that) , are smart, but not smarter than 
 the ones in say F. E. A. R (which arguably has one of the smartest AI ever in a game) . You can use 
 your plasmids to set them on fire, and they will try to find the nearest watered area, and jump 
 into that to extinguish themselves. This is where the gameplay truly becomes excellent, in that 
 you can then use your electric plasmid to send a jolt of electricty onto the water... therby electrifying 
 them. The combos are literally countless, as I have heard that in the full retail game, there are 
 more than 60 different plasmids you can use throughout the game.
  
  The sound is also excellently done and captures that sense of twistedness extremely well. What 
 is more chilling is the comments that they AI speak, some of them are just spine chilling. This 
 in turn makes the game very eerie, twisted in a good way, and actually enhances the gameplay even 
 further.
  
  You don't know who your character in the game is, or his background, other than the fact that he 
 was on a flight, which crashed into an ocean (or sea?) and he escaped, came across this little 
 underground island passageway... in the middle of nowhere in the water. My previous favourite game 
 was Half Life 2... and Bioshock currently took over. I hope Crysis will take this one over... but 
 time will tell I guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c0de_red999
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Pros- you can save anyware and by anyware i mean anyware,
  there is a HUGE replay ability,
  suports DX10,
  it suports widescreen,
  Attention to detal (what i mean by that is every little 
 thing has some interaction like even the big dadys have names!!!!) ,
  very very very good storyline,
  evrey gun and plasmid is upgradable,
  and it is the best game 
 on vista so get it if u have vista and u are a gamer.
  
  
  Cons- none i havent had any problams with it exsept it dosent suport anti-anilising or artisopic 
 filtering but that isint really a problum for me because this game is amazing!!!!
  
  Other thoughts- get this at a store like best but walmat ext. not via steam because i have been 
 reading that people are having problums with it so if you do than u can just return your copy for 
 a new one and also i was the first person to buy it at my local best buy and trust me they wont 
 be out of stock. (there was like 40 copys!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tkemory
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Bioshock has been a pleasant surprise for me this year in a lot of ways. I didnt jump on the hype 
 train until I played the demo on the 360. This left a quandary for me because I prefer FPS on the 
 PC, but it played extremely well on the 360, probably the best looking game to date on the platform. 
 Ultimately I went with the PC version (less competition for the television) .
  
  The PC version looks almost identical to running the demo on my 360 (I have a 1080P HDTV) , with 
 some minor differences with lighting etc. The PC gives you greater control over various things. 
 If you have a DX10 card you will get additional upgrade options (I am not) . I had some trouble 
 getting the EAX sound turned on, even though I am running the X-Fi Fatal1ty Extreme Gamer. Graphics 
 are great, some of the best water, smoke, fire, ice, electricity effects I have ever seen. The 
 subtle effects of the game are excellent. For example if there is a water stream falling from the 
 ceiling and you decide to walk through it, your vision will be temporarily blurred. I am not a 
 huge fan of the textures on the characters (like the splicers) , but the overall style of the game 
 makes it work.
  
  AI is impressive, even at the lowest setting the Splicer will stalk you and the Big Daddies are 
 relentless. I also really like the way the security system is implemented. The security cameras, 
 security bots, and various gun placements can be hacked and turned on the enemy, its great watching 
 the AI fight itself.
  
  Game play is very interesting and innovative. I really like the Plasmid idea and the whole idea 
 of ADAM and EVE. It allows you to enhance yourself based on how you like to play the game, and 
 also gives the game a lot of replay. Essentially you get to genetically enhance yourself in various 
 ways, for example you can add tonics to help your hacking skills, fighting skills, and healing 
 interaction. This is in addition to the plasmids which up your offensive capabilities.
  
  Death system doesnt bother me as it appears to bother others. It allows me to play without having 
 to save all the time, and have fun instead of losing 30 minutes of advancement because I forgot 
 to save. IMO, this would have been better maybe as a user option to use the built-in system, so 
 those that like wasting time can.
  
  I love the weapon system in this game, it allows for not just various weapons, but various forms 
 of ammo for each weapon (you can even craft ammo) . So far I have found 8 different weapons and 
 each one is extremely interesting. Dwindling ammo supplies keeps me steadily switching.
  The story behind Bioshock is excellent, I love the story and the characters it is all very well 
 done. It draws you in and makes you want to not put the game down.
  
  Drawbacks of Bioshock include some configuration for the PC. I mentioned earlier having trouble 
 with my sound card. I have also seen the game freeze once or twice in the middle of an animation. 
 Its distracting but not enough to take away from the game.
  
  My biggest beef with Bioshock is the lack of support for AA, this game could use it. I am able 
 to play at 1920x1200 so the jaggies aren't horrible, but they are noticeable.
  
  Bioshock is going down as one of my all time favorite games, I have enjoyed every minute of this 
 game and cant wait to finish it and play it again. I am glad there is no replay, it allowed the 
 developers to present a well thought out, innovative game, instead of wasting time on half-baked 
 net code.
  
  The only reason I can't give it a 10 is because of the minor technical glitches, had it been perfect 
 out of the box it would have warranted a 10 without a doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firehammster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game was not even on my radar until about a month ago. I read all the hype about 
 it and thought I'd give a shot... haha. The Good: -Graphics. This game is visually stunning. The 
 original back-drop of 1940's Americana is beautiful. The architecture, the water, the machinery, 
 and the music lend itself to the feeling of post WWII America. -Excellent sound work. Whenever 
 you hear a recording in the game, it sounds as if it's being played back on an old phonograph, 
 through a tube, down the hall. Great voice acting also, the different accents make it interesting. 
 weapon sounds are realistic.
  -Weapon management makes for a good challenge. You really have to match the weapon type to the 
 baddy you are fighting. The Plasmids are an interesting concept. They act like spells would in 
 a fantasy RPG. What makes them interesting is the idea that you must modify your body to use them. 
 The whole idea of genetic modification in this game brings up some deep things to think about as 
 we turn the corner in gene therapy and stem cell research here in the real world.
  -Atmosphere. The ocean is everywhere. Trying to come in, trying to take back the space that was 
 stolen from it. The constant drips, puddles, and leaks give a feeling of impending doom. It's actually 
 nice to just stop and look out a window at the fishies, while you catch your breath. The feeling 
 that this place used to be someones home is also present. You find little recordings all over the 
 place that make the environment feel lived in, therefore adding to the eerie factor, because there 
 are bodies everywhere.
  -Little sisters. I have two little girls, so the idea of harvesting the little sisters never entered 
 my mind. The voices and the graphics really had an emotional tug on me the first time I saved one. 
 The moral choice play is a good addition to any great game.
  
  The Bad:
  -No real repercussions for dying. This is kind of a half-bad deal here. For one, nobody likes to 
 go all the way back to the beginning. Secondly, if you dye, the bad guy is still there, and more 
 bad guys usually show up. Not to mention all of the resources you used up to that point in the 
 fight. Word to the wise: SAVE ALL THE TIME!! It took me an hour to kill one of those big protectors 
 last night. I kept having to go back and lure him to a missile launcher I had hacked and try to 
 keep his attention while we both hit him. Conclusion: If all of the reviews have not convinced 
 you to drop what you are doing and try to find a copy at your local game shop, then you are not 
 a fan of this genre. I highly recommend this game. It's the best shooter since the resurrection 
 of Half-Life.
  Still not convinced? Try the demo... if you can get it to work, lol.
  
  -Hammster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pitts
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Back in the early days of PC gaming, what some might now call the 'golden era', there was a fantastic 
 game that got little fanfare, while thousands of Doom clones (and Doom itself) somehow captivated 
 the gaming world. That game was System Shock. Revolutionary for it's time, not only was it a quasi-RPG 
 with an amazing story and had the most memorable villain of all time, but above all, its atmosphere 
 was incredible. The fantastic System Shock II continued the tradition of atmospheric FPS/RPG even 
 better. With that said it is no surprise that the folks that brought us these gems now bring us 
 Bioshock, the spiritual-successor to the worlds of System Shock.
  
  Bioshock continues the tradition of hybrid RPG/FPS gameplay that has defined these series for so 
 long. The player assumes the role of Jack, a passenger on a doomed flight in the year 1960 that 
 crashes near the surface entrance to Rapture, a self-contained undersea city built during the Second 
 World War. Rapture was built by Andrew Ryan, a man obsessed with creating a utopian (or dystopian, 
 depending on your outlook) undersea society free of the 'ethical' constraints modern society was 
 placing on science and culture; through religion, politics, or economics. As you enter Rapture, 
 you learn that something has gone very, very wrong.
  
  Graphically, this world is nothing short of stunning, Bioshock is an amazing world to behold. Lighting 
 effects, shadows, and especially water are rendered nearly flawlessly, and by all accounts it is 
 even more impressive on DirectX 10 hardware. Besides something pretty to look at, the graphics 
 allow the player to suspend their disbelief, and be fully transported into the world. Simultaneously, 
 audio is another important element and much like the graphics, are executed beautifully here. The 
 eerie footsteps of your enemies, the tinny sounds of ancient speakers advertising products, the 
 brilliant voice acting, all these add to the great aural experience. The game can be downright 
 scary at times.
  
  The gameplay is also a triumph. The character system is amazing, allowing a simple interface to 
 allow for nearly endless possibilities. The 'plasmid' system allows you to build your player how 
 you like and approach the game in many different ways. You may specialize in straight out combat, 
 with traditional FPS weapons, pistols, machine guns, shotguns, etc. Or, you can specialize more 
 in the 'psychic' powers the plasmids allow you, burning, freezing, or shocking your enemies. You 
 can even use the environment itself as a weapon, hacking the security robots and turrets in Rapture 
 can allow you to turn them against your enemies. Or using telekinesis, you can utilize the various 
 detritus to attack your enemies. In all there are over 70 different plasmids, which allows for 
 a lot of replay value.
  
  For all its brilliance, there are a few problems with Bioshock. First, not a criticism per se, 
 but a warning, you need a powerhouse PC to run Bioshock well. My machine is well above the requirements 
 in all categories, and I still see slowdowns from time to time, and very long load times. Be warned. 
 Second, there isn't a lot of enemy variety. A few notable exceptions aside, the so-called 'Splicers' 
 (genetically-mutated humans) are the primary enemy. While in the context of the story this makes 
 perfect sense, they do get a little tiresome. Third, some of the interface does seem a little console-like, 
 and hence ugly on the PC, nothing like the travesty that was Oblivion, but giving mute-testimony 
 that this was a console-developed game. Lastly, a lot has been made of the 'no death-penalty' criticism. 
 It is true that dying in Bioshock really costs you nothing but time, as you are re-spawned into 
 the closest vita-chamber. This might make the game a little too easy for some. However, since everyone 
 I know that plays these games quick-saves every 30 seconds anyway, it confuses me that this is 
 drawing so much ire. I imagine this and many of the other problems will be addressed via patches 
 or even 3rd party modifications with time, yet another reason why the PC is still the platform 
 of choice for gaming.
  
  For all its little blemishes, and above all else, this game is the single most atmospheric world 
 I have ever seen in a game. The graphics, fantastic plot, sound effects, music, and a million little 
 touches add to the immersion enormously. Much like the film Blade Runner, heralded for its incredible 
 vision of the future, Bioshock is a masterpiece for convincingly creating another world. This game 
 is nothing short of a triumph, and is worthy of enormous praise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_Fate_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  [Hi and thanks for reading my review but before you go on reading the paragraph below please note 
 that I played the PC version. Im not going into any detail about the game's system requirements 
 and such. This review is aimed towards the people that already have an capable PC or 360 since 
 the only difference is probably the UI (User interface) . Let me simply say that the game is well 
 optimized if your computer is at or exceeds the recommended requirements. Hopefully you will enjoy 
 my review as much as I had fun writing about it]
  
  Immerse yourself in the city of Rapture, an underwater city that was built by the game's antagonist 
 Andrew Ryan which the city's populants viewed him as a brilliant mind. Emotionally compelling, 
 immersive, mind exhausting and mystery are the elements of what makes Bioshock so stunning. Throw 
 the old Well this is a simple videogame, it doesnt emotionally effect me saying out the window 
 because Bioshock is as every bit as compelling as a book or an movie. The game starts with you 
 in a mess, a plane crashes in the middle of the Atlantic and right from there you instantly know 
 whats going on. You need to survive, a lighthouse figure is near and you swim into the building 
 then the doors shut. Enter the bathosphere and Ryan's prerecorded film introduces you into the 
 world of Rapture. Once the bathosphere reaches the surface youll instantly know right from this 
 moment that something in Rapture has gone horribly wrong. This is within 2 minutes into the game 
 and your already presented with a mystery where you would probably ask yourself (Really, yourself 
 not your ingame character) questions. From there the game begins to slowly unravel itself and there 
 are plenty of plot twists and ultimately an satisfying payoff. Bioshock essentially plays like 
 your average first person shooter but with plasmids which is basically a gene modifier that allows 
 you to shoot lightning, burn your foes and basically anything that is similar to magic. Your able 
 to indirecly use the plasmids to effect your environment such as using electrobolt on water to 
 shock foes killing them instantanously. Bioshock differentiate's itself with it's strong use of 
 plasmids over convential weapons and right when you recieve your first plasmid the electrobolt 
 you will instantly realize the game will always encourage the use of plamids. Theres also tonics 
 which are passive abilities such as when your struck then your character releases a strong electricity 
 around him or tonics that help you help you hack faster the variety is practically endless. The 
 game's customizable character system, you can really experiment and create a character that caters 
 specifically to you which is really awesome. Also worth noting is that your convential weapons 
 are able to use different types of bullets and you can upgrade your conventional weapons also to 
 make them more powerful. You can also sneak past several of your enemies if you please however 
 dont mistake this as a Splinter Cell game or something. Speaking of enemies..
  
  Bioshock is filled with what appears to be genetically mutated freaks called splicers. The game 
 has several varities of splicers such as some that can climb ceilings, some will seemingly teleport 
 and others that will simply try to beat the living heck out of you with a variety of melee weapons. 
 Splicers ARENT zombies, they have a mind and several engage in interesting conversations with other 
 splicers. They seem human but at the same time they really arent. The artificial intelligence isnt 
 particulary strong, they will sometimes directly chase after you or sometimes branch off waiting 
 to attack you and many repeat the same actions. If you incinerate a splicer near a pool of water, 
 they will always run toward the puddle of water waiting for you to shock them with an electrobolt 
 but what makes this situation weird is that other splicers who seemingly watches their comrades 
 run into the pool of water and then being shocked will do the same exact action. No big deal really 
 but a minor problem that pulls you away from what would otherwise be believable. Now the only way 
 to increase your character's abilties in Bioshock is to obtain ADAM and the only way to obtain 
 ADAM is to get it from a little sister and the only way to extract the ADAM from the little sister 
 is to defeat Big Daddies which come in several varities. Big Daddies are no push overs, they soak 
 up tons of damage and can take you down easily but they are by no means invincible. After killing 
 the Big Daddy, you will engage in what is perhaps one of the most engaging moral choices in video 
 game history.
  
  Bioshock is not without it's flaws. There is no difficulty because of the lack of any death penalty 
 which is both a praisable feature but flawed at the same time. It keeps the action moving but in 
 exchange there really isnt any difficulty in Bioshock what so ever. When you die, youll spawn right 
 back in a Vita-Chamber which reincarnates you and every enemy you dealt with will not heal or regenerate 
 which means that you can try over and over again and no matter how faulty your play style is, you 
 will definitely complete Bioshock with ease. Despite several minor flaws, Bioshock is really a 
 game that you as an gamer owe yourself to play. It's really that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartmanshead
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  I wanted to love the game, but I dont. Its beautiful and tense and has such a wonderful atmosphere. 
 The world is amazingly original. But the vita-chambers and the repetitive Splicers just make it 
 too darn tedious and too darn easy . There is no real threat to your character to match the foreboding 
 of the environment. Sure, the weapons and plasmids are great. But what is the real consequence 
 of how you approach a battle if you can just re-materialize every time youre overwhelmed? Itd 
 be like playing Pac-Man with endless lives  what the hell would the point in that be? I don't 
 fear for my character's safety because there is no actual final death. So, if there is no fear 
 of death, there is really no reason to fear the environment. They could throw a thousand splicers, 
 a thousand big daddies - it wouldn't matter. It would simply increase the number of lives you lose 
 and the time it would take to defeat them all. Also, the Splicers should have a variety of plasmids 
 at THEIR disposal, shouldnt they? Where are their powers? They're running around like junkies 
 needing a fix. There are hyponeedles in their pockets and all over the floor. They're not injecting 
 themselves for some lightning and fire fingertips to kill you? Why not? Theyre the ones who built 
 Rapture, after all. And some obligatory genetic mutation-monsters might have been nice, if for 
 no other reason than something different then a Splicer. BS is a fun game and stunning to look 
 at. And I love the guys for making it as System Shock 2 is one of the greatest game I've ever played. 
 But it doesnt live up to the hype or its own storyline and potential. I'd have given it an 8.5 
 or something if I hadn't been so eager for Bioshock to blow me away. It doesn't.
  
  (Maybe a patch will come out that removes Vita-Chambers entirely. :) If that were to happen the 
 gameplay would prove immesurably better) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SentientGames
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  From the moment I sat down to play BioShock, I knew I was in for a treat. The opening sequence 
 of the game, while simple and to the point, really draws you into the story and setting, making 
 you feel like you're really there. I was so intrigued by the first ten minutes that I replayed 
 the opening three times, just because experience was so exciting and fun.
  
  Visually, the game has amazing graphics. I've never seen water look and act so real. Water itself 
 plays a really important role in the game, so I'm glad they developers took their time and did 
 it right. Textures are clean, effects are bright and lively, and the 60's art deco spin they put 
 on everything is, simply put, awesome!
  
  Sound is spot on. Many games have been ruined by bad voice acting talent, but BioShock has thankfully 
 avoids that pitfall. The voice acting is great! The music in the game is astonishing. I now wish 
 I pre-ordered the collector's edition, just so I could get my hands on the soundtrack. Sound effects 
 are clean and do a great job of immersing you into the surroundings. My only complaint, perhaps, 
 is that one of the weapons should sound a bit louder and more powerful. The atmosphere of the game 
 is, by and far, it's strongest point. The story is presented so well that I found I couldn't stop 
 playing the game. Rapture is definitely a place like none-other, and the amount of imagination 
 that went into the setting is astounding. Character animation and interaction is top-notch. Your 
 enemies truly feel like they're alive and thinking. The creatures that roam the city have strong 
 personalities and are presented perfectly, effectively providing maximum emotional engagement.
 
  
  Game play is very fun, though I have to agree with a lot of other reviews in that the respawn system 
 makes the game kind of easy, and doesn't really fit with the story. Basically, if you die, you 
 just come right back to life with no penalty. So, here you have character thrust into a harrowing 
 situation where he must struggle to survive in a dangerous place, but he, essentially, is immortal 
 for the duration of the struggle. Then again, just because a developer put something in a game, 
 doesn't mean you're obligated to use it. One really cool thing that I've never seen before is the 
 fact that BioShock for the PC supports using an X-Box 360 controller. I haven't actually tried 
 this yet, but it seems like a good idea. This makes it easy for people who are used to playing 
 shooters on a console.
  
  From a presentational and technical standpoint, BioShock is a masterpiece. While the game play 
 is far from lacking, the respawn mechanic weakens it just enough to mar a perfect 10. Overall, 
 I have to say BioShock is probably one of the greatest games of all time. A Note on Performance: 
 For anyone concerned about how the game is going to run their computer, it will definitely take 
 a pretty beefy machine to take full advantage of the game's visuals. However, that's not to say 
 that toning down the graphics a bit won't make a huge impact. As a matter of comparison, the game 
 runs spectacularly on my computer. Here are the main specs:
  EVGA 122-CK-NF63-TR 680i SLI Motherboard
  Intel Core 2 Duo E6850 at 3.0Ghz
  OCZ SLI-Ready RAM 
 2-Gigs
  EVGA 8800GTS 640Mb (x1)
  
  I run the game at 1680 x 1050. It doesn't lag at all, even in high action sequences with lots of 
 stuff happening on-screen. Load times are fast, and visuals look amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torinraven
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  The landscape of PC games has been a desolate wasteland for many months now, with the last decent 
 FPS released being S. T. A. L. K. E. R., and that was five months ago! Now, with the release of BioShock, 
 I feel fulfilled once more. After a several hours of play, I find myself in a cold sweat, shaking 
 with the anticipation of getting home from work tonight, so I can continue my descent into the 
 aptly-named city of Rapture. This game was everything I had hoped for and more.
  
  Graphically, this game is fantastic. I only have a 512MB X1800XT, so I'm limited to DX9 rendering, 
 but I can run the game in 1680x1050 with everything cranked all the way up, and so far there has 
 not been a single detectable hiccup of any sort.
  
  The period ambiance is excellent, with a strong art deco vibe to everything, and there is a palpable 
 feeling of decay in the air. You can practically smell the place dying. The music is wonderful 
 as well.
  
  Sound-wise, everything is fantastic with two exceptions: first, the sound when I walk is... off 
 somehow, as my footsteps will keep coming from different directions, and I sound like a herd of 
 drunk elephants when I walk. The second problem was touched on by an earlier reviewer, and that 
 is that sounds (especially other characters) sound like they are much closer than they are. In 
 a way, this can be viewed as a good thing, since it keeps you on edge earlier before an encounter, 
 but on the other hand, it can just be too difficult to determine where something is.
  
  The immersion factor is excellent. From the very beginning, you really do feel as if you are a 
 part of the story. I loved the fact that the intro was not some long-winded, convoluted backstory; 
 rather, you are thrown into the story, and you figure out what is going on from there, a la Lost.
 
  
  Final word: get this game. For the love of God, run out and buy it. It is more than worth the money. 
 Remember: if we reward excellent developers like this for producing exemplary games such as BioShock, 
 then maybe our favorite gaming platform will keep getting great games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enver_majid
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  This game is off the flipping hook!!! I'm old enough to remember the spiritual precursors to Bioshock 
 (System Shock 1 &amp; 2) , and this is very much in the same vein, albeit jacked up a few hundred 
 notches. The gameplay is ridiculously fun and addictive, the story is compelling so far, the pacing 
 is perfect, the graphics are cutting edge, the sound is perfect, and as the developers have been 
 touting for the past couple of years, the water effects are the best seen in any game to date (I 
 suppose Crysis will outdo all of the above, except the story) ... the setting is appropriately eery 
 and full of retro camp - you'll appreciate that whether or not you're a Fallout fan :)
  
  Perhaps what I am most impressed with is the richness dripping from every aspect of the game. Everything 
 is crafted with great detail and authenticity, and its obvious that this game was a work of love. 
 Although the AI (especially for the Splicers) is a little lacking, all they do is charge blindly 
 most of the time, it seems appropriate somehow. Hats off to the development team. For some reason 
 I keep thinking Shodan's going to make an appearance around some corner. Maybe an easter egg? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karnog
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:48 am PT
Review:  Seems the 2+ year wait was worth it. I have only gotten about 3hours of play time in the game but 
 I had to make myself stop playing to go to bed last night.
  
  The graphics/story/feel of the game all seem to be perfect from what I have played of it thus far. 
 They do a great job of making you feel like you are down under the ocean and that the city is falling 
 apart. I still have a long ways to go in the game so giving it a 9 for now since I have not finished 
 it but my guess is it will be a 10 if it stays as stable and interesting as it has so far.
  
  I am running an AMD 4200oced to 4420, 2 gigs of 667 ddr ram, and a Gforce 8800 (640meg version) 
 and I have everything on high detail at 1600X1200 and the game is running silky smooth so those 
 with decent systems are gonna enjoy this. I am not using dx10 since I am on XP still but it still 
 looks oh so pretty. Bottom line if you were thinking about getting this game stop thinking and 
 go get it, its damn fun :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baselerd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  Well, here comes Bioshock, the highly anticipated game from 2k Games. Now I will not give a summary 
 of all the game's features, due to the wide variety of sources available for that. Rather, I will 
 illustrate it's strengths and weaknesses (in my opinion.)
  
  First off, as a big fan of System Shock 2, I was worried that the developers were streamlining 
 this game to work on consoles. No inventory screen, skills, etc... I thought this was going to 
 be another oblivion (a good game, but definitely console-ized.) Well, I am glad to say, this game 
 feels like it was made exclusively for pc.
  
  Instead of an inventory, you have your weapons and plasmids. These, in my opinion, work very well. 
 Weapons and ammo are easy to manage, and you can carry all of them at once, each with 3 ammo types. 
 You can upgrade the weapons as well. However, the weapons do often feel weak compared to the plasmids, 
 and are limited in functionality. Why fire a pistol 6 times at an enemy when you can just light 
 them on fire and kill them relatively quickly?
  
  Plasmids are one of the best gameplay mechanics I've played in a game in recent memory. There are 
 tons of plasmids, some more useful than others, and these offer a wide variety of ways to kill 
 enemies. It is enjoyable trying to find a strategic combination of plasmids to equip, since you 
 can only carry a set amount with you (you have to choose your plasmid load-out at gene banks scattered 
 throughout rapture.) All in all, the plasmids are a blast, excellent feature in the game.
  
  The game plays excellent also. The story is gripping and intense, and the narrative plays out 
 really well. The game is almost like a playable movie (from a narrative standpoint.) The atmospheres 
 and environments in this game are simply amazing, as well as varied. There is extreme detail paid 
 attention to in the level design, to the extent of which I have never seen before in a game.
  
  The graphics, simply put, are amazing. I don't feel the need to go on about this, but there 
 are amazing water effects, shadows, lighting, models, textures, etc. Ontop of that, the game is 
 very well optimized. I am running the game in dx 10 mode with an AMD X2 4200+ @ 2.6GHz, 3GB RAM, 
 and an HD 2900XT and the game ran maxed out at 1280x1024 at flawless framerates (however, I cannot 
 vouch for how it runs on lower end systems, although my friend with a 7300gt claims it runs well 
 on low settings.) One MAJOR gripe I have about the graphics is that there is no Anti Aliasing, 
 and I am practically allergic to jaggies. I read on the 2K forums that dx10 allows for 16-bit HDR 
 rendering and AA simultaneously, but not dx9. However, it seems in it's current iteration this 
 game does not allow AA, which does lead to a tremendous reduction in Image Quality.
  
  The sound, as well, is amazing. The sound effects, voice-overs, and music are all top notch. The 
 game fully supports EAX 5.0 and sounds amazing on my audio setup (X-Fi platinum + z-5300e 5.1 speakers.) 
 Combat sounds and voices are really good, however I have to give special kudos to the ambient sounds 
 and music. The ambient noise is amazing. If you stand still, you can hear the creaks and groans 
 of the metal infrastructure of Rapture being engulfed by the ocean, as well as the constant flow 
 of water echoing down the halls. The music is really well done and adds a nice artistic, but epic 
 feel to the game.
  
  Overall, get this game! I can't really find many negative things to say about this game. It is 
 only about twenty hours long (a good length for a single player fps.) Definitely a must have, this 
 is the best game I've played since half-life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie785
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  there is just soooo much to this game, even after watching over a dozen videos before the game 
 was released, i figured almost all the good stuff was spoiled, but there was STILL some really 
 awesome stuff in it that i didn't even have a clue that it would be there... unbelievable.
  
  best game i have ever played. period.
  
  there are many things worth mentioning about this 
 game, the excellent graphics, the surreal atmosphere, the spot-on voice acting... but that doesn't 
 even scratch the surface of all the cool stuff that is in this game. so much innovation, so many 
 things done RIGHT. they way they should be done, things that you step back and think wow, i've 
 been playing FPS for about 10 years now and i NEVER saw anything like THAT before...
  
  just loving it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McAndrew_basic
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2007 11:48 pm PT
Review:  This Review will be short and sweet. Graphics: Perfect, If you want eye candy this is it.
  
  Music: Very good for this type of game hands down.
  
  Sound: With awesome speakers this 
 game is both fun and scary.
  
  Gameplay: Game of the Year hands down.
  
  Get this game you wont regret it. Great Item to put in your collection, I simply couldn't stop 
 playing it and finished it no more than 20 mins ago (only because of my style of gameplay) . I plan 
 to go back through it again to check all the area's i might of missed. Truly a remarkable game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snwboardn21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  First off I will say the graphics are excellent. It finally makes my 8800 gtx seem worthwhile. 
 With everything turned up it looks great and more importantly runs silky smooth. What makes a game 
 enjoyable though is the game play. From moment one you feel like you are there. It's the same feeling 
 as the first Resident Evil game, or even the first Half Life. I strongly recommend you go out and 
 buy this game... That doesn't mean wait for the crack to come out on your news reader or P2P. Lately 
 we have seen developers put out some serious crap on the best console, the PC. It is time to support 
 the developers that put out quality software such as this game and the upcoming Crysis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3t3t3
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Finally! Steam didn't activate until 4 pm EST Direct2Drive wouldn't let you download until 4 pm 
 EST. Anyways after a 3hour download and luckily no problems with activating finally got to play 
 it and it's amazing. Graphics are lovely running on 8800 GTX and E6600 with 2 GB RAM however... 
 other then the water wasn't a breakthrough but still up to par with most good games. Gamplay is 
 amazing! So many customizing options and i'm only 4 hours into the game. Enviroment and equipment 
 combine together for very smart and effective combat. Waiting to try out trap setting with other 
 plasmids. Sound of the water and weapons are very nice. With a expected 20 hours of gameplay I'm 
 excited to get through it all. The first time i'm just Figuring out the story then i'm playing 
 a second time to explore EVERYTHING on levels. It's very well optimized for pc and adapted control 
 for keyboard and mouse well done amazingly. There are no glitches upon it's original release for 
 me at least. Nothing to critize from me. Worth the 49.99? HELL YEA! This is no doubt the first 
 real nex gen game to be released. There is for this release date there is NOTHING more you can 
 expect of this game. Everything is as good as it can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TUnified
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  While playing Bioshock, it was difficult to classify it in just one of the many genres for the 
 PC. It's horror, it's survival, it's sometimes a twitchy FPS, a few RPG elements, and oodles of 
 dark atmosphere. Above all, it's a blast to play!
  
  Each element of Bioshock is above average in it's own right, but combined together make a very 
 compelling adventure. I once found myself staring at a staircase with water trickling down, by 
 far the best looking water I have ever seen in a game. And it's everywhere. Walking through corridors 
 on the floor reflecting the ceilings; cascading down through an avalanche through the ceiling, 
 rippling just outside of a doorway, trickling down a wall, the water truly brings a sense of enclosure, 
 like you really are trapped in an underwater city.
  
  Gameplay: Bioshock's interaction shines with it's weapons and enemies. I very rarely found the 
 same enemy graphic twice, and the different weapons/plasmids and combos are very fulfilling. The 
 only problem that I had with the gameplay is that I have a custom control scheme, and this game 
 made it difficult to implement because of reserved keys that were not even being used, and the 
 game would not let me rebind them.
  
  Graphics: Some of the best I have seen, shadows, lighting (or lack thereof) , WATER really adds 
 to the atmosphere. The rooms and hallways look like they belong, nothing looks like it is out of 
 place or the same graphic used multiple times, each area I entered felt like a new place and new 
 horrors to discover.
  
  Sound: There is absolutely no silence in Bioshock, whether it be the screams of the terrorized, 
 the crazed bantering of the living, or the water trickling in just about everywhere, it's a beautifully 
 audible world. I did find some oddities which will undoubtly be fixed in patches, but the shotgun 
 didn't make any noises, some sounds that were supposed to be in the front speakers were in the 
 rear speakers, and there were a few times in which things were too loud for their distance.
  
  Value: This is quite the experience that every gamer should not miss, it's exciting, emotional, 
 terrifying and dark, and I'm still loving every water-soaked minute of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleksanian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Every now and then, a developer comes along and blows us away with a release that brings something 
 new to the gaming industry. Irrational has successfully done this with Bioshock. Being the spiritual 
 successor to System Shock 2, Bioshock succeeds to deliver the same horror/thriller feeling that 
 system shock 2 was. From the woman weeping on her baby's crib to the little sister singing a creepy 
 version of a child song.. everything in this game feels right. I truly admire the amount of work 
 that was put into the game to make the world seem real. Every room is filled with enough details... not 
 too much.. not too little... just enough to make it realistic. Going into the more technical talks, 
 the graphics are really great... shadows, physics... maybe not as far as Crysis but still good. The 
 water feels real and has some pretty good properties as well as fire. Now, let's talk about what 
 makes Bioshock a incredible game... sound. The audio in this game is outstanding... the 60s music 
 when you go into the elevator in the beginning... to all the music and sound FX used in the game... the 
 constant conversations between the NPCs... all of this makes the game a gratifying experience.
 
  
  However, combat seems a little repetitive.. even with all the plasmids and weapons... after a while 
 you feel like you've done it all.... These flaws aside the game is truly a masterpiece and it's 
 one of those rare games that makes you feel that you didn't waste your time playing it. This is 
 not a game for the weak hearted... I myself had some cases where I jumped from my seat.. or just 
 was waiting for that Bigdaddy to put me to pieces...
  Bioshock was truly worth the wait... and I wouldn't be surprised if it won Game of the Year later 
 on...
  What makes a good shooter is not just the bullets and the guts flying... its about immersion... and 
 bioshock succeeds at it.... The game puts you in a world where you can actually beleive that people 
 lived in it. Where people actually had a past... a game that puts some ethical questions back on 
 your mind.... After all, will you be able to kill a little girl??
  
  If you are a fan of the genre, you owe it to yourself to buy a copy of this game... don't just download 
 it.... some people actually worked a lot to make this game the incredible experience that it is... buy 
 the game and encourage them... they deserve it... trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sprayer1337
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Especially for the PC. The controls are very fluid on the PC compared to 
 the XBOX 360. The puzzles are eaiser to manage on the PC, not easier in difficulty but instead 
 of navigating with the joystick, you just point and click with the mouse. Also, the aiming is easier 
 on the PC, but the XBOX gives you some help. If you like the fact that the graphics are better 
 then the XBOX, the PC version gives you the option to play with a controller from the XBOX. (Although 
 I'm not sure how that works.) Not that the XBOX version is bad, it's very far from it. The graphics 
 on the PC are slightly better than the XBOX... if you have a high-end graphics card. The story itself 
 is amazing from beginning to end and the gameplay is great. If your expecting to run-and-gun and 
 finish the game through a few hours, don't get this. If your expecting not to die (a lot) , don't 
 get this, unless you want to play it on easy. But if you want a game with variety of weapons and 
 inovative gameplay, then by all means, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is a thoroughly impressive game in terms of story-telling and atmosphere. In those 2 specific 
 areas, Bioshock is pretty much as perfect as a game can be. Graphically the game is marvelous too. 
 Unlike many recent big-name games, the glowy and blurry effects genuinely enhance the atmosphere 
 and these effects are used sparingly rather than all over every object. So for example, everything 
 doesnt emit a radioactive glow like Oblivion did with sheep and rocks and well everything that 
 was light-colored in that game. Lighting is beautifully done thru out BioShock. Level-design is 
 100% impressive amd encourages you to explore every level.
  
  So it looks nice but what about gameplay? 
  
  I played the game at hard difficulty and the 
 enemies put up a good fight. If I try to ignite them on fire they will run to a pool of water or 
 they might run to a nearby healing machine. Some are complaining about the lack of variety of enemies 
 but I havent felt bored. Some enemies use guns and some use blades. Some throw grenades at you. 
 Some attack from above and others lunge at you. I dont think the game needs more different kinds 
 of enemies. I like the ability to customize your character's abilities. You've got plenty of choices 
 and you can change most of your choices with little fuss if you dont like your character's current 
 proficiencies. But the game isnt perfect. There is zero death penalty in the game and this gets 
 a bit ridiculous. There are many respawn points and you can simply re-enter the battle again and 
 again until everything else is dead. Nothing gets to respawn except your character. I suppose this 
 was done to make the game easier (?) but when you are playing the game it simply feels lame. While 
 this isnt a game-breaker, it brings the score down. It just doesnt feel right in the context of 
 the game to respawn over and over like that. It also reduces the challenge level quite a significant 
 bit, even at hard difficulty. Overall, its truly a must play game and it certainly is the best 
 single player PC game in years. Not since Chronicles of Riddick has there been a single-player 
 action game this good on PC. System Shock as an action RPG still beats Bioshock by miles though. 
 It really has to be said that System Shock 2 is one of the best PC games ever made. BioShock unfortunately 
 is not one of the best games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NosajWorld
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is a game that can get old but not till a month or two of playing. In Bioshock you are 
 a character that's not named much or known in it at all but just well... a guy. You are stuck in 
 an underground city where everyone is an enemy and everything is your weapon (Dead Rising) . No 
 seriously not to far in the game you get a power called Telekenisis where you can pick up anything 
 and just hurl it at your enemy... so just pick up a burning Big Daddy and use your imagination 
 : ) . Bioshock is full of different spells and such fourth but it lacks different enemies. So far 
 all ive seen is Big Daddys and those Splintters and nothing else? Correct me if wrong but thats 
 destroying your imagination. I would also predict that the spells are going to get boring after 
 awile but the fact that you can really use your imagination in this game gives it that UP. Personally 
 I think Bioshock is a great game but shouldnt be rated Number 1 maybe number 4 in front of stupid 
 Lair. If you want a game thats full of imagination and how you use it with spectacular graphics 
 and first person shooter this is your game, if you want a game thats going to last you your time 
 and money and you hate dying over and over well wait for Halo 3 buddy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-Shock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Awesome story line, Graphics, sound, Atmosphere , weapons omg the game is really a piece of art. 
 I'll buy it soon, It is a great game for us. I wish to see more games like this game, it seen to 
 be a great job, their Creativity is really awesome. Without no doubts BIOSHOCK have a great value 
 to any addict to games. I've been playing FS games during long time, after long time it is the 
 first game that surprise me by the original atmosphere and the gameplay. Omg Nice Job....!!! It 
 is a good example for any companies that are developing games, if you make an effort you'll get 
 awesome results. Sigh!!!! really Congratulation. It is a work of art for everyone
  
  btw I'm talking about the PC demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy5555555
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  ok i just got the game like 4 hours ago and i cant stop playing it, if you can run this game then 
 go out and buy it. if you have a computer with the Ninvidea 7950 graphics card then it will crap 
 out and die, all you have to do is force install the Bioshock drivers to do this go here http://www. nzone. com/object/nzone_bioshock_downloads. html
 
  and so anyway thats what i had to do and now it works gr8. so go out and get this game what are 
 you reading this review for GO OUT RIGHT NOW AND BUY THIS GAME NOW GO... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geogo3r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  One of the things you'll probably want to do before you commit and buy this game is download the 
 Demo and see if your computer has the muscle to run it. If it does then I would run down to the 
 nearest store that would sell this game and buy it because there is simply nothing better than 
 BioShock.
  
  The Plot:
  From the moment you start the game you feel like your a piece in this gigantic plot that is set 
 into motion when you arrive. Nobody knows how you got there, why you survived, or how you found 
 Rapture. The only thing that matters is that your from the outside world and are a Parasite in 
 the eyes of the people of Rapture.
  
  The Graphics:
  The graphics are simply Jaw-Dropping if your computer has the muscle to run it. The Water is more 
 real than anything I have seen before and if you didn't know they set aside a special team just 
 to make the water look so real and give it the right physics and all.
  
  The Sound:
  The sound is quite impressive but not quite perfect. They could of improved in this category.
 
  
  The Sound Track:
  I would say its one of the most original Sound Tracks out there. The kind that plays on the Radio 
 gives you a real sense and feel of what it was like during that time. As for the other musical 
 moments they are great as well.
  
  Overall:
  This game is one of the Must-Haves of 2007. Even if your computer cant run everything on high, 
 the plot is still enough to keep you playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scirradoo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  From the very start of this game and beyond it has felt like I was living in a movie. The graphics 
 are pretty serious and I am sur eyou need a very next Gen video card to play it for sure. If you 
 have all this the Expierence is just simply overwhelming. If you delay getting this game your missing 
 out on what the next gen FPS is going and should be all about! So go out to the store right now, 
 don't wait go now and get this game. Rob a bank if you don't have the money whatever you need to 
 do get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistrbigg
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  Ohh beautiful water how you glisten so hehe. heres what i love about first person shooters: running 
 around and shooting and killing stuff while looking at a gorgeoes atmosphere that was designed 
 not to imitate real life... but to give you a sence that you are in something that is unreal, no 
 pun intended. Most gamers i know play games for gameplay and immersion not SO much for graphics 
 but let me say, this is the first game i have ever played that claimed some mighty high graphic 
 tech and came through on all fronts. the water is jaw dropping on my 8800 gtx. granted my system 
 is very high end so my view point on how this game plays and looks is a bit scewed but i can imagine 
 that if it looked even half this good, it would stuill be masively enjoyable to play. I'm not too 
 far into the game at this point but already know i am gonna be at it for pretty much all day today. 
 the use of plasmids and the blood effects when you shoot someone honestly diturb me in that giddy 
 way like when you drive by an automobile accident and HAVE to look. the ;little sisters straight 
 up kreep me the heck out. everything about the game is polished and man ohhh man does it run smooth, 
 its the only dx10 game i have (dirt, is madden 08 dx10?) that seems to really make use of it.. 
 notice the whale in the begining and the spectacular bump mapping. characters look creepy and weapons 
 are sweet. i must also add FINALLY someone got the hand look and animation right... took long enough.
 
  
  overall so far as a casual gamer with a nice gaming rig this is by far the coolest, funnest game 
 i have ever played. bravo to 2k games on this one.. it's a doosy
  
  Amend: Ok played the game for an entire day (so nice to own your own business hehe) and i would 
 now give it an 11 if i could. not one glitch, not one hang, the only thing i am not liking is my 
 idiot self cant seem to not get lost in the game hehe. smoke... best i've ever seen, fire best ive 
 ever seen, water.... that sh#t is straight up photo realistic. characters awesome, i LOVE how blood 
 squirts out of them when they are hit or shot and how it lays on the ground like real blood. the 
 control between plasmids and guns is easy to use. the use of samples from different sources in 
 the audio when confronting an enemy is awesome! killer voice acting, i dont know what the heck 
 some of the reviewers are talking about, i am an audio proffesional and this game has outstanding 
 audio.
  
  not to sound too much like a jerk to people that are having problems activating that purchased 
 a hard copy, but the first time i did the activation i put in the code wrong.. and make sure you 
 leave it EXACTLY like it is in the book... use caps and leave the dashes in... when i did that... 
 bam went right through with no probs. i love FPS's that dont make you think too hard, make the 
 controls fairly easy to use and let you do what fps; s were designed for... a stress release by going 
 around a killin' a bunch ohh shtuff. this is the best game i have ever played that is like this. 
 i found myself actually contemplating for 5 minutes or so wheather or not i wanted to harvest or 
 save a little sister, mainly because the animation was soooooo cute hehe. if this is at all graphically 
 what we can expect from next gen games then i am super glad i put this gaming rig together.
  
  have a good one
  biggie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reddevilofhell
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  What this game gives you is 1. Incredible Visuals
  2. Incredible sound
  3. Impossible but beautiful display of water (The real water seems fake in front of this virtual 
 one)
  4. The huge amount of work done by the developers to make it as close to real
  5. The huge world to explore, with no single line story mode to follow
  6. Changing the whole 
 meaning of FPS
  7. A game with a whole new and original concept, with nothing to lose and everything to gain
 
  8. and a lot lot more
  
  So if u want to live in a different world,,, Get this game
  U want regret it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jts1991
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  This game had me biting my fingernails for 3 weeks... and i have to say... even though i have no 
 fingernails... lol... this game is one of the best i have ever played.. and that is not an exaguration.. 
 i mean the chlostrophobia in this game makes it so intense... ive asked probobly 100 people. and 
 only one of them says its sucks.. but i have to tell u . u will NOT finda better game. I didnt even 
 know about this. I had my eyes set on crysis. but now.. i dont think it will even compare to this. 
 I wish i had vista to actually test out my 8800gts. but w/e still looks amazing on highest Resolution 
 and highest settings on dx9.. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
