-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Birth of America
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/birthofamerica/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 14 scenarios cover every facet of the American Revolution and French and Indian war.
 Terrain and weather are flawlessly implemented.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Halfhearted attempts at broader appeal are awkward and incomplete.
 Minimal production values, including an irritating MIDI tune that functions as the entire soundtrack.
 A few unbalanced scenarios feel out of place.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 15, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.0, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 90 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: AGEOD
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Oct 5, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Birth of America's challenging AI and historical authenticity will please grizzled wargamers, but 
 it doesn't do enough to broaden the genre's appeal to newcomers. 

  Turn-based historical wargames have always occupied a special niche in PC gaming history, but they're 
 not known for their accessibility. Birth of America attempts to bridge that gap somewhat by focusing 
 squarely on combat and eliminating much of the micromanagement that accompanies most wargames. 
 It also takes place on a handsome hand-drawn map that painstakingly re-creates the geographical 
 landscape of colonial America. Yet the game still suffers from the traditional drawbacks of the 
 genre: meager production values and a steep learning curve that limits the enjoyment to veteran 
 armchair generals.  

          As Washington learned at Valley Forge, wintry weather is devastating to troops.     

 
  Experienced grognards still have close to 30 years of history to play with that include struggles 
 from both the American Revolution and the French and Indian War. The four full campaigns included 
 are long and deep, and they incorporate the British, Americans, French, and American Indians in 
 a variety of challenging scenarios. If you're not inclined to play a hundred turns, you can pick 
 a small subscenario that can take as few as four turns to complete.  

  There's a minimal amount of economic and construction worry in Birth of America, tied mainly to 
 your supply wagons, depots, and forts. In fact, the entire concept of supply lines common to most 
 wargames is eliminated; here, supplies are delivered by wagons and generated by civilized regions. 
 Depots and forts also grant supplies, while forts have the additional advantage of barricading 
 rivers and harboring troops. However, the bulk of gameplay focuses on troop movement and battle, 
 which is further emphasized by Birth of America's simultaneous turn-based structure. In a traditional 
 turn-based wargame, each player takes his turn after the other is complete. Here, once you click 
 the end turn button, both players' turns take place simultaneously. The system isn't typical, but 
 it lends a welcome degree of chaos and suits the revolutionary setting.  

  If one historical anecdote jumps to mind when playing Birth of America, it's that of George Washington 
 and his troops suffering in Valley Forge during the cruel winter of 1777-78. Terrain and weather 
 have a huge effect on troop behavior and movement, resulting in a good deal of attrition in wild 
 and snow-covered areas. You can manage troop movement across multiple turns, however, even with 
 multiple movements within a single turn. Thus, you're not stuck crossing mountains and rivers unless 
 it falls within your plan or is completely unavoidable. On the other hand, though mountains will 
 slow down your troops, they'll also offer hide bonuses, which are always good for an ambush, assuming 
 you have units stealthy enough.  

  In combination with an unforgiving fog of war, the terrain and weather offer the artificial intelligence 
 plenty of chances to exploit your weaknesses. Fortunately, you've got some highly qualified leaders 
 at your disposal, like George Washington himself. Each leader unit provides specific bonuses to 
 the troops he leads, so it's never a good idea to send out leaderless units. Yet as great as some 
 of these bonuses are, such as movement speed and special defensive and offensive capabilities, 
 your leaders may ignore your orders. Every leader has a strategic rating, and the lower the rating, 
 the less capable he is of following your commands.  

  Scenarios are well-balanced for the most part, although some heavily favor one faction to the point 
 of absurdity. Even the scenario description can't prepare you for the 1775 Canada Invasion, for 
 instance, which is almost impossible if you play as the Americans. Like most of Birth of America, 
 the imbalance is historically accurate and a test of the elite wargamer's resolve, but it also 
 limits the level of enjoyment for more casual players. The 1755 campaign is equally rough if you 
 play as Great Britain, since the French have a huge upper hand in the first two years.  

  Commanding is fairly easy using the drag-and-drop interface, and the heads-up display is unfussy 
 and simple to use. Yet it's not always easy to digest the information once it's all spelled out 
 in the results list. You can click on those results, which takes you to the region in question, 
 but it doesn't highlight the unit in question. This wouldn't necessarily be an issue if the in-game 
 text weren't so tiny. You can zoom in to a reasonably close view, but even at medium distance, 
 city names and unit playing pieces are insufferably small, while visual cues like unit stances 
 are almost impossible to see. There's also the issue of the large interface element in the upper 
 left corner. Aside from showcasing a pretty banner that represents the terrain and weather of the 
 highlighted region, it simply takes up space. The actual game map and region details offer the 
 necessary information without needing the additional clutter.  

  Yet for all the attempts at a kinder, gentler wargame, Ageod doesn't go the distance needed to 
 bring new players into the fold. The design is more compact than the standard wargame, but there's 
 still a lot of information to sort through. The in-game tutorial is essentially useless, telling 
 you how to move units and leaving everything else to the 28-page manual and the unit descriptions 
 on the game CD. Yet enough has been streamlined that experienced wargamers may feel that something 
 is missing, whether it be diplomacy options, supply-line tactics, or more building options.  

 
          Even with the focus on combat and streamlined interface, newcomers will be bogged down 
 by minutiae.     

  Birth of America also lacks flavor, which extends from the bland box art to the dreary in-game 
 menus. The game map itself features some lovely hand-drawn artwork, but it isn't very colorful, 
 so the visual appeal is limited. It also hitches as you scroll across, which is unusual, since 
 the 2D engine shouldn't be taxing to a modern PC. The audio design suffers from a bare-bones MIDI 
 soundtrack that repeats the same tune so much, you will eventually turn it off completely. And 
 unlike the scenarios, the tune isn't even very authentic, bringing to mind the bombast of current 
 military films more than anything distinctly American. The sound effects are the run-of-the-mill 
 marching sounds and other tidbits you've heard in most other turn-based military titles.  

  If you're so inclined, you can copy a bunch of files and e-mail them to someone else, who can then 
 drop them into a folder, take his turn, and e-mail them back. It's hardly a user-friendly way to 
 have a multiplayer game, but then again, Ageod made only a handful of concessions in what is essentially 
 just another hardcore military wargame made for genre enthusiasts. Birth of America has all the 
 necessary elements working under its hood, including a terrific implementation of weather and terrain 
 and a hearty AI that keeps you on your toes. Yet the attempts to appeal to the masses feel meager, 
 and the game loses some of its identity as a result.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wireman32
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 6, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  All the people who have reviewed this game have pretty much laid out what needs to be said.
  
  1. it's a game for historical purposes mostly. it has all the appeal of risk, with some added 
 touches of ease and fog of war.
  
  2. If you're wanting depth, there isn't a whole lot there. I shouldn't but I will compare this 
 game to Medieval 2. This game could be on that sort of level if they incorporated real-time battles, 
 even if they were just pre-animated versions of soldiers blowing up and getting shot. Give some 
 actual visual representation of what is happening, not statistics. Show a battlefield or something. 
 You can't really control what happens during the battle. It's more of a numbers thing. Some tactial 
 options like attack at night, using trees, any kind of actual warfare techniques would be nice.
 
  
  3. Interface actually didn't bother me. I got used to it right away with no problems, other than 
 there being no way to get the hints back in the tutorial once you've clicked away...? Also people 
 unanimously agree that the sound needs work.
  
  This is a pretty good game if you want to play commander, but if you're in it for the glory, you 
 would rather be ruling the world in civ or total war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bur0203
Rating: 3.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  The round based game Birth of America gives the player not much influence within the different 
 scenarios. The presentation is bad, the interface clumsy.
  There is not much information to be gained at the end of round how the battles went and why. Was 
 it the milita that let you down, the regulars? The stacks dont display much information. Some scenarios 
 are so biased that they are not worth playing, e. g. invasion of Canada. In those 6 rounds you have 
 zero strategic flexibility as the American side. The map is ok, the supply system at first seems 
 intriguing but in the end not really important.
  
  Try the demo, don't buy this piece of crap unseen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conquerant
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  As a Revolutionary War reenactor and amaturer historian of the period, the lack of a decent game 
 set in this period (and I don't count American Conquest which, though fun, didn't really capture 
 the true flavor of 18th century warfare) always vexed me. But this game really puts you in the 
 boots of General Washington et al, and does a fanstastic job of modelling the warfare of the age. 
 But it's a game made for history geeks like me. If you're a casual gamer looking for real time 
 battles like a previous reviewer, yes you'll be sorely disappointed. But if you're a history nut 
 who loves historically accurate games, you'll love this one.
  
  The AI is pretty decent too, and it took me a decent number of games before I was able to beat 
 them. One great thing about this game is how you don't really know where all the enemy armies are. 
 You'll be playing away thinking your strategy is going great, then all of a sudden a Brit army 
 shows up you didn't realize that was there. Which is pretty accurate for the period. So if you're 
 used to typical strategy game where you see everything, and everthing has a strict viewable percentage, 
 it takes a bit getting used to. But welcome to 18thC warfare. The only real problem is the soundtrack 
 is awful. Music of the period is in the public domain, and it wouldn't have been too hard to get 
 a decent fife and drum unit to do a performance for reasonable pay. But if you're buying this, 
 chances are you already own a 18thC military music CD, so turn off the music and play that in the 
 background. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3176jk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 14, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  If you are a grognard, this game is for you! If you don't have any idea what a grognard is, this 
 game is probably not for you. This is, by far, the best all-around presentation of the 18th century 
 wars in North America. The game is very deep, but accessible. The manual could be more complete, 
 the electronic version on the CD is nothing more than a scanned (at least it's in color) version 
 of the paper one, but the mouse over boxes are very helpful and complete, even if a bit of a bother 
 while scrolling around the map. Speaking of scrolling, this is one thing that does seem to be a 
 bit sluggish. The map is very well done, with individual weather, terrain, ground conditions and 
 supply for each county . The map is huge and there are many many many counties.
  
  Historical detail is all here including a reasonably good coverage of the naval aspects of this 
 period and local. There are bateaux units as well but these are larger than the canoe fleets that 
 you might be thinking about if you've played AH's 1776 board game.
  
  There is no political wrangling to be had in this game; they don't call it a War Game for nothing 
 you know. The format for the game is we-plan/we-go and the fog of war aspect that the computer 
 handles so adeptly is the one thing that board games lack. Fog of war was a very key aspect in 
 this theater and the game does a great job of modeling it.
  
  The sound track had just one song (it is a bit catchy) but this could easily have been better, 
 with period music instead. The sound effects are fairly typical for a game of this type (minimal 
 and thin) . Moving = Crunch, crunch, crunch and shooting = Pow, pow, pow. . But, come on, you don't 
 buy games like this for the soundtrack, you buy them because they do a good job of presenting the 
 perspective that the commander had at the time, with historically accurate details to manage.
 
  
  I have only played the patched 1.09 version and have not had any trouble that other reviewers may 
 have experienced with crashes and bugs. All-in-all, if you are a student of colonial american history 
 this is a must buy for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cthulhu34
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 18, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  Well the interface and graphics were respectable, nothing about this game intrigued me. What I was 
 disappointed with was the map is set out in large scale and the generals are almost like pop up 
 cardboard pieces on a gameboard. It deffinately has the board game feel. Reminded me alot like Risk 
 with a different name, even the battle results scroll in a little box at the bottom of your screen.
 
  
  What this gtame needs is the close up battle sequence so you can see exactly who dies and who lives 
 and maybe your battles can be the main part. Is it an action or a Turn based game?&gt; Seems to be 
 neither. I felt alot like my turn wasn't over since i didn't do alot other then move. When your at 
 war the music changes, aside from that you have no idea.
  
  Try the demo before you buy:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g-suns
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 16, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  A real jewel on the historical wargame scene.
  
  First, the map part is done in a very artistic manner. Do not expect any of 3D stuff... It is just 
 purely ARTFUL, not 3Dful. The menus and information tablets could have progressed further from 
 the times of Sid Meier's Colonization, but this is did not annoy me too much as I was looking for 
 historical warfare, not 3D shooter in cyberspace.
  
  Second, very detailed and innovative simulation of 18th century warfare in America. There are the 
 game concepts, there is the historical research and it is also very well balanced. I hope this 
 platform will be used for other war stages of the time as well (Europe could be the closest guess) .
 
  Although sometimes the absolutely prioritized historical accuracy made me feel little limited. 
 There must be a way to preserve the historical accuracy and make it more exciting, specially the 
 experience upgrades. It was still so much better than seeing battle druids in Rome: Total War.
 
  
  Third, good AI. I never really cought AI making really dumb mistakes. Not surprisingly human (me) 
 won, but it was an ongoing challenge.
  
  Fourth, a fan-devoted developer team. Although I bought the game when there was already patch 1.9 
 out and did not experience any bugs and their solving, I somehow always felt that the team is very 
 responsive just in any aspect - web page, forum. The version number of patch 1.9 speaks for itself; 
 this either must have been a hell buggy game or the fellas at the developer side are working hard 
 to root any out... and regularly.
  
  Some drawbacks
  Documentation - a game of such detail deserves documentation of appropriate detail. This results 
 in lots of experimental learning.
  Replayability - low replayability of campaigns. Each game would be unique by the sides actions 
 of course, but the surprise of historical events will not be there anymore. On the other hand, 
 I played just the Independence War campaign and I am completely satisfied with my purchase.
  Sound - it is appropriate, but starts getting on nerves after some while.
  Interface and menus 
 - not a problem really, but still could be improved both visually and by ease of handling/functionality.
 
  
  In short, very rewarding for anybody who still values games by gameplay and accuracy of simulating 
 reality in one way or another. Has lots of distinctive artistic style. For me it was one of those 
 that keep you playing all night, waiting what the next turn would bring (although you were about 
 to shut down the PC long before midnight) . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
