-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: BlackSite: Area 51
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/blacksite/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good-looking characters and environments.
 Campaign is of a decent length.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Squad tactics never seem to work out quite as well as you want them to.
 Lots of little bugs and issues that add up over time.
 It'll be tough to find enough players online to get into a full 10-player game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.2, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 937 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Developer: Midway - Austin
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Nov 12, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
BlackSite: Area 51 is an ordinary first-person shooter that's held back by a collection of bugs 
 and other issues. 

  The name "Area 51" immediately evokes a number of things relating to the US government, ranging 
 from secret aircraft test programs to more colorful conspiracies, such as aliens and space ships. 
 In the world of gaming, Midway has used Area 51 in a series of pretty hokey alien-filled games, 
 ranging from light gun shooters that started in arcades to cheesy first-person shooters filled 
 with all kinds of weird conspiracy theories. BlackSite: Area 51 continues the lineage in a more 
 serious manner, but it doesn't necessarily make for a better game overall. The game's strong graphical 
 presentation is overshadowed by its run-of-the-mill gameplay, which is in turn overshadowed by 
 a series of glitches.  

           The relevance of the game's opening Iraq missions doesn't become clear until later, but 
 it all fits in the end.      

  The game puts you in the role of Aeran Pierce, leader of Echo Squad. You'll roll with the same 
 set of squadmates throughout, and the backstory is filled in with their chatter between firefights. 
 The game opens in the recent past, with Pierce and his team deep in Iraq, looking for weapons of 
 mass destruction. Instead, you find some not-quite-human enemies that are quickly explained away 
 as humans with extreme cases of encephalitis. Then, you encounter swarms of creatures that explode 
 like land mines when you shoot them. After a brief Iraq portion that sets the stage for what's 
 to come, the rest of the game takes place in Nevada where you're told that a militia has risen 
 up and seized control of Rachael. This is the town near Groom Lake and Area 51 itself, as well 
 as its surrounding areas. While it's painted as Americans who have risen up in protest of the government, 
 that's only half the truth. As you get deeper into the invasion, you'll uncover what's really going 
 on, though the game fumbles when it comes to explanations and never really tells you from where 
 the alien creatures originally came. The level titles and a few references to modern-day sticking 
 points, such as Abu Ghraib, attempt to give the game a bit of an edge, but the content doesn't 
 back up that edge very much, making level titles like "Mission Accomplished" (complete with sneer 
 quotes) feel forced.  

  The action in BlackSite's single-player game is very straightforward. You'll control a squad, but 
 your control only uses one button. If you hit the squad button, you can order your team to move 
 to specific positions. You can focus fire on enemies by hitting the button while pointing at an 
 enemy. You can also use it to order squadmates to utilize mounted gun positions, but you'll mainly 
 use it to get your squadmates to open doors. Apparently Pierce is too good to open doors by himself. 
 The squad mechanic feels slapdash and rarely necessary during the course of combat. Focusing fire 
 on enemies doesn't work as well as pulling the trigger yourself; thus, it just seems faster and 
 easier to do most of the shooting yourself. There are a couple of extended vehicle sequences where 
 you'll drive a Humvee from one location to another while one of your squadmates lays down fire 
 from a mounted gun to take out several giant worms that keep sprouting out of the ground. The vehicles 
 handle just fine.  

  You'll get your hands on a few prototype weapons, such as a scattergun that fires rounds that can 
 bounce off walls or a beam cannon that delivers large bolts of energy. But most of the time, you'll 
 be using a standard-issue assault rifle. The aiming assists that make your reticle stick to enemies 
 a bit make your reticle stick to enemies a bit, making firing on target a little too easy, even 
 if you don't hold the weapons up and properly aim. Most of the enemies you face are humanoids, 
 though you'll also face off against a handful of more creative creatures, such as the fire brute, 
 which is a huge four-legged boss creature with a bright, glowing weak spot on its back that you 
 have to take down with homing antitank weaponry. The game could have used more enemy diversity. 

  For the most part, BlackSite is just kind of uneventful. But it's taken down a notch by a light 
 scattering of bugs and other issues. In the Xbox 360 version, we ran into a spot where the vehicle 
 we were driving, as well as other broken vehicles in the vicinity, suddenly dropped a bunch of 
 weight then started slowly floating and twisting in the air. For a second, it looked like it was 
 going to be some cool alien effect. After a minute or so, the floating cars were joined by a bunch 
 of messed-up on-screen textures and effects, which made it clear that something was broken. Most 
 of the other issues involve the squad artificial intelligence. Your guys occasionally lose focus 
 and run all over the place or say the wrong things at the wrong times. In one case, they'll claim 
 to be heading your way only to start running in the opposite direction. While no one issue is bad 
 enough to bring the whole game down, they all add up to a game that would have probably done a 
 bit better after another month or two in development.  

  The campaign would have been more exciting with a cooperative option, but it's of average length 
 and feels passable. It's also joined by a multiplayer mode that feels half-finished. It only allows 
 10 players to get together and play in a few basic game modes, but you'll need luck actually finding 
 a 10-player game. We felt lucky when we managed to find three other players playing on the Xbox 
 360 and have seen exactly one person trying to play online in the PC version. The matches we did 
 get into made the modes feel like they were sort of slapped together in a passionless manner in 
 order to place one more bullet point on the back of the box. None of it seems to compensate for 
 average ping times very well either, resulting in sketchy weapon firing and player movement. Even 
 when working as intended, it's certainly not going to be your first choice for multiplayer shooter 
 thrills on either platform.  

           While Area 51 conjures up imagery of little green men and UFOs, the threats in BlackSite 
 aren't quite so otherworldly.      

  BlackSite uses the Unreal Engine and, generally speaking, it looks pretty nice. The character models 
 look good and the environments look sharp. The PC version wins out over the 360 version in this 
 aspect, provided you're running on a system that exceeds the minimum requirements. The Xbox 360 
 version has a really unstable frame rate, occasionally hitching up completely and halting for a 
 second or two before things get going again. That wasn't a problem on the PC version, though on 
 the PC, we noticed more tearing than usual. Also, for a game that delivers a lot of its dialogue 
 on the battlefield, it's a bummer that your troops don't move their mouths much when speaking. 
 The voice acting in the game is decent, with the main bad guy coming across as genuinely angry 
 and crazy thanks to some solid delivery. BlackSite also has decent music and sound effects, with 
 properly impactful explosions and weapons fire.  

  For the most part, BlackSite is a boilerplate first-person shooter that has a handful of good moments. 
 As it stands, the game suffers from some annoying issues that make it difficult to recommend. If 
 you're a huge fan of first-person shooting, you're probably better of with a rental because the 
 lack of multiplayer competition means that the whole experience doesn't last especially long.  
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (47 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 11:11 am PT
Review:  Sure BlackSite Area 51 was nothing ground breaking, and sure the graphics and voice acting were 
 decent at best, but it was one thing... simple, basic, and just plain fun.
  
  Graphics - Standard, simple, no issue, no glitches, no crashes... I was happy. 
  
  Gameplay 
 - This is where the game excelled... despite thiking to myself 10 different times "this game is 
 really stupid, I'm done" I found myself firing up my pc and really looking forward to playing. 
 And not just a few hours like some games... wow, nice gameplay time with this one. As for the storyline... well, 
 lets just say it was weak at best. Still, once you got past the bad acting, and just looked at 
 the game as a fun way to spend some time, all was good.
  
  Overall - Go ahead and check your bargain bin for BlackSite, I was glad I did, and you will be 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAL5000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 5:45 pm PT
Review:  I was a bit hesitant after reading the GS's review to load in this game, so it collected dust on 
 my shelf for many many months. One day I decided to load it in and see what it was all about. Well, 
 I was surprised. Immediately I realized that GS's review was off base. I had no problems with this 
 game. No glitches, no disappointments. I actually enjoyed playing the game. The visuals were top 
 notch and the game play was acceptable. 
  I had more glitches with Far Cry than this game but that would not stop me from recommending that 
 game. 
  BlackSite Area 51 is a fun FPS for those who honestly will admit it. Not every game appeals to 
 everyone, but to say it sucked is far from the truth. If you played the game you will see that 
 it is quite entertaining and it makes you want more when you finally finish the game. 
  No game is quite like the other... thank God for that. Variety is a spice of life and if you can 
 get this game..... play it, I am sure you will enjoy the challenge. I would recommend this game 
 for anyone who likes the FPS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narxx
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Even though the reviews seemed mediocre I thought I'd give this one a try as it looked ok and the 
 squad command seemed a nice addition. Unfortunately it wasn't all it cracked up to be! The game 
 itself looks quite nice and plays ok but one of my pet hates is invisible barriers. Where the landscape 
 looks as though you could quite happily explore yet you are hit with an invisible wall. At least 
 make an effort to design the landscape if you want to force players in a certain direction. That 
 brings me on to another downside; the game is very linear and scripted. You don't have much scope 
 to explore or take challenges from different perspectives.
  
  The game really lacks suspense and atmosphere. You are hoping that it will build up but it never 
 does. The latter part of the game in the dome was the perfect setting but it was too short and 
 not at all immersive. There are much better games of this ilk so I'd only play it if you get it 
 for a bargain and have a spare 10 hours or so.
  It's a bit of a shame as it had alot of potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kozzy1234
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  Lets start with the good things =
  
  - Nice graphics in most spots
  - Fun gameplay (although nothing new, jsut basic shooter)
  - Fun Boss Fights
  
  Now to the 
 bad
  - Terrible story
  - Characters are shallow
  - Framerate problems that should have been fixed - Graphical glitches in parts of the game
  - 
 Terrible excuse for an online part
  
  In the end i wasnt expecting much from this game so i wasnt dissapointed really. It was fun while 
 it lasted on the singleplayer, although it doesnt bring anything new to the tables. Id say give 
 it a rent if your bored one weekend, or if its onsale in the bargain bin for 10$ then give it a 
 try. But as far as paying full price for this, HELL NO!
  
  They had some great ideas for this game and some cool graphics but it just wasnt executed well 
 at all. You see the little potential this game had, but then it turned out to be as average as 
 a FPS can get imo.
  There are so many better shooters out there (both singleplayer and online) , that i cant really 
 reccomend this game at all. Go play Crysis Warhead, TF2, Half Life series, Stalker, etc.. instead. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VIKINGS3
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  Ok, lets get started, got quite a few things to say about this game. First my opinion is that its 
 a fun game, with lots of potential.
  THE GOOD: The graphics and lighting are very nice, similar to what you would see in Gears Of War 
 if memory serves, the sound is good but it would be nice if it covered more of the game. Gameplay 
 fun and easy, few controls that cover all the needs you may have. In regards to thier statement about 
 the game beeing innovative for the genre, they are partially right. For example i am the kind of 
 guy that hates to play squad based games, however this one i loved, forget about hundreds of commands 
 for your squad, and decideing to witch member to give them to, squad members getting stuck or just 
 simply refusing to follow your orders.. etc. This game feautures a very nice and simple 1 button 
 squad control, and depenging on the enviroment and what u point to, the appropiate squad member will 
 do a certain action. Olso didnt have any problems with them geting stuck, and usually they will follow 
 u quite nice, without running 20 meters and then having to stop to wait for them to chatch up. They 
 dont die to often to become ennoing (at least not on the casual difficulty level) and even when 
 they do die (actually they dont die, just get knocked down and stay like that for a bit) , its no problem 
 u dont need a squad to play this game. As i said the gameplay is very fun, u will get to do lots 
 of stuff, like driving a car, or handleing its turret, beeing on the turret of a chooper and so on. The 
 AI is quite good too, and (i tested a bit) challenging and the harder difficulty levels. The story 
 is entertaining but nothing innovative, depending on what type of person u are, u might find it interesting 
 or funny.
  THE BAD: The game is indeed pretty short (what i write in () is not a bad point, but i put it here 
 cause i talked about the game beeing kinda short; the game olso has a multiplayer part witch from 
 what i heard is pretty good, but i didnt test it myself) , the sounds and shadows could have used 
 more polishing.
  OTHER: Here i would like to answer some concerns i have seen ppl having on different forums. First 
 bugs, the game really doenst have that many, and most of them can be fixed by patching, i honestly 
 didnt have much problems, i do recommend u use the update patches and update the game to version 
 1.2. From what i understand the latest game boxes contain both the game and the 2 patches. The only 
 real problem i had was that the shadows of a few characters got screwed up in 2 or 3 instances, but 
 that can be fixed quite easy, eighter by restarting the game, or in one case walking a few more steps: P. Second 
 ppl complaining about the game lagging, or not starting up, etc.. i am sorry guys but u cant have 
 everything, u cant ask for good games with awsome graphics and stuff, and in the same time demand 
 that they run on poor PC's too. The game worked great for me, just some small frame lags when i got 
 to checkpoints, and they went away after a few seconds. Now i have seen lots of ppl asking about 
 the system requirements for this game, since for some reason they cant seem to find them anywhere. So 
 i will first post the official system req's, then my own to back up what i said above.
  Official: Minimum System Requirements
   OS: XP or Vista
   CPU: 3.0ghz cpu Intel or AMD equivalent
 
   Memory: 1 gig physical memory
   HDD Space: 15GB 
   Pixel Shader 3.0 capable video card with at least 256MB of RAM and DirectX9
  My specs: windows 
 xp sp2; processor amd athlon dual core 6000+;2 gig's of ram; video asus eah 2600 pro with 256 mb 
 and shader 4.0, directX9
  Conclusion: Its a nice game with good ideas that keeps with the times and can stand up there with 
 the best of them Crysis, Gears Of War, Chronicles Of Riddick.. etc. So my recommandation is buy the 
 game, update it to 1.2, get a no cd crack for the 1.2 version and start having some fun.
  P. S. Sorry if this was kinda long, and one more thing, for some of u ppl, including the gamespot reviewers ("BlackSite: 
 Area 51 is an ordinary first-person shooter...") the fact that a game doesnt bring lots of new 
 stuff, or doesnt take games to a new level CAN'T be listed as a bad thing! Learn that already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gzader
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 6, 2009 5:57 pm PT
Review:  [UPDATED] My original review of A51: BS was pretty harsh. You see the game didn't work... at all. 
 It took 45 minutes just to get to ESRB rating. But a year later, lots of patches, time marching 
 on etc. and now I can play the game. 
  
  This game still makes me really angry. I imagine it makes the developers angry as well. You see, 
 Midway was dying at this game was coming out, so rather than get it polished and finished they 
 ended up just wrapping up as many dead points as possible and got it out the door. It made a little 
 money on people who made the mistake of getting it before the reviews. It also helped seal the 
 fate of Midway.
  
  This WOULD have been a really great game if they'd have time to finish it. The story concept was 
 good, the layout of the game was potentially fun. There was a lot going for it. I enjoyed some 
 of my play time through it. The thing that stopped me from really enjoying it is seeing just home 
 much promise this game had when they stopped it.
  
  Here's an example, your in a back yard, you move to one side of the house and their is a whole 
 in the world. No polygons, nothing, just the end of the world.
  
  Another example, you're standing on the top floor of a house under construction, if you look to 
 the left you can see there is no world. They just never had a chance to fill that area in.
  
  The game is like this in various areas, some feel pretty finished, others just aren't done. 
 It feel like much of the world is living in temporary texture waiting for the set dresser to come 
 in to try and fill the world out. It's a sad end for a lot of hard work by a lot of people.
  
  One more example, saving is broken, sure you can press f5 for a quick save and you get a message 
 that says it saved, but thats all you get, if you die right after that, you're back at the last 
 check point.
  
  After all the post release patches, I was able to play the entire game though in about 8 hours, 
 that's with trying to explore every square inch. I did not have any crashes this time, but I was 
 lucky, look at the forums and you'll see a lot of people had and still have issues.
  
  Buying this came is a gamble. You might get lucky and have a few hours of fun, or you might end 
 up with black screen and no way to start the game much less restart your computer.
  
  Bottom line, get this in the bargain bin or used. Understand you may not be able to play it. Realize 
 that the reason you are getting it is that you have NOTHING else to play or replay.
  
  
  ---- original review ----
  After loading the two dvds, downloading the patch and updating, you're 
 ready to go. This process takes around an hour. It's painfull, but it's the best part of the game. 
 
  
  The loader had goofy music, it sounds like someone made a mistake in the looping, but it might 
 have just been bad design work. You also get about 10 or so pictures to spoil what you're going 
 to see in the game.
  
  Turns out those are the best parts of the game. 
  
  Once you load the game you get a black screen with a white cursor. Your goal is to see how long 
 you can move the cursor around before becoming board. After that you'll need to find a way to reboot 
 your machine.
  
  Next you'll consider how much money you spent on this dog while you uninstall it.
  
  Shame 
 on Midway. The game wasn't finished, not by a long shot and still you put it out to try and get 
 some money from suckers. I hope it was worth it, because no one who spent money on this is going 
 to ever considering spending money on you again.
  
  Guess we've already seen that with the layoffs though haven't we. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anupam2204smart
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 13, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  The game isn't very catchy. The idea seems to be interesting but the game doesn't reach the level 
 of keeping the player intact for hours. Area 51 as we call it in the real world lures us with the 
 stories told about it but the game fails to have such scenarios so as to fulfill our expectations.
 
  The advertisements for alienware computers and laptops, keeps up with the trend of advertising 
 in games and seem realistic but the dirty alien bots and animals shatter this reality image. Plus, 
 the gameplay is very short, which makes it another disappointment. 
  One of your teammates turning into the main bad man looks like a movie idea and makes the storyline 
 confusing. However the game has some interesting situations, such as, the one when you are in the 
 helicopter and you have to finish a huge octopus looking alien animal by breaking up the bridge. 
 The graphics are just good enough. But the game is more of a disappointment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulraider_2001
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 12, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  So far no game has been created that lives up to the hype of Area 51. Black Site is no exception. 
 The promise was of a well thought out and well excuted adventure. The reality is a poorly rendered 
 and very cliche crap-fest. I'm running an Asus P5N-T Deluxe with an Intel Quad Core (45nm) , with 
 dual BFG 7800GT-OC video cards in SLi. On the lowest graphic settings the game still stutters and 
 crashes. In contrast, I run Crysis in medium graphics mode with no issues. I ran the game in XP 
 32bit, Vista 32bit, and Vista 64bit with 4GB of 1200hz DDR2 memory. Still the same results. The 
 patch did not fix any issues I saw. The game just has too many flaws with too weak of a story line 
 to wait around for the real fixes. Perhaps some day someone will buy the rights to the Area 51 
 name and release a decent FPS. This could have been the Doom 3 of its generation, but it failed. 
 And why do we have to constantly involve Iraq in every damn game that comes out? It is fine in 
 it's own genere, but give it a rest already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  For the first time when i started to play Blacksite i feel something else in the air... maybe the 
 absence of a good shooter in the last months... or year... maybe my appetency for a game with more 
 action, aliens and chanceful.
  
  Was Halflife Ep2. (great) or FEAR or Condamned (great, great) ... and very disastrous Bioshock or 
 STALKER... But nothing with true thrill like Blacksite: Area51!!! It's a game with more shooooothing 
 and more creatures (aliens) giants and marvellous action.
  
  Blacksite is great, realistic [a little about aliens :) ] and i mean graphic is a very good game, 
 very, very good graphics for characters and all environments, great game-play with more things were 
 you never know what happen in the next minute and goog music
  
  Good&GREAT shoot em up game AND SOMETHING ABOUT ALIENS... THEY LOOK VERY COOL. Play this game and 
 will find it amazing. 
  
  that game is way better than the old area 51 !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pecone_Penev
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  I was so excited to get and play this game on pc, although there were a lot of bad comments about 
 I thought I would like it. Well, I was wrong!
  I installed the game and I started playing and then my enthusiasm dissappeared! First of all-the 
 graphics-not that good, actually if you take a closer look there is not realtime shadows and the 
 when there are some shadows they looked like a bunch of squares forming the shadow. And I played 
 the game on everything HIGH with Anisotropic filetring on 2X and 1280x1024. Really dissaponting. 
 The sound seemed to be good. bt it looks like that was the only good thing about it. The gameplay 
 seemed boring and pointless. Nothing new, nothing to grab you and make you play it like Bioshock, 
 Crysis, Assasin's Creed, etc. The game is bad I am sorry but it's 2008 they really should have 
 worked better on the graphics and the special effects. The game is not worth it one bit. I do appologise 
 to the fans of the game but this is my opinion.
  To whomever never played the game-don't waste your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cazemiro
Rating: 7
Date: May 27, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  Visually is a very polished game that impressed me in some parts. Sounds are just right for this 
 type of ambiance and weapons are fun to shoot. This game problem is not on graphics or in argument 
 but how it fits in the various segments. It has various problems of gameplay that can be somewhat 
 annoying. the game is short being easily completed in 10 hours. It also can sometimes become repetitive 
 not being more than pointing and shooting for the player, making it not a real mindgame. If the 
 gameplay problems were resolved and the connections between segments was more fluid it would be 
 a real great game and a must have for all gamers. It is not the best game of the genre but it is 
 still a nice fun to play game. A game to try for the lovers of the genre. Its worth your money 
 and if you tried the other area 51 games you wont be disappointed but you wont be mind blown by 
 it. Try it you might like it, i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  The game is trully fun to play, als othe graphics is amazing as well, just at the start when I 
 blow the bridge and the army with a tanks went down concrete peices went down as well... made a 
 good impressiona shooting a bit weird flying bullets could have been more realistic but does not 
 affect on game at all, in overall game is great, all those bugs and creepy aliens trying to attack 
 you, gritty look plus intense of being pinned by enemies.
  
  Sound effects and horrific game storry and briliant design of environment makes this game really 
 fun and intensive. A bit annoying indeed the flash that you can notice on army uniforms.. I think 
 they tried to enlight the game but apparently to much or worng. Aparently after while thsi light 
 gets annoying and badd for eyes as you can see flashin enemies in dark shaded corners, I mean WTF?!!!!... 
 this should not bee... IRagi soldiesrs lightened like christmas tree....
  
  But again overall game is worth to play and can deliver really good intensive gameplay!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 7
Date: May 23, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  Now Ill just start off by saying that this is an average game.. Not a particularly good game but 
 I did enjoy my time playing it.. The games basic premise is you command a squad of two other characters 
 at a time and they help you fight off the enemies.. The problem is there really isnt much of a 
 reason to have this mechanic except for there to be characters and add some to the story.. All 
 you can pretty much tell them to do is target an enemy or open a door.. The game also is really 
 easy to even near the end of the game where you would think the challenge would escalate, but you 
 are still fighting pretty much the same enemies that are fairly easy to take down.. Its pretty 
 hard to die in this game to unless you really arent trying.. The sound effects and music in the 
 game are average and for some reason the voice overs were kind of hard to hear during alot of the 
 game but it gets the job done.. The graphics on the game are really quite good especially when 
 you are fighting the giant boss creatures and some of the enviroments look spectacular.. There 
 is also quite a variety to the levels in this game unlike the first area 51 where it all took place 
 inside area 51.. This one starts in Iraq and goes to various other locations.. Some of the characters 
 do move somewhat choppy but the characters and enemies look damn good in this game.. Overall if 
 you can get this game for cheap and you cant get enough first person shooters you will have a good 
 time with this game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eleKtron
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 22, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  The meta score was abysmal for this game so I held off buying it until I could nab it for $20. 
 I should have just spent the money on it.
  
  There are a few annoying things, but overall it does its job VERY well. Voice acting is great (other 
 than the in-combat chatter) , weapons are smart and rememberable, enemies are fun to fight, great 
 use of lighting for mood, squad has personality. Not really sure where the reviewers got off rating 
 it so low. Musta been its timing in relation to several other big-name games.
  
  I know there's no coop and it seems like reviewers are so sold out on that idea that if it's not 
 there, the game automatically gets a huge point reduction or something. In this game the squad 
 you're with actually hits their targets and plays well so it's really not missed.
  
  I'm about 6 hours in and I think it's really a pretty decent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  There are many opinions regarding this game, and here is another one...
  
  I liked it very much; from the awesome environments to all the details. Never did I ever experience 
 one of those famous bugs that some forums talk about, neither did the game crash for me at any 
 time. The install was smooth, and when it was finished, I just started to play right away...
  
  I liked the fact that they made a real effort on the graphics, and this game has one of the 
 coolest helicoptermoments in any game. Sure some of the monsters where a bit silly, but when you 
 threw a grenade at them, they stayed down...
  
  The animations worked perfectly on my computer, so did the checkpoint saves, and I didn't mind 
 that this game didn't have the worlds most advanced squadtactics, I never like them any way, so 
 for me, there was no problem...
  
  I give: 
  
  + For the graphics...
  + For the storyline...
  + For the sound...
  + The overall design (the dome in the end was spectacular)
 
  + The normal lenght of the game...
  + No silly puzzles...
  
  I give:
  
  - Some bad maps...
  - Some silly monsters...
  - Just a little graphic error at the end...
 
  
  Other than that, I can only give it the thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 7
Date: May 8, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Coming into Fall 2007, Blacksite Area 51 had a reasonable amount of hype but sadly, the final product 
 is pretty underwhelming. The game has an interesting premise with the American government using 
 Alien DNA to create monstrosities and human/alien hybrids who then break out and take over the 
 small town of Rachel, Nevada. You play as Aeran Pierce, leader of Echo Squad, who is sent in with 
 2 squadmates to take care of the problem. You'll battle with the same squadmates throughout the 
 entire game and their backstories are filled out through conversations and chatter during firefights. 
 The game also has a political spin and mocks our current situation in the war with Iraq (the game 
 even starts in Iraq) but it doesn't resonate enough to make us care, unlike Bioshock. The graphics 
 are the highlight of the game, using the Unreal Engine 3.0 and everything is incredibly detailed, 
 especially the enemies, who are quite imaginative and unique. However, the shooting is somewhat 
 underwhelming and parts of the game are simply boring (especially the beginning levels) . The sound 
 is all right, with conspiracy-like themes playing but the voice acting is somewhat chessy yet hilarious. 
 However, there are just little bugs that add up which make the game hard to recommend. For one 
 thing, downed enemies don't drop weapons and instead it just floats in the air. Shadows are blocky 
 at the edges and sometimes the AI squad doesn't follow you and they just wink into existence at 
 the next checkpoint. You'll also sometimes clip through objects. The physics is also not realistic, 
 since vehicles have some sort of "bounciness" to them. The game also suffers from massive stuttering 
 and adds to the frustration. Overall, the story may be interesting but there's nothing here to 
 really grab you. If you must check out this game, I recommend just playing the Xbox 360 demo, cause 
 what you see there is all you'll see in the full game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Total_mischief
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  First, there's no denying in saying the game looks good, with overall beautiful graphics, if not 
 for the occasional glitch and the lack of marks from bullets when you shoot a wall, wich I doubt 
 was sort of the basic thing to have in a first-person shooter. There's also a lack of setting configuration 
 wich I find very strange for a PC game, I have to say it's a first in the past years for me.
  
  The story is decent, we've seen better, much better, but much worse as well. You know what's 
 going to happen at the end after the first level but they managed to make a good storyline out 
 of it with solid characters.
  
  So far, you'd think the game deserves more than a 5. Before you reach the end, you'd give it a 
 8 or so, but it's when you realize how incredibly short it is that you can't get yourself to give 
 more than that. It took me 4 hours to beat the game on normal difficulty, wich is awefully short. 
 You'd espect more from a game that costs $50, but no. A huge disappointment on that side.
  
  As for the multiplayer .. well .. no one plays, so don't count on that to make it up for the 
 short singleplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazman3434
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 25, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Blacksite Area 51 is a fun game if you love playing a singleplayer champain over and over or fighting 
 5 other people online. I give credit to the singleplayer champian as a fun 1rst shooter firing 
 your gun at the bad aliens. My favorite mission is the helicopter mission. The other driving missions 
 though may not be as fun. Voice acting and graphics are great, I like the alien design. That alone 
 cannot distract you from some major issues. There are a few glitches present that may slow you 
 down or even freeze the game. Mulitplayer is dull with a very basic team deathmatch game. Actually, 
 that is the only game type I could play because appearently no-one else wants to play abduction. 
 I love playing the zombie servers of COD2 and 4 and I was interested in abduction mode but trying 
 to join an abduction game for two days showed how dead it is. This isn't a game you will enjoy 
 playing over a period of months. Again, I suggest other games instead and look carefully at the 
 reveiws. When I ingore reveiws of the mojority of gamers, I can easily be dissapointed by the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: 9 - Interesting and even at times addicting. Characters play very interesting and important 
 roles to the store. Rather short game.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 4 - Fantastic graphics if you can overlook the exceedingly huge amount of bugs. 
 Alot of the over glare and discolor issues
  
  Sound: 8.5 - Great sound, realistic voices and enviornment sounds. Adds a lot to the feel of the 
 game.
  
  Environment/Maps: 9 - Maps work very well with the story line and the feel of the game. Maps are 
 very creative and never bland.
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 5 - Once again, plenty of bugs and slow down time to spread around. AI is 
 very tough but makes it very challanging.
  
  Interface: 8 - Great and good looking interface.
  
  Menu: 7 - Good solid menu but I found at 
 times un-responsive.
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 7 - Great game with a very addictive storyline. Overly full of bugs, infact, never could 
 get the ending to fully play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  - Graphically, there is nothing groundbreaking, in fact even set to maximum setting the areas felt 
 drab, and unimpressive. The field of view on widescreen almost felt oppressive, and explosions 
 had nothing in comparison to an older game like FEAR, or today's landmark, Crysis.
  
  - Physics and environmental damage was limited, to the point the feel had no tactile feeling to 
 it. Graphically the game was not a chore for my PC to run at maximum settings, but once again there 
 is a big offset in the level of graphical quality in comparision to Blacksite and the higher rated 
 titles such as Crysis, Unreal Tournament 3, Gears of War, amd Call of Duty 4.
  
  
  Audio:
  - Some of the weapon sounds felt disturbingly weak sounding, being ex-military the M4 
 and the Russian type weaponry just did not contain the resounding pop, or in most areas echoes 
 like you would expect from being in cavernous / canyon areas.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  **Singleplayer:
  - The name of the game is primarily linear, and the story really didn't shine, 
 when put in comparision to Crysis doing the same thing, only Crysis did it better. It just felt 
 like Blacksite was trying to find a niche between fantasy, and reality and didn't convey the right 
 message in the long run.
  
  - You do have squad based control, but with games like Rainbow Six, and surprising Kane and Lynch 
 doing the deed fundamentally better than Blacksite. In my opinion the teammate aspect felt tacked 
 on, and really just an additional form of busy work to get your mind off of the point A to point 
 B monotony. 
  
  
  **Multiplayer:
  - Multiplayer is not the name of the game even though it was stable, there is just really no comparative 
 community to speak of, and the maps given just didn't do it for me.
  
  - The types of online gamemodes are pretty much the standard deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture 
 the flag, which to be honest did not feel right with a game that supposedly to be pseudo-tactical. 
 This mode didn't fit in my opinion. The final mode of play is called Abduction, it fits with the 
 game, consider it like Halo 3's Zombie mode, where it is human versus reborns (alien) , One player 
 is an alien, everytime a human dies he / she becomes an alien until the final human player dies 
 then the match starts over again. 
  
  
  Additional Thoughts:
  - If you could tell I was disappointed, Blacksite Area 51 just didn't have anything outstanding. 
 The games vehicles, Squad based combat, the whole lot just felt like it was trying too hard to 
 do everything, but didn't know what to do with it after it became available. 
  
  - In my opinion you would be better off avoiding this title, and going for other titles out there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sankaperu
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 4, 2008 1:37 am PT
Review:  well to start of with if you talk about the graphics .. well, its okay not stunning like crysis 
 or bioshock or gears of war.... i mean they should have tried to make up for it with realistic battles 
 like for example if you shoot oner opf those alien dudes it\s like youre shooting a brick wall 
 with a spray of water from a hose ... just the spray. i mean come on this the generation where games 
 come with realistic graphics motions and ai.... come on dude .................... for what its worth 
 i would say atleast it was 10 GB wuuu....?! ha ha ha ... i mean its the main reasoni got the game 
 10GB man i was hoping to keep playing this game for a long time..... it totall..... y! SUCCCCKs. 
 And if you look at other games by midway lets take stranglehold for instance it IS AWESOME to the 
 max........ really really Booredd and pissed of with this game ............"afhbdcv ,,... dacvagjbj... cavadihcin" 
 thats alien for keep this crappy game in the dustbin and throw some cow dung on top of it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  Every person has heard of aliens. Many associate them with invasions, UFOs or small creatures with 
 a big green head. What is there in Area 51?
  Back in 2005 the same Midway gave us Area 51, a game that I didn't like, but that implicated high 
 costs. Imagine aquiring the licence & Marilyn Manson's voice. Now Midway just released an other FPS 
 with "Area 51" in its title, Blacksite Area 51. It had really good advertising campaign, even an unique 
 emblem here on GS. But how good is the game?
  
  Graphics-9/10
  
  Really good graphics. Well of course, because Midway used the pretty Unreal Engine 3 for it,& even 
 though it's not as good as it is in Unreal Tournament 3 or Medal of Honor Airborne, Bioshock, it 
 works fine. I mean it really does, even on medium-spec PCs,& that's good. The bad thing is we DON'T 
 have a graphics adjuster in the options menu,& a nasty blurr effect that is used every time you 
 move the mouse is really annoying,& can't be deactivated.
  
  Sound-9/10
  
  The sound is good too. Especially the voice-acting of your teammates, who know when to be serious 
 or funny,& they sound really convincing. Than the alien's creepy sounds are greatly realised, the 
 music suits the game very well (a sountrack like the one in Delta Force Black Hawk Down) ,& if they 
 would have worked a little bit more on the gunshots & explosions sound effects, it would have been 
 10/10 sound from me.
  
  Gameplay-6/10
  
  Unfortunatelly, good graphics & sound doesn't mean that Blacksite is a great game from the start. The 
 game should be a squad-based first person shooter. Well, you have your squad that's always following 
 you (at least this way you won't creep out in a dark corridor where aliens swarm, because the teammates 
 will be covering your back) . Giving the orders is done trough a single button,& that means "regroup" 
 , "follow me" ,"go there" or "open that door". If you have a high squad morale, you'll all be more 
 effective, but if you're pinned down or shot & the morale lowers, it ain't really nice. Enamies? 6 
 or 7 models troughout all the game, excepting the bosses. Then the driving, which is fun but repetitive. Well, the 
 whole game is repetitive, you just open doors & shoot aliens. Pathfinding? It's easy, because there 
 always is just one path & that is marked quite well, so no prob here, only that it gets boring. Really 
 boring. But I like how the environment is designed. Objects get destroyed in a cool manner, because 
 it's Havok physic engine plus Ageia PhysX.
  
  Storyline-5/10
  
  Nothing special. You first go in Iraq where you encounter some strange creatures & loose a squad 
 member, then in the US happens the same thing: an alien invasion. It is a bit interesting, but very 
 clicheed, so you won't e shocked when you'll discover that your X-teammate is now the leader of 
 the aliens.
  
  Impression-7/10
  
  Good graphics & sound, not so good gameplay & story. Overall a pretty cool game, better than Area 
 51, with relaxing driving & shooting, but nothing special. If you buy it you'll have some fun with 
 it, if you won't, you will not miss any major revolution in the FPS world, that's for sure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrob3990
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Game wasn't too bad until I lost all my saved levels and command keys. All that works now is the 
 right mouse button and it constantly fires the rifle and reloads until out of ammo. Not sure I 
 want start over. Too bad!! The graphics were pretty good but squad members have a glow around them. 
 I do agree that the squad members at times have minds of there own and do whatever they want. Overall 
 I was disappointed with the whole game. This game needs a patch to repair the fatal glitches in 
 the programing. I built a new PC so I could play games like this at very high graphic levels. Wish 
 this game was up to the challenge. On a positive note the weapons were well done and the sounds 
 were very good. The upgraded PC I built plays Crysis at the highest graphics level without a glitch. 
 I hope Midway corrects the glitches and can save this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  For the first time when i started to play Blacksite i feel something else in the air... maybe the 
 absence of a good shooter in the last months... or year... maybe my appetency for a game with more 
 action, aliens and chanceful.
  
  Was Halflife Ep2. (great) or FEAR or Condamned (great, great) ... and very disastrous Bioshock or STALKER... But 
 nothing with true thrill like Blacksite: Area51!!! It's a game with more shooooothing and more creatures (aliens) 
 giants and marvellous action. 
  
  Blacksite is great, realistic [a little about aliens :) ] and i mean graphic is a very good game, 
 very, very good graphics for characters and all environments, great game-play with more things were 
 you never know what happen in the next minute and goog music.
  
  Good&GREAT shoot em up game AND SOMETHING ABOUT ALIENS... THEY LOOK VERY COOL. Play this game and 
 will find it amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schwass
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  First things first, this could've been alot better than it was and there is no denying that but 
 to give it 1/10 is taking things a bit to far.
  
  Graphically if on full settings the game is pretty impressive. Enemies look good and apart from 
 the sniper the guns look pretty realistic.
  
  AI in the game is average, your team will actually do something instead of sitting there getting 
 shot. The enemies are a slightly different story, they will sit there like they enjoy being torn 
 to pieces by bullets. Its not a hard game and the aliens of the game aren't exactly imaginative 
 or difficult to being with.
  
  The in-game dialogue is amusing and you will often have to supress a laugh, story-wise the game 
 is pretty good but unfortunately this isn't enough too make up for alot of faults.
  
  Blacksite isn't a terrible game but it is not a game that you will proudly exclaim about to your 
 friends. Yes, the game isn't perfect and has its faults but every game does so it is worth a play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sand-which
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Good game and I luv mostly Every thing With the words "area 51" .
  Even tho this game has good graphic the original i mean "area 51" was far too great ,when comparing 
 these! This has some major bugs which can get fixed after that it will be a great one i think so! 
 lol but it's ok!
  
  IF U Ignore THE Buggys IT Sweet Game!
  
  *Multiplayer Aint Much to tell!
  
  *Few Stupid Conversations
  
  **Un xpected Things happen
 
  
  *Weapon Eah! Boring!
  
  And The Game Play Is This-
  
  
  
  
  BlackSite: Area 51 is a first-person shooter. The player will assume the role of Aeran Pierce who 
 has been tasked on different things since arriving in Rachel, Nevada. There are different stages 
 in the area, although the first stage is alien-free and the only enemies are rebels in Iraq .
 
  
  One of the features of the game is squad tactics. For example, the player can order a teammate 
 to move on a location, attack a certain enemy and set charges on certain items. Throughout the 
 course of the game, there are times when the player will ride on a vehicle controlling its gun.
 
  
  
  An in-game screenshot showing three "Flatheads". Most of the vehicle scenario will pit the player 
 on defending a location from attacks. The game will also feature a morale system for each member 
 of Aeran's team. For example, if the squad is not performing well in battle and is losing or taking 
 a lot of damage from the enemy, the player's squad will start to lose morale which will start to 
 decrease their ability in fighting, lessening their damage and the chances they will hit a target. 
 Also, if the squad has a very low morale, they would possibly rather run away from battle. In other 
 words, if the squad is performing well in battle, they will gain morale increasing their fighting 
 ability, enhancing their damage and defense. Also, the squad will be much more accurate on hitting 
 an enemy and the chances of them on fighting enemies head on will increase.
  
  Aside from the M4 carbine and MK23 handgun featured in the demo, the FGM-148 Javelin missile launcher 
 and the sniper variant of the canceled XM8 assault rifle are the only other weapons confirmed for 
 the game. Factor 5 confirms that the player will be able to use weapons of the Reborn on later 
 stages. Also, the player will be able to move during cinematic events much like Half-Life 2.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fung000
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  I don't know why others like Crysis and Call of Duty 4. May be they like to play multiplayer mode 
 and do not emphasis the story mode. This is a strong point of Japanese games which is lacking in 
 western style games.
  
  What I want is a smooth story with a lot of CG, great monsters and exciting adventures. The Gear 
 of War is very good in this regard and so do this one. 
  
  
  COD4 is too dull and it is just a war game. You need to check the objective from time to time or 
 orther wise you do not know what to do next! 
  
  From my point of view, the half life 2 is very disappointing as you hardly know where to go without 
 a game guide. The Cyrsis to to difficult unless you switch to god mode and the story is a little 
 bit too short. This game seems to be all right and is under- rating by you guys. The idea is good 
 with monster design much better than others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  i put it this way, GUYS if you REMOVE the bugs it will will be a 9.5 and one of the best game i 
 ever played! amazing story and better graphs than crysis and different areas unlike fear also no 
 puzzles and plenty of enemies also the bad guy doesnt look like the bad guy so you get the point 
 i rate it that low for the bugs which aint annoying or have crashes, so why so low? dont you complain 
 about not having a super pc, get one does cod2 and crysis combat look better NO WAY does fear has 
 better levels absolutly not, does gothic has less bugs no are the physics worse than crysis no 
 its an amazing game but buggy! just relax and kill some aliens simple! oh the game is not short! 
 the bullets hit you all time and the enemies move, just like cryisis, so? the physics are far better 
 from crysis so? i judt dont get the point people nowadays care about weird things and dont see 
 a masterpiece when they play it, no annoying bugs while every game has no crashes no puzzles cool 
 levels no annoying enemies, quite ownestly i dont get the point! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  The Area 51 series of games has not historically had much luck with its recent console and PC outings. 
 The original, Area 51, was criticized for its weak voice acting, derivative gameplay, and problematic 
 multiplayer. Midway has sought to revive the series with its newest installment, Blacksite: Area 
 51. But does Blacksite succeed where Area 51 failed, or does it follow in the footsteps of its 
 predecessor as an ordinary, linear, problematic shooter?
  
  One of the first things you'll notice about the game is that it actually has a fairly competent 
 story. Starting it off in Iraq, and leading you to (where else?) Nevada, you are exposed to a tail 
 of military discipline, horrible discoveries, failed scientific experiments, and disturbing political 
 commentary. If nothing else, the game makes you think for a minute about the lengths certain government 
 and other factions could go in order to further their own power.
  
  Unfortunately, when you get to the actual game, Blacksite begins to fall apart. The gameplay is 
 basic, BASIC, FPS fare. You get to carry two guns, one type of grenade, and thats it. There's no 
 dual-wielding, sprinting, or any other staple of quality next-generation shooters. Your missions 
 are often carried out along with the help of a squad, but all that they're useful for is laying 
 down a bit of covering fire and opening doors, some of which your own character is mysteriously 
 not able to open. Once or twice, there are simplistic vehicle sequences which basically have you 
 driving down a road while your squadmate in the turret fends off aliens. You literally get 5 or 
 6 different weapons throughout the entire campaign, and they are completely boring and derivative. 
 The most interesting one is a blatant rip-off of the Unreal Tournament Flak gun.
  
  The enemies in Blacksite are strange-looking, and have a decent variety. Many of them actually 
 look like aliens, avoiding the bipedal stereotype which you find in so many other games. However, 
 they are mostly not very interesting to fight. Most of them rush you and try to club you to death, 
 forcing you to retreat and fire continually. There are several huge enemies, but the way to get 
 rid of them isn't very original, shooting at glowing spots found all over their bodies (such as 
 in Lost Planet) . From time to time, you do fight actual humans, but the AI powering them is so 
 bad, that you'll find yourself taking out entire groups of them with grenades as they stand out 
 in the open and let you pick them off.
  
  Level design is completely linear, offering no branching paths and only one way to get to the next 
 area. Your objectives are constantly carried out by your squadmates. For example, in one mission, 
 you're told to plant C4 on a bridge. What you have to do is order the guy who told you to plant 
 the C4. Your character isn't even given the ability to attempt it. These moments are also often 
 filled with frantic defense sequences where you fight constantly spawning enemies until a certain 
 objective is completed. It is a game mechanic that's been used to death, and its not even that 
 well-implemented here. The campaign is also literally six hours long on the highest difficulty, 
 being dwarfed even by expansion packs to other games.
  
  Multiplayer is a disaster, offering only standard shooter gametypes mixed with Blacksite's uninteresting 
 weapons and game mechanics. Also, you'll be hard-pressed to find a populated session on either 
 the PC or the 360 version.
  
  Blacksite uses Unreal Engine 3 (like so many other games these days) , and so you would at least 
 expect it to look good. Unfortunately, Midway just didn't seem to implement the engine well when 
 they designed the game. Environments are very bland, character modeling and animation are very 
 artificial-looking, and the game mostly looks unappealing. There are a few decent-looking vistas, 
 examples of which can be seen in our screenshot gallery, but they are extremely few and far between. 
 The only decent thing about the game's looks is the implemented motion blur, which also feels too 
 excessive at times. There is excessive pop-in, and enemies just spawn out of nowhere at a few instances. 
 The game runs inconsistently, running at 60 FPS at one moment, to becoming a slideshow the next.
 
  
  Weapon sounds and music are underwhelming. Voice acting is just terrible, making you wish that 
 your squadmates die just a little bit faster so that you can be rid of their annoying voices and 
 mannerisms.
  
  Across all three platforms, Blacksite is close to identical. The PC version is the best-looking 
 of the bunch, but it really feels like a badly handled port. There are barely any options for customizing 
 the game, and the in-game menu consists of a Resume and an Exit button. The console versions have 
 an even greater rate of pop-in and some technical problems on the multiplayer side. Midway really 
 dropped the ball on taking advantage of each platform's strengths.
  
  Blacksite is an unfortunately flawed game. The story behind it shows promise, but the developers 
 really messed up on the gameplay and technical side of the game. It's barely worth a rental, and 
 only then if you're really, really interested in alien shooters and are willing to put up with 
 a range of problems.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halBU
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Midway's Area 51 games have been around in many forms over the years, beginning with the arcade 
 light-gun variety and most recently the first-person-shooter genre. The entire series takes its 
 inspiration from the famous stories about recovered alien spacecraft stored at an Air Force base 
 in Nevada. 
  
  The storyline in Blacksite, however, begins in modern day Iraq and attempts to mix the campy nature 
 of aliens and outlandish government conspiracies with an undertone of more serious current world 
 events. But what does Iraq have to do with Area 51 and alien life? By the end of the first of five 
 acts, your search for "Weapons of Mass Destruction" will turn up something entirely unexpected. 
 Throughout the game you're presented with jabs at the current U. S. administration with chapter 
 titles such as "Mission Accomplished" and "Misunderestimate". At one point, one of your squad asks 
 "Why would everyone in a (Iraqi oil) refinery have weapons?" and another retorts "Uh we sold them 
 to them?" The mixture of the "real and the imagined" is fertile ground for a storyline, and though 
 Area 51 never takes itself too seriously and the plot isn't much deeper than your average B movie, 
 if you're a fan of this genre of story it should suffice. 
  
  You take control of Delta Force soldier Aeran Pierce, and are accompanied by a handful of soldiers 
 who fill in bits of the story through in-game commentary. All dialogue is done Half Life style, 
 meaning that it is in-game and you are generally free to move about the room. Oddly, they don't 
 seem concerned about turning to face you, so you will have to sometimes place yourself correctly 
 in the scene. Unfortunately, none of the extended dialogue can be skipped, meaning that if you 
 choose to replay an area you will be forced to listen to what are sometimes quite lengthy story 
 advancements. Throughout the game you'll overhear casual banter, pop culture references, and a 
 little humor between your squad mates that helps solidify their personalities. You won't mistake 
 it for the likes of Full Metal Jacket or Platoon, but it's not too bad. I did notice that a few 
 of the triggered comments would sometimes come at inappropriate times. For instance, you might 
 take out a guy on a roof, only to have your comrade tell you a second later, "Watch out for that 
 guy on the roof!" 
  
  One of the oft touted features of Blacksite is the squad combat. A simple point of the mouse and 
 press of a button will send your team to a particular spot in the level and if it is marked with 
 the proper floating icon, they will undertake an action. You can also use this command to theoretically 
 send your team to a particular spot or attack a specific enemy, but they tend to get distracted 
 and end up doing their own thing. It's a very intuitive system, but it doesn't work consistently. 
 If a battle is going well, you'll notice a message onscreen telling you that squad morale is high 
 and they will be more aggressive, providing some cover fire and tossing grenades. If you're taking 
 a beating then you'll be informed that squad morale is low and they will take cover. Arguably, 
 there's not much difference between the two because you'll find yourself taking down the lion's 
 share of enemy combatants and your buddies have a propensity for throwing grenades just as the 
 last foe has fallen. 
  
  Aside from grenades, you'll be treated to the standard military fare: Assault Rifles, Machine Gun 
 Turrets, Sniper Rifles, Pistols, and Rocket Launchers, all of which behave about how you'd expect. 
 As you progress in the game, you'll uncover a pair of weapons assembled from alien technology that 
 roughly fill in the shotgun and splash-damage weapon holes in the weapon line up. However, you 
 can only carry two guns at any time, so you'll have to choose which you believe will be most beneficial 
 for the road ahead. If that sounds tactical, it's mostly not as each enemy drops its own weapon, 
 yielding more ammo than you could possibly use and a chance to change your weapons in nearly every 
 room. Your weapons don't carry over with you from level to level either which, barring a major 
 shift in time or place, just doesn't make any sense and it discourages the tactical reservation 
 of any favored weapons for the big fights. The crosshairs are clearly carried over from the Xbox 
 360 version as they are so large and thick that on many weapons that they cover the entire enemy 
 making it difficult to aim precisely. 
  
  Breaking up the standard shooter action are a few instances in which you take the gunning or driving 
 position on an armored vehicle. The most exciting of these finds you commanding a machine gun turret 
 on a helicopter that takes on an alien of epic proportions. Blacksite does a pretty good job of 
 using these unique scenarios to break up the rather basic gameplay. One memorable scene finds you 
 and your squad trapped in a drive-in movie office sniping mutants which pour in from all sides. 
 There's something about a firefight among abandoned vehicles in a drive-in or splattering mutants 
 in the middle of a quiet neighborhood that just makes you smile. These genuinely interesting set-pieces 
 are among the highlights of an otherwise mostly standard first-person-shooter. 
  
  Level design, lighting, and effects are a mixed bag. The basic geometry ranges from complex to 
 fairly simple and textures are oddly low-res in a few places. For example, while the mountains 
 in the game look stunning, a Rest Area sitting at the foot of the hills sits on a giant flat slab 
 with drab tiled textures. In some places lighting lacks a source or seems oversaturated, while 
 in others it looks fantastic. Blacksite seemingly consists of many different pieces that were assembled 
 without someone keeping an eye on consistency. It definitely falls short of current Unreal Engine 
 3 standards and lacks the visual polish of games like Gears or BioShock. Though, to be fair, most 
 games do. It's worth noting right here that my framerate was a little lower in Blacksite than BioShock, 
 by comparison. One reason for that may be due to the use of the Stranglehold destructible environment 
 code. While the scenery isn't nearly as destructive as the aforementioned title, you'll still find 
 plenty of stuff to blow up. Likewise, your cover may not last for long, so get moving! 
  
  Most of the expected options are present, allowing you to configure the game as you please. Oddly, 
 I could not get the game to display in any resolution below 1024 x 768, so those with lower end 
 systems might keep this in mind. An option in the menu allows you to view any Dossiers uncovered 
 in the singleplayer campaign. These hidden documents reveal a small picture and information about 
 one of 48 people, places, or objects within the game. A reasonably thorough playthrough on the 
 default difficulty revealed a little more than half of them, so there is a small incentive for 
 exploring and replaying segments of the game. As you complete a chapter, it becomes unlocked and 
 you may play through it again at will. 
  
  The simple but functional menu also directs you towards the multiplayer options. You can choose 
 to join or host a match, though at the time of writing I was able to find only one other person 
 playing. Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, and a new mode called Abduction are all 
 available. Abduction is a gametype that randomly chooses a player to be Reborn (alien) who is then 
 tasked with killing the human players, each of which respawns as Reborn and joins the fight. There 
 are eight unique multiplayer levels in all and they are largely recycled among gametypes. I won't 
 really go into depth on these; Blacksite does not have bot support and I was able to do little 
 more than open each and run around. 
  
  Multiplayer isn't really a selling point right now due to the fact that there are too few players. 
 For every thrilling moment in the singleplayer game there are two that are lacking, but the quest 
 is lengthy and there are enough good moments to recommend Blacksite to die-hard fans of first-person-shooters 
 that don't mind overlooking some obvious gaffes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warpete
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 20, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  For a two-DVD game, I expected a whole lot more ---not Windows 98 style washed out graphics from 
 the pre-2000 era and a story line that is so amateurish it's frightening! Even the characters appeared 
 to have been layered into the game after it was completed. Many times their feet didn't even touch 
 the ground. Absolutely horrible. In my honest opinion, Midway timed the release of this game to 
 coincide with the release of Crysis and COD4 in hopes that people would grab it up without checking 
 it out first. That is exactly what I did and I'm not proud of it. I think Midway should be ashamed 
 for putting out a piece of junk like this. Vicious "Worms" popping out of the  
 horrifying -- give me a break. I eBay'd my game after installing and finishing the game in one day. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aoki_squared
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 16, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are decent (Unreal Engine) , though shadows look terrible. The game doesn't even seem 
 finished. There is no polish on the levels, and you're often confronted with little glitches here 
 and there. The story is laughable, trying to be edgy and subversive when it's actually shallow. 
 The characters are forgettable, except for possibly the annoying chatter they constantly make. 
 There are a few references in the script that were nice nods, but the rest seemed to be pushing 
 some lame political agenda. Gameplay is decent, though repetitive. The vehicle segments are a bore, 
 and look terrible. When you drive a truck over a huge ramp, and then land with no visual or audio 
 feedback to the feat, then you know something is wrong. The shooting was only fun for me because 
 the guns were accurate, but that made the game quite easy. The final nail in the coffin is the 
 game's length. It took me three and a half hours to finish... Not worth a purchase by any means. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panzer75
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 12, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game since first part wasn't bad at all. Maybe it is a problem that 
 I played Crysis and CoD4 before this, but I don't think so. When I just started this game, I found 
 it very strange. It has some kind of blur, whole world is gray and brightly brown, nature and buildings. 
 It is very ugly, at least to me. And when you start game after that first introduction to blurry 
 world, NOW I get disappointed. It is disastrous! Games from 3-4 years ago had better gameplay! 
 You have to hit enemy 4-5 times to shot it down. Scripting is also predictable, so you know how 
 they are moving. You also have two companions and some sort of command on them. You can tell them 
 where to go, break doors and set explosives. And physics of them and enemies is like from some 
 console 6 years ago.
  In combination with colors of the world, game at all looks like it should never been released!
 
  You people have to be warned - DO NOT BUY/INSTALL this game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ross_Stewart
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 8, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is really good graphics and story line, unfortunetly the basics of configuration, in 
 the main menu stop most users from actualy starting the game.. hehe yes people it really is that 
 bad. not only that but its impossible to patch the euro version, as of yet (09.12.07) with the 
 current patches out from the US. the game crashes for most users on the menu. if you are fortunet 
 to actualy start the dam game, then gud for you =) then you can enjoy the bugs in the game like 
 picking basic weapons up, and the really pants AI of your team mates. Midway Games... you released 
 a game that is totaly flawed and completely useless, a version that came from alpha testing to 
 final production, and completly no testing on the game, what so ever. Not to mention it took them 
 8 months ! to actualy get the engine running a basic enviroment. Let this be a scar uppon your 
 name for future game development Midway games. A word of advise, avoid this brand at all times. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalpesh_78
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  it doesn't allow you to change resolution, graphic settings its detected on its own.. a 100% letdown.. 
 I lie fast framerates .. even if it means to lower my resolution.. bbut here i can't do it.. I've 
 got te latest macbook pro and windows Vista ultimate installed. Crysis worked wonderfully. this 
 game sucks. Why doesn't Gamespot have a ZERO rating?
  There is this stupid blur in the entire game.. but i just can't seem to get rid of it.. the settings 
 in the options menu are a joke. I wish i could return this game and get something like SOF.. that 
 was 8 yrs ago.. and that game rocked.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 5, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I really, REALLY, wanted to like this game. I played the original AREA 51 (which also did not get 
 very good reviews, but I believed it to be quite good, read my review!) and liked it so I figured 
 this game had to be at least as good, if not better. The previews of the game made it seem awesome. 
 I guess this is how advertising can make even the most mediocre product amazing. 
  
  About the best part of this game were the graphics, which usually looked very good. The character 
 animations were very good, and the voice acting was fairly good as well. The problem came when 
 you actually had to play. The shooting was rather uninspired, there were not nearly enough interesting 
 weapons to shoot, I rarely every stopped using the basic rifle. The squad concept didn't work, 
 your teammates are useless. I found Jericho to be much better at the squad concept. The storyline 
 is so weak that you really could care less why your assaulting a position or trying to get to an 
 area (unless there's a donut shop there) . There is really nothing left to redeem the game.
  
  The problems do not stop there, as if an uninspired game is bad enough there were some technical 
 issues as well. I have a fairly powerful computer, but my frame rates were constantly falling through 
 the floor, usually it seemed because the game was trying to access the hard drive constantly. The 
 AI would get easily confused. 
  
  I'm sure some of my issues with this game also come from just finishing Crysis (awesome, see my 
 review!) , which made this game look even worse. I still did finish the game. There are only a few 
 games in history that I refused to finish they were so bad. This was not that bad, I finished the 
 game and did not feel as if I totally wasted my money. If you are bored out of your mind and need 
 a game to play, this will kill some time, and not make you throw up. Otherwise, I would find something 
 better to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:56 am PT
Review:  This could have been a game that FPS fans would find addictive. But, unfortunately the game is 
 not so attractive for various reasons.
  
  First, I'm not sure that you could find one marketing department that after such a long game development 
 would release a game the same week Crysis was scheduled to come out -- games are expensive and 
 a few people would choose Blacksite over Crysis (especially with some excellent games like CoD4 
 released a week before that) .
  
  Second, the very promised co-op was dropped at the last moment. The official website was still 
 saying great things about the game LAN and Internet co-op while the company shipped the game without 
 this co-op feature.
  
  Third, even after such a long development the game is not optimized very well. The graphics appear 
 slightly better than mediocre at its highest settings (far worse than in the official movies or 
 screenshots) . However even on systems that can handle this game at its highest settings with ease 
 there are significant number of frame rate drops which just spoils whatever good impression you 
 got from the game engine.
  
  Fourth, the game comes on two install DVDs ... wtf ... if Crysis and all recent games (long and 
 short) can fit on one DVD why would developer or publisher need to put this game on two. 15 GB 
 required disk space? BTW, the game options settings are also somewhat bizarrely set with rather 
 minimalistic video/graphics options.
  
  Overall, this is not such a bad game as I described it above (I'm mostly pissed about the co-op 
 being dropped) . It's an average FPS with somewhat worse than average AI and some nice destructible 
 objects. The game "morale" concept is pretty much useless. Weapons feel good and their sound is 
 pretty good too, tho they seem to be a bit too accurate to be "realistic". The story ... not sure 
 if there is any or if it's important at all. Maybe if you can identify yourself with your game 
 character it could increase the potential of this game ... but, pretty much you are a generic Joe 
 killing generic enemies. The game gets a bit better after a first few levels, but needs some serious 
 patching. If this game totally fails, it will boil down to the broken "promises" (co-op) and sloppy 
 quality control as the reasons why.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dunkaman
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Some people just dont appreciate a good shoot em up game anymore, this one has great action and 
 plenty to... shoot up. Sometimes you just want to relax and just shoot up some aliens and watch 
 some cool looking graphics and not have to worry about complex puzzles and stuff. This is where 
 the game excels and even though some of the stuff doesnt work like it was supposed to i would still 
 give it a 9. The one gripe i would have would be some of the graphical glitches but other than that 
 it is a very worthy game of buying and having fun with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  I remember playing the first game in this franchise Area 51 and thinking they've missed the mark 
 with it. Blacksite: Area 51 is no exception, they've missed the mark with this one as well and 
 by a long way.
  
  Good things:
  
  Good graphics.
  I liked the subversive part of the story.
  The pistol is actually a good weapon.
  
  Bad things:
 
  
  Crashes.
  Slowdowns.
  Stupid AI.
  Bad vehicle mechanics.
  Not enough variation in weapons.
  Not enough variation in bad guys.
  Woeful execution of the 
 whole game.
  Texture glitches.
  Too heavily scripted.
  Scripting doesn't always work.
  11GB What the hell is that used up by!
  Long install time.
  
  Graphics wise Blacksite is 
 good as i've come to expect from the Unreal engine but there aren't a great deal of graphical options 
 to change. The lip sync animation is awful the speaking characters hardly move their mouths.
  
  This games sound is very average but the explosions sound nice. You can normally tell a good 
 game by it's voice acting and of course Blacksites voice acting is pretty much average, none of 
 the characters stand out but they don't feel as lifeless as the first game.
  
  The gameplay is quite straight forward. You'll get a new mission, you'll travel to it either by 
 foot or by Humvee and get involved in firefights as you go. Blacksites levels are heavily scripted 
 to the point where it has more scripting than a West End/Broadway show. Heavy scripting in the 
 game leads to the scripts not running in the right order or not running at all and of course because 
 of it's heavy scripting the game feels forced, you feel like you're being lead around like a puppy 
 on a lead.
  
  The vehicle parts of the game are quite boring and feel like they were added as an after thought. 
 Rule number one of vehicle controls they need to be good (Halo controls were awesome) , the people 
 at Midway forgot about this or ignored it, i'm not quite sure which. 
  
  The much hyped squad control is nothing more than an optional extra in firefights as the AI is 
 more or less useless when you really need them. The squad controls use only one key and because 
 of this it makes the whole game feel like a console port (which is probably is and I lazy one at 
 that) . One of the stupidest things about the game is that you can't open doors yourself, you have 
 to use the squad command to make them kick the door open or blow it open..... WTF! When it comes 
 down to it, it just seems faster and easier to do most of the things yourself and let your squad 
 just follow you around.
  
  Stability of the game is a real issue, in the few hours I was playing the last part of the game 
 before I did this review the game crashed on me three times with no warning. Other problems with 
 the game are slowdowns, texture glitches, scripts not running correctly etc etc. 
  I expect games to run awesomely on my QX6850, 4GB RAM, 768MB Geforce 8800GTX but this game takes 
 the ****. The publisher/developer were more worried about getting this game out the door than fixing 
 the numerous problems with it.
  
  Overall I think this game is an under inspired, slapdash, lazy and woeful console port with more 
 bugs than is acceptable. I mean for crying out loud it crashed on the credits screen! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gear60
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  You're going to have a blast playing Area 51. Think of it as a Call of Duty with aliens. It's got 
 all the jaw dropping moments that happen in alien movies and the intensity of squad shooters.
 
  
  The graphics in the game are decent .You're going to need a hefty rig to run the game but it's 
 real pretty when you do run it even on medium. There's an assortment of glitches on the game but 
 there not as noticable as some people like to exagerrate. Particle effects and environments look 
 fantastic. The performance issue on most computers is a downside. It can get pretty nasty at the 
 best moments detracting the fun.
  
  The gameplay is short and simple. Shoot anything that has a resemblance to alien or cyborg. It's 
 a simple affair but it's loads of fun. The alien design is very creative and how you take them 
 down is fun. Squad commands are done well enough so you don't need to look after them every second.
 
  
  The sound is decent enough but you won't see anything that'll make you wonder who voices what. 
 Everything sounds at the average level. Guns make the good booms and the aliens are felt straight 
 out of movies.
  
  I didn't get a chance at the multipalyer mainly because well no one is on. Which is a shame as 
 the game chose a bad time for release. It's a decent game that doesn't do anything innovative but 
 is alot of fun. It probably will get marked down because it gets caught up in all the other groundbreaking 
 shooters at this time of year. 
  
  If you like to play shooters or want to relive alien movies this is your best bet. It's worth a 
 rental but not worthy of the 60 bucks charged. Get it on a discount and trust me you'll have to 
 admit it's a blast to play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdBeer69
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start by saying that this game is a huge disappointment, and doesn't live up to the 
 hype what-so-ever. It was looking like a game that was going to have great graphics, intelligent 
 AI, unique squad tactics, a unique storyline, and more. Well, they only live up to one thing, and 
 that's arguably the least important thing; the graphics. The graphics are great, even on "minimum" 
 settings. The reason I quoted that was because you really can't change the settings much. Even 
 with what you can change, you can only do it on the main menu, and not during gameplay. There is 
 also this little motion blur you get every time you move your mouse and turn. It's a nice little 
 affect that you don't see very often in other games, but it gets old fast, and it can't be turned 
 off. The main issue I have is with the brightness, which you also cannot change what so ever. Many 
 locations in the game are quite dark, and even when you're coming up to a much lighter "room," 
 you don't notice it until you walk into the room. For example, if you're in a dark room, looking 
 through a doorway that leads outside, you won't see the outside light until you're actually out 
 there... That gets a little annoying when there's enemies on the other side.
  
  You can hardly change any of the graphics settings, but in general they are good, and at least 
 they make descent use of the havok engine to make things blow up nicely, including many objects 
 you would normally hide behind. Now let's get to the bad things. Wait... You want to hear the good 
 stuff first? Well, that's really about all of it... I've said a few nice things about the graphics, 
 but it seems as though they put too much time into it, and not enough into what really matters, 
 which would be the gameplay and smart AI that we were promised. It's quite pathetic to see the 
 problems this game has, knowing how easy it would have been to fix them, and taking that little 
 time away from the graphics. It's so bad that high-end systems get frequent framerate drops on 
 this game when they run others (Crysis, UT3, etc) no problem at higher settings. Is this the reason 
 it's on two DVD's? Seriously, WTF!?
  
  I was really looking forward to this game in the past few months before it's release, and as soon 
 as I started playing it, I had to force myself to keep going, hoping that it would get better. 
 Don't get me wrong, it does get better, but in small intervals. You have to go through a bunch 
 of pointless and annoying events before it gets interesting. Some of the events that do happen 
 in the storyline could have been done much better, but no big deal. The storyline is a little weird 
 and confusing, but not bad. I know I've used the word annoying a few times already, but it's one 
 of the best words to describe your squad. They don't really do much except open doors that for 
 some reason you can't open yourself. They can't shoot very well, and actually seem to shoot less 
 when the enemies are in the open and only a couple meters away... I actually just stood behind 
 cover and moved the squad into the open just to see what they would do, even to enemies standing 
 right next to them, and they didn't do much... The only thing they're good at is throwing grenades, 
 which they seem to do a very often...
  
  As for the squad tactics? Useless, much like the squad themselves. Oh, and how about this morale 
 system they told us about? Just as useless... Go run out in the open and mow a few people down, 
 or pick off a few guys with some headshots, whatever it takes to get the high morale bonus. The 
 only thing your squad will improve on is maybe shooting a couple more blind shots or throw a dozen 
 more grenades. And when you see something you can command your squad to do, there is a rather large 
 icon hovering in the air, which you pretty much have to be standing right next to in order to give 
 your squad the command to interact with it. The interaction is always pretty much the same, just 
 kick down that door, place a charge on this door, etc... And you don't get to choose which one, 
 by the way... kinda defeats the purpose if you ask me.
  
  Speaking of "AI" and "useless," the enemies are pretty dull as well. If there was a firefight between 
 a few enemy soldiers and you're squad, it would never end. Your squad usually tends to stay behind 
 cover, but many times you will find enemies running right into the open, and right into your bullets. 
 They also seem to follow paths, and often spawn in clear sight. You will find many enemies spawning 
 in plain sight, and it gets pretty annoying. It also seems that it's quite easy to take down enemy 
 soldiers, while they have a hard time killing you, even though they're really accurate with their 
 shots. That's not really a bad thing, but it eliminates any sort of a challenge, at least in the 
 first couple hours of the game.
  
  As far as the weapons go, I can't really say much because my mouse was having problems. By default, 
 they set the middle mouse button to pick up a new weapon that's laying on the ground, and for some 
 reason my mouse doesn't like that button... However that did lead me to realize that you cannot 
 change ANY of the game settings while playing the game, you have to exit to the main menu, which 
 can be difficult to navigate sometimes. Oh, and since when did assault rifles sound like pop-guns? 
 Seriously, I've yet to hear any real gunfire in the game, it just sounds like a bunch of little 
 plastic pop-guns going off... It's not a huge deal, but I had to make a note of it.
  
  So overall, it seems like they wanted this game to be realistic, yet they're far from it. The gameplay 
 is nothing but repetitive, the so-called tactics and morale system is useless, the AI just plain 
 sucks, and many events that happen seem like if it was in a real situation, or even in a movie, 
 it would have turned out so much different; usually in a better way. For example, a part near the 
 beginning where you are on a mounted gun on a Humvee with one of your squad mates driving, every 
 single thing that happens seems the opposite of realistic. You have to see it for yourself to understand, 
 but it felt like going through an 8 year old game... They do let you drive eventually, but that's 
 kinda pointless too, since the driving controls aren't that great, and the way the vehicles drive 
 is just... horrible.
  
  So... the game doesn't live up even close to the hype, and you need a pretty good system to run 
 it efficiently. Even if you can run it, you practically have to force yourself to play through 
 it if you want to see how the story progresses, or just get to a point in the game that starts 
 getting interesting. Oh, and make sure you have plenty of hard drive space, it's over 10 gigs and 
 on two DVD's, which really doesn't make sense, seeing they missed so much. They could have delayed 
 the game one whole month, and seriously improved what they slacked on in this game, but it can't 
 be helped now. I honestly don't think this game is worth playing. Maybe you can rent a console 
 version, but don't get excited... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warewolf77
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game thinking it would be amazing. NOtT. One of the worst games I have ever played. 
 Its not fun, online sucks, controls suck and you feel like your playing a PS2. My advice is don't 
 get it. You may have fun for the first 20 minutes when you first see the aliens, but then it just 
 goes down hill. I wanted to fight aliens not people (and i don't mean the Iraqis on the first level) . 
 The only cool thing is the grenade explosion. Thats it. The only reason it's hard is because of 
 all the bugs (and i don't mean things with six legs that come crawling towards you to try to rip 
 your brain out while you shove a grenade in its mouth) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stealthviper01
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I have played almost every PC game out there and think even the worst games are worth playing through 
 once. I have met my match with this game. I played it for about half an hour and couldn't take 
 the constant glitches and pauses in the game. I figured a Core Duo 3.0 with a 640 mb GTS and 2 
 gigs of 1024 ram would be enough to play it with no problems. Not the case!
  
  After the 30 minutes I gave up and unistalled the game. After having to jump in the air to reach 
 floating ammo over and over I wondered if I was beta testing the game.
  
  Overall they took a usually good combination (FPS & Area 51) and ruined it. Midway has gone a long 
 way since the Mortal Kombat days; just too bad it was in the wrong direction. The only thing this 
 game made me want to do is find the nearest movie theatre with the original Area 51 light gun arcade 
 game and release my frustrations.
  
  Please don't waste your time or money, it is not even worth a demo download! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronos_ss2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  The Good: Graphics are ok, some scenes have some cool effects.
  
  
  The Bad: 2 DVDs, I really don't know why since the game is not that long.
  Graphics are not that 
 impressive. You are limited as too how you want to configure your graphics in the game, it only 
 lets you to change the dynamic shadows. 
  Game-play is poor, it gets repetitive, monster diversity is poor as well, you can count all types 
 of monster with one hand. 
  The story is bad, very bad.
  Characters are emotionless, there is no real drama, even when one of your partner dies.. its like, 
 "oh he got eaten, ok lets keep going" kind of thing, nothing to keep you wanting more or interested. 
 (I really don't know why I kept playing it, maybe cause once I start a game no matter how bad it 
 is i gotta finish it, so I can write a bad review afterwards lol) .
  
  OVERALL:
  This game is not worth playing, you won't have any fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimysquid1
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Very buggy game and not all that well made. It blurs everything if you turn side to side, it auto 
 saves and then on the next part you have a really good chance the whole level will be total black 
 and unplayable or rainbow pixelated and unplayable. You and your vehicle can get stuck in alot 
 of places and you will have to exit and have it auto load from last save point. There is alot more 
 bugs but I won't name them all. I honestly don't know how these game stopping glitches could have 
 made it through any quality testing team. Just save your money till they fix the game so it is 
 playable and alot cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoatheMe
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  If you didn't like Jericho you will probably hate this. I know I gave Jericho a good review, but 
 only because I'm a big horror fan and probably a bit biased, I realize it had it's flaws.... this 
 game has all the flaws that jericho did and more, and none of the good things. corridor shooter 
 with weak graphics, generic guns, repetitive enemies, bad story, and extra bugs on the pc version. 
 for some reason midway thought it would be no problem to release the pc version without the graphics 
 fully enabled. for example there is an option for antialiasing, but you can't turn it on. midway 
 says this will be enabled at some point in the future... wtf? played the demo of this on 360 and 
 it looks a lot nicer than this. it also runs like ass no matter how good your system is. I can 
 run crysis on high without problems but this lags and clips constantly, and its not just me with 
 this problem. I wanted to like this game and forced myself to get maybe halfway into it, but the 
 final straw for me was getting to an area where I walked down an alley and found that the area 
 I was supposed to go to behind these buildings was completely gone. saw some signs hanging in midair 
 and walked up and fell into a bottomless pit of emptiness.... yay. thats the mark of a great game 
 right there. if you really feel the need to play this go rent it for 360, you can finish it off 
 in one night. do not pay money for this crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  This could have been a game that FPS fans would find addictive. But, unfortunately the game is 
 not so attractive for various reasons.
  
  First, I'm not sure that you could find one marketing department that after such a long game development 
 would release a game the same week Crysis was scheduled to come out -- games are expensive and 
 a few people would choose Blacksite over Crysis (especially with some excellent games like CoD4 
 released a week before that) .
  
  Second, the very promised co-op was dropped at the last moment. The official website was still 
 saying great things about the game LAN and Internet co-op while the company shipped the game without 
 this co-op feature.
  
  Third, even after such a long development the game is not optimized very well. The graphics appear 
 slightly better than mediocre at its highest settings (far worse than in the official movies or 
 screenshots) . However even on systems that can handle this game at its highest settings with ease 
 there are significant number of frame rate drops which just spoils whatever good impression you 
 got from the game engine.
  
  Fourth, the game comes on two install DVDs ... wtf ... if Crysis and all recent games (long and 
 short) can fit on one DVD why would developer or publisher need to put this game on two. 15 GB 
 required disk space? BTW, the game options settings are also somewhat bizarrely set with rather 
 minimalistic video/graphics options.
  
  Overall, this is not such a bad game as I described it above (I'm mostly pissed about the co-op 
 being dropped) . It's an average FPS with somewhat worse than average AI and some nice destructible 
 objects. The game "morale" concept is pretty much useless. Weapons feel good and their sound is 
 pretty good too, tho they seem to be a bit too accurate to be "realistic". The story ... not sure 
 if there is any or if it's important at all. Maybe if you can identify yourself with your game 
 character it could increase the potential of this game ... but, pretty much you are a generic Joe 
 killing generic enemies. The game gets a bit better after a first few levels, but needs some serious 
 patching. If this game totally fails, it will boil down to the broken "promises" (co-op) and sloppy 
 quality control as the reasons why.
  
  
  
  [ 11/22/07 Note: It seems the developer has been busy addressing all the bugs and reported problems 
 with this game, so they issued already two patches within a week. The latest one (v.1.2 around 
 115 MB) is at the bottom of this page:
  http://www. blacksitegame. com/. Frankly, more patching is needed or at least I haven't noticed much 
 difference] 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
