-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Black & White 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/blackwhite2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Unique and interesting gameplay lets you be a god.
 More of an emphasis on gameplay and story.
 The creature is the best virtual pet ever.
 Beautiful graphics with impressive scale.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The pace can drag down in the later levels.
 The artificial intelligence isn't that smart.
 There's less freeform, open-ended gameplay than the original.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  5, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 7.6, 51 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 8,553 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Lionhead Studios
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 4, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Black & White 2 tinkers with the original's formula by adding more structure and story, though at 
 the expense of its open-ended nature. 

  The original Black &amp; White was a strategy game that divided those who played it into two camps: 
 those who loved its completely open-ended nature and those who felt that it was a bit too open-ended 
 and meandering for its own good. For those waiting on Black &amp; White 2, the good news is that 
 the sequel is less open-ended and more structured. Indeed, this time there's a more coherent story, 
 which makes it feel like a different game. However, this comes at the cost of some of the free-form 
 gameplay that you may have loved from the original.  

          The angel and the devil are your conscience and advisers in the game, and they're quite 
 a comedic duo.     

  Like its predecessor, Black &amp; White 2 combines distinctly different gaming genres into one 
 game. You will construct sophisticated cities, raise armies and lead them into battle, and if that 
 weren't enough, you get to interact with your giant creature, a sort of virtual pet that can also 
 serve as your enforcer. There's so much in Black &amp; White 2 that it's amazing it all blends 
 together like it does. Though, it does go a bit overboard in some areas at times.  

  Black &amp; White 2 is considered a god game because you play, well, a god. Specifically, you happen 
 to be god for the Greeks, though that's not to say that you're a Zeus or a Hera or one from the 
 traditional pantheon. The setting is in a fantasy world that happens to be occupied by the Greeks, 
 the Norsemen, the Japanese, and the Aztecs. The Aztecs begin the game by sacking the Grecian capital, 
 but not before you manage to spirit away a handful of survivors to a faraway land to begin anew. 
 This story is a huge improvement over the first game, because it offers a cause to see to the end, 
 as well as a focused enemy to take down.  

  As a god, you have a mutual relationship with your people. They worship you so that you can exist, 
 and, in return, you provide for them and make sure that they flourish, which will increase your 
 influence upon the world. That doesn't mean that you have to be a "nice" god, though, as the game 
 takes its name from the fact that you can be a good and benevolent god, or an evil, bloodthirsty 
 deity. For example, you require mana to fuel your godlike miracles, and this can be accumulated 
 by getting your followers to worship you at an altar, or by picking up a random follower with your 
 all-powerful hand and tossing him or her into the sacrificial fire. You can pick up and manipulate 
 objects within your influence, and this also has a way of impressing the natives. If you need to 
 construct a building quickly, you can tear out a tree and drop it onto the building's foundations. 
 Or if you're a more patient god, simply pick up and drop a follower next to the thing you want 
 done, and they'll get the hint.  

          City-building is a snap. Just pick up the building you want to construct and place it down. 
     

  With that said, it turns out that your primary job in Black &amp; White 2 involves building cities. 
 Indeed, the city-building constitutes a huge portion of the gameplay, and you can easily spend 
 hours simply building up each city. There are two primary strategies, and both rely on building 
 a formidable city. You can try to overwhelm your enemy peacefully by building a dazzling metropolis 
 that causes his population to defect to your side, or you can create a huge city that supports 
 a huge population, which supports a correspondingly large army, which you can then use to crush 
 the other side. Or, as is often the case, you can use a blend of the two to achieve your means, 
 conquering some cities peacefully, while conquering others through force.  

  The challenge with city design, of course, is that you're to build something complex in the space 
 that you are given. Often, you have a limited amount of land to develop, as there are usually terrain 
 features that prevent your city from expanding in certain directions. On top of that, you also 
 must construct a city that you can defend, which means keeping the city inside defensible terrain, 
 or constructing walls to keep invaders out. As with any city-building game, there are a large number 
 of buildings and structures that you need to establish to support your population, like fields 
 to generate food, homes, markets, and more. The choices you make have a cascading effect on the 
 city. Put up a lot of hovels to house your expanding populace and you have an unhappy city. On 
 the flip side, putting up mansions will be an inefficient use of what little space you do have. 
 The idea is to balance your peoples' needs and to create something functional and pleasant (at 
 least, if you're going for the peaceful victory) . Meanwhile, if you're going for a militant victory, 
 you still need to create an infrastructure to support large armies. This means fields to produce 
 plenty of food, houses to support the workers, armories, and more.  

  The actual act of building cities is easy, thanks to the intuitive control scheme that lets you 
 interact with the entire world with your all-powerful hand. The game tells you everything you need 
 to know with helpful pop-up buttons, and you can satisfy the needs of your followers by just picking 
 up what they want and placing it in the world. Need to build more houses? Simply grab an existing 
 house, drag its outline to where you want to place a new one, and the foundations will be instantly 
 laid for you. Or if you need to lay down a road, just grab an existing road and drag out the new 
 road into the shape that you want. The entire control scheme is so elegantly thought-out that you 
 hardly ever need to touch the keyboard.  

          The creature remains one of the most intriguing aspects of the series, as it's the next 
 best thing to a virtual pet that can eat people.     

  While the city-building is at the heart of Black &amp; White 2, it also feels like it drags on 
 a tad too long. The first couple of cities that you build can be interesting, but by the latter 
 part of the game, you realize that you're repeating the process over and over again. Most of what 
 you're doing is waiting for structures to be built, or for your people to breed, or for a group 
 of migrants to  slowly  make their way across the map to join your city. If you're trying for a 
 peaceful victory, you're trying to shoehorn as many buildings as you can into your borders, a process 
 that you've repeated in each prior level. This process can be prolonged, especially in levels where 
 you're on the defensive the entire time. The enemy god can send an occasional natural disaster 
 your way, which will force you to rebuild defenses, as well as anything else that was torn down. 
 And while you can unlock a slew of new buildings over the course of the game, there's a certain 
 point where you've unlocked pretty much everything and you're  still  building duplicates of what 
 you've built before.     

  The other route to victory, war, isn't much quicker, though. You need time to build up the infrastructure 
 and the platoons, as well as to whittle down the enemy's defenses. The battles in Black &amp; White 
 2 can be epic in size, as you can hurl hundreds of soldiers into the fray. However, the tactics 
 available to you are fairly basic and combat has a few quirks to it. Swordsmen slam together in 
 a wild melee and run around hacking at each other. And occasionally platoons have the abilities 
 to run through your walls, which can be galling when it happens. Unfortunately, the artificial 
 intelligence is generally passive for most of the game, and it's content to send units at you piecemeal. 
 In fact, it'll often camp units outside of your walls, within range of your archers, so that they 
 can cut your archers down. This can be helpful to you, however, as victories grant your units experience 
 to level up to become hardier and more powerful. Yet even with veteran units, you'll find that 
 platoons pale in comparison to some of your godly abilities, such as the ability to hurl huge fireballs 
 at them. And they're at a huge disadvantage to your creature.  

          Warfare is quick and messy, and you can raise huge armies and send them into battle.   
   

  The creature is your animal avatar in the game (you can choose from a cow, lion, ape, or wolf) , 
 and, like a pet, you "teach" it through reward (petting) and punishment (slapping) . Since the creature 
 is powered by a sophisticated AI, it slowly develops its own personality over time, and it can 
 become almost obsessive-compulsive in its behavior. Not only that, but the creature "morphs" its 
 appearance depending on its experience and environment. The more "evil" a creature behaves, the 
 darker and more sinister its appearance, and vice versa. Or if your creature is a glutton, it'll 
 become fat. Likewise, if it's a workout fiend, it'll become buff. The creature can be trained to 
 become a lethal killing machine, or it can become a caretaker for your people, helping them gather 
 crops, construct buildings, and entertain them. It can also be endowed with magical abilities of 
 its own, such as the ability to cast lightning bolts, or to magically water fields, or heal wounded 
 units.  

  Used properly, the creature can be your must powerful military unit. A well-trained creature can 
 crush platoons of swordsmen, and it's fun to see it wipe out enemy units or knock down the walls 
 of a city. About the only real threats to the creature are massed archers, as well as a rival creature. 
 Creature-versus-creature face-offs can be both thrilling and frustrating, depending on which side 
 of the beating your creature is on. (If your creature falls in battle, it'll "resurrect" itself 
 automatically within a few minutes at your base.)  

  It's a lot easier to train the creature in Black &amp; White 2, because now you can see what it 
 is thinking. This allows you to preempt any bad habits that you don't want it to pick up. For example, 
 a bored creature can get into all sorts of trouble, and sometimes its idea of "playing" with your 
 people involves picking up heavy objects (its giant teddy bear) and throwing the objects at them. 
 In Black &amp; White, you had to see this behavior first before you could correct it, and you were 
 never quite sure if the creature was learning the correct lesson. Now, you know what your creature 
 plans to do, and you have immediate feedback as to whether it understands you. This gets at the 
 heart of what makes Black &amp; White 2 so different from its predecessor. One of the charms of 
 the original was that you didn't know what your creature was thinking. It was fun to just watch 
 the creature wander around and try to figure things out on its own, like a new puppy let loose 
 in the house for the first time. It created all sorts of unexpected moments, like when the creature 
 decided that it would rather eat your followers than pet them. Now that you can see your creature's 
 thoughts, it feels like you're constantly rewarding and punishing it, rather than letting it grow 
 and learn on its own. The emphasis in Black &amp; White 2 is no longer on patience, but rather 
 on getting results quickly. And while that will certainly appeal to gamers looking for more "structure," 
 it'll likely disappoint those who admired the original game for its slower pace.  

          The creature is the best defense against another creature, and the showdown can be brutal. 
     

  Aside from the city-building, real-time strategy, and creature-wrangling, Black &amp; White 2 also 
 presents some interesting puzzles that you can solve for tribute, which can be used to purchase 
 new powers and abilities. Some puzzles simply present you with a mystery that you must solve, such 
 as a strange sundial that requires you to manipulate the time of day in order to unlock its secrets. 
 Other puzzles are presented as an opportunity for divine intervention. For example, you can "assist" 
 a martial arts student in shattering stone plinths with his bare fist by punching the stone at 
 the same time. In another, you need to deal with a monster that is living in one of your peoples' 
 mines. These puzzles are an interesting diversion from the main game and can be quite challenging, 
 as well as rewarding, when you finally figure them out. You almost wish there were more puzzles 
 on each world, especially considering that the most powerful unlocks (the earthquake wonder, for 
 example) require a vast amount of tribute.  

  The production components on Black &amp; White 2 are generally outstanding, as you'd expect from 
 a big-budget strategy game. Graphically, this is a rich game with an incredible sense of scale. 
 You can zoom in close to the ground to see the individual blades of grass and insects crawling 
 around, then pull the camera up to the stratosphere and look down on the land. The environments 
 themselves are scenic and beautiful, and from afar they look like emerald jewels floating in sparkling 
 blue oceans. Black &amp; White 2 takes advantage of lots of fancy new graphical effects, such as 
 depth of field, which blurs objects in the distance, as well as realistic (and fuzzy) fur on your 
 creatures. Other than a few minor graphical artifacts, the game is pretty much blemish-free. Black 
 &amp; White 2 can also tax the latest hardware with all the graphical eye candy turned on and an 
 army of hundreds battling onscreen. Thankfully, the game still looks good at lower detail levels, 
 so you aren't losing much if you tone down the visuals. Meanwhile, the sound effects are like you'd 
 expect, and there's some solid voice acting, particularly when it comes to your angel and devil 
 advisers.  

          The sense of scale remains impressive in Black &amp; White 2, and the graphics are almost 
 serene.     

  When you get down to it, how you felt about the original Black &amp; White will determine how you 
 feel about Black &amp; White 2. If you felt like Black &amp; White needed more structure and "gameplay" 
 to it, then you'll likely appreciate the changes. However, if you enjoyed the freestyle nature 
 of the original, you may be dismayed by some of the new features of the sequel. And if you've never 
 played Black &amp; White, you'll find an original and refreshing strategy game with excellent production 
 values and a fairly unique style of gameplay. After all, how many city-building, real-time strategy, 
 virtual pet games can you think of?     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (382 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: L0s3rx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 6:24 am PT
Review:  For some reason, we have always been curious about what it would be like if we could be God for 
 one day. I think this is about as close as you can get as far as video games come. Black and White 
 2 drops you into the game as a recently-awoken deity, roused by a "pure prayer" into action. You 
 are first prompted to pick a creature, your physical extension of your will in the game. You have 
 the choice between a wolf, lion, cow, and monkey. Each of them can be as good or evil as you raise 
 them to be, and they will do whatever you ask of them, even disturbing things such as eating their 
 own poo. Disgusting, but some of the open-ended nature of the game comes out in little tidbits 
 such as this. As it zooms you through a brief tutorial, you learn more about being good and evil 
 (which is self-explanatory, obviously, but certain minuscule things have effects as well, such 
 as pulling up trees and such) and also tells you about side-quests that can be completed as you 
 progress through each "land" which can also be called a level, if one wished. After this land, 
 you are dropped into a war between your people, the Greeks, and an invading Aztec army. The Aztecs 
 have crushed your armies and you must save as many people as you possibly can by putting them into 
 portals. And then the true city-building aspect starts. This game is very realistic in terms of 
 food supply, demand, and housing. When it says that you have a thousand inhabitants, there really 
 are one thousand little simulated people walking around your city and each of them have needs and 
 wants.
  
  One of the first, most notable things about Black and White 2 are the graphics. The graphics are 
 stunningly beautiful, from the shimmering of the water and the shining of the sun to the way the 
 trees subtly glow in the moonlight and the way the grass shifts underneath your hand as you brush 
 it from side to side. Everything in the game suggests that it is, in fact, a living, breathing 
 world which you are either to cultivate or conquer. In all, Black and White 2 is one of the best, 
 and unique it may be said, games that this reviewer has played in a very long time, and it is one 
 of the most fondly remembered franchises in this one's history. It would be recommended to anyone 
 who enjoys video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gormo4
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2009 8:12 am PT
Review:  Black and white 2 is a game were you are God, at the starty of the game you save a small amount 
 of people out of a Greek city which is being attacked by aztecs.
  In the first hour you will be baffled by tutorials and your conscience telling you what to do.
 
  Your conscience is made up of 2 people, the devil and the angelic old man.
  They're both funny well voiced characters who pop up on your screen every now and again to give 
 you advice.
  
  You starty of on a small island and eventually progress onto different islands.
  At the very 
 beggening you also choose a creature who you can help grow and train to do as you will (you get 
 a choice of a lion, wolf, cow and the monkey) they grow into how you train them.. for example, 
 if you make them be good they will appear to be gentle and cute, if you make them evil then they 
 turn into rough and hellish looking creatures ;)
  
  You must influence your villagers by putting them in certain places to do certain job.
  For example: 
 when you drop a villager in a field he becomes a farmer and will be until he dies.
  You can also apply jobs for breeders, builders, woodcutters, miners and refiners.
  
  There's 
 also a stratergy side to the game, at some time you need to build an army to defend your city, 
 or if your feeling evil, to attack other cities.
  Altough it is dissaponting it still adds a god like feeling to you whilst playing the game.
  
 It's dissapointing because your soldiers just run up to the enemy soldiers and either all die, 
 or all survive.. or so it seems at points.
  
  Graphics are nice, and altough I had laggish cut scenes even though I had way beyond the reccomend 
 specs I could still understand what was going on.
  
  Music is a bit apocolyptic/classical, it's a strange mix but does add to the great heavenly atmosphere.
 
  
  I gave black and white 2 a 7.5 because it's a good game but once you have played with everything 
 (which took me about 30 hours) then your likely to just forget about it and put it down.
  
  I hope this review has helped, thanks for reading!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo077
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game go buy it. Its way better than the last game it could be a bit funner but the creature 
 makes up for that loss also the morality issues in the game are incredible if I were a real critic 
 i would definitely give this game and 9 out of 10. The last installment in the series was terrible 
 everything sucked but this second installment is like a totally new game everything is just about 
 perfect. It adresses most of its former issues and there are very few menus in the game making 
 it alot easier to play. The spells or "miracles" have been totally upgraded making them fantastically 
 epic and realistic. I strongly suggest you buy this game. The armies are INCREDIBLE you can create 
 massive armies and have them lay siege to enemy walls and destroy enemy towns, villages, cities, 
 and etc. Even your creature can join in the fighting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyDice17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Black and White 2 delivers a pretty good, god simulator in my opinion, with a lot of great scenery, 
 provided your video card can handle the highest settings. I found the tedious aspects from the 
 first one toned down a bit, while adding a bunch of new things such as town defenses. However I 
 felt I had too put a little to much DIRECT control on my people, as though I was the town foreman, 
 as apposed to spending time being god. The avatar\pet required a little more attention then I wanted 
 to give some times, but I was amazed at how much personality it had, and how it grew emotional 
 as well as physically. The spells and godly capabilities are nothing short then... well, godly. 
 All in all, I find the game very enjoyable, and quite capable of keeping me snacking for hours, 
 instead of having a meal at the dinner table. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rigelblack
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Black & White was one of my first games in the genre, and I was in love with it for months, downloading 
 new maps for skirmish, playing on-line and defeating the annoying Nemesis. Good times.
  When the sequel was announced, I upgraded my computer just for it. I was really looking forward 
 to play.
  
  When I first get the game, first deception comes in: "Oh, where are the skirmish and on-line modes?"
 
  When I started to play, a second deception: "No other gods? Hum, ok, we have the tribe leaders, 
 they somehow have epic miracles and creatures... So, fine. Besides, some time latter, "Battle 
 of Gods" was announced, and this problem got half solved. (Just one God, though. I kind of missed 
 the whole allies and enemies from B&W 1, and the suspense, "last boss" feel that Nemesis had. Actually, 
 the whole plot is better and more exciting at the original game.)
  Despite this, the gameplay is a little better on my opinion. The "menu bar" makes it easy to select 
 buildings and miracles, the new army system is really cool, too.
  The creature graphics are also amazing, if you compare it to B&W 1.
  
  I've covered the pro's 
 and con's. Now I'm entering in a neutral zone. 
  What I mean is, some people will like this and some, like me, will hate it.
  The game is much 
 more easy than before. The logic puzzles where mostly replaced for "arcade" mini-games (no more 
 fun on the tree puzzle, guys.) , which, by the way, are not entertaining at all to me. (Found myself 
 just skipping all silver scrolls after some time.) . 
  It's also really easy to be the Good-guy, unlike at the original, where you had your influence 
 ring and had to figure out how to impress towns outside it (including without your creature at 
 a certain point) . It was challenging, and I loved it. Now you can just mind your own business and 
 other towns will eventually come to you. No multiple-village administration needed, no actual effort 
 needed.
  
  So, this is my opinion on this one. "I like the first one better" was my overall reaction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Demii
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 12:32 pm PT
Review:  In Black & White 2 you'll start having to learn every basic principle of the game, wether you like 
 it or not. I think gamers who did Black & White might want to skip this, but that's impossible. 
 Since I haven't played it's prequel, the tutorial was nice.
  
  So, after that tutorial, there's also a tutorial level. Once you're done with that, the game will 
 take you to Greece, which should be filled with people worshipping you, but is in fact filled with 
 bloodthirsty Aztecs. So, while they try to murder your entire population, you try to save some 
 people. Then you'll take this people to a new land, and the real game starts. 
  
  In this first level, you'll be taught how to play the game, in it's strategic way. This part is 
 actually boring, since you can see your creature sleeping, and you can't wait for it to wake up. 
 Once it does though, Black & White 2's strong point does too. The interaction with your creature, 
 and all the possibilities of it make this game great. If you'd take the creature out of it, which 
 is what happens in the first 2 levels of the game, the game would be nothing more than average. 
 
  
  The creature will just roam free, helping or tormenting your population, based on how you react 
 on it's thought bubbels. For instance, in the first level your creature will pick up a villager, 
 planning to eat it. You can either pet it, which makes it eat the villager and thus become evil, 
 or hit your creature, which makes it put the villager down and thus become good. You can also give 
 your creature a certain task, for example to behave as if it were a soldier, or a builder. However, 
 leaving it with one of these assignments for too long will rob the creature of it's free will. 
 
  
  Your creature's look will also change depending on it's allignment. If you train it to be extremely 
 good, it will become a beautiful creature with a golden aura. In reverse, if you train it to be 
 extremely evil, it will grow a dark fur, glowing red eyes, fierce teeth and claws etc. 
  
  So, in the end, your pet saves the day in Black & White 2, for if it was taken out, you'd just 
 be left with a mediocre strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiger034
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  The first black and white was awesome. The second one is similar but with so many of the crappy 
 parts of the first one taken away. It's really amazing. I really enjoy playing it, I love the graphics. 
 It's very entertaining. It's kind of difficult though. It may be hard for some newbie players. 
 But this game is pretty one of my favorite games, I enjoy playing it and I think other people should 
 try it. The only thing i hate is a few minor bugs. But besides that, its a incredible game, I think 
 people should buy it. I can see other people enjoying it too....... but you don't have to buy it, 
 I just strongly suggest it. I haven't played the expansion yet but i'm getting around too buying 
 it. I hope it's really awesome as well as this. Its probably close just new stuff. So I would give 
 it like a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lionman363
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Hi there, thanks for taking your time to read this review and if you can, try checking out some 
 of my other reviews, I'll accept all sorts of positive feedback, now lets get on with it.
  
  (Skip the first part if you are familiar with the original game.)
  
  Black & White 2 is 
 basically a mix of an RTS with Sim City and a touch of Age Of Mythology, and you get this! You 
 gain the awesome power of a god, a creature who will mature according to your actions and you can 
 choose to be a peaceful and loving god, or one who relies on evil and warfare.
  
  Black & White 2 adds plenty of new features to the game, some features that should have been included 
 in the prequel. You can now build armies to take over towns by force and to quarrel with your enemy. 
 You can recruit infantry, archers or catapults, each with their own advantages and disadvantages. 
 There is a larger variety of miracles to be used, which can be used after you have generated enough 
 mana for it, you need an alter to generate mana. The graphics have improved, but the majority of 
 graphics cards on XP or 2000 will be too weak to run it, therefore the graphics may not look as 
 good as they are in the screenshots or videos, but its worth buying a new graphics card for. (Unless 
 you prefer good performance instead of visuals.) A new Tribute system has been included which allows 
 you to buy new buildings, upgrades for you and your creature and miracles, tribute can be earned 
 by completing objectives.
  
  Now the thing about Black & White 2 is that its fun and very addictive, there is a ton to do and 
 much of the gameplay has improved, but that doesn't mean that its 'perfect' and it isn't even nearly 
 as good as it looked in the teaser trailers. You start off as a Greek god who has been summoned 
 from 'The Void' which is where all the other gods are stuck. The Greeks were the strongest and 
 most advanced civilisation on the planet, but their main capital and many other of their lands 
 were pillaged and conquered by the Aztecs who wanted power. The total letdown is that there are 
 no other gods in the game, each tribe is led by a leader who makes every decision, the majority 
 of the tribes have a creature, sadly the enemy creature's Ai is lacking. Creature fights are still 
 around, but aren't as much fun to spectate as the prequel's. Your creature won't learn his skills 
 or miracles from you, you need to purchase them from the Tribute menu, while you need to teach 
 him everything else. You can scold or praise your creature for what he does, which will affect 
 his alignment towards good or evil, his appearance will also change as his alignment changes. There 
 are 7 lands to play on, including one tutorial land, the first few lands are as simple as smearing 
 butter with a sword, but the difficulty raises once you reach the Japanese lands. There are two 
 ways to achieve victory, you can build lovely and impressive cities to convince your foes to leave 
 their tribe and join yours or you can recruit armies and take over their towns by force. Raising 
 an army takes up a large amount of the male population (except for disciples) and warriors eat 
 twice the normal rate of food, so you need to keep an eye on your stores, you can however win through 
 a mixture of war and peace.
  
  You will be assigned two advisors to help you during your time as a god, an evil and peaceful advisor, 
 you can heed or ignore their advice but they can turn out to be very useful in sticky situations. 
 As your town grows their needs will increase, you need to keep a steady income of food, wood and 
 ore for construction, without food the population will not be able to breed, resulting in a decline 
 of population, you will also need to construct enough houses for your people, otherwise they will 
 have nowhere to sleep resulting in a decline of labour. You will need large population to gather 
 resources, recruit soldiers and for construction, so you may have to recruit disciples. This can 
 be done by grabbing a villager and dropping him next to a particular resource or foundation. You 
 can recruit all sorts of disciples who will continue to work unless you give them another job. 
 Villagers who have not been assigned the role of a disciple will do as they please, they will work 
 where and when they want to.
  
  Although the game is fun, there are a few issues with it that could put you off unless you can 
 easily forgive games for having errors. The camera can be a bugger to control, the camera can only 
 be controlled by using your god hand, so navigation can be sluggish. Lionhead and EA have still 
 failed to provide a skirmish mode for Black & White and multiplayer has been removed. Glitches 
 are widespread, including the denial of physics, there are also way too many hazards that could 
 screw up your chances of victory. (Unless you like a challenge.)
  
  Overall, Black & White 2 has its flaws but is still a fun game and fans of the first game will 
 be pleased.
  
  :) :
  Graphics are great.
  There is a lot to do.
  City building is always a joy in this game.
  
  : (:
  Not quite as good as the original.
 
  Its riddled with glitches and graphic lag.
  The camera can be sometimes be an annoyance to control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hookman100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  At first it may seem a bit slow and boring but once you get past the tutorial sections it can suck 
 you in more than any FPS ever can. You can tell Lionhead put a lot of effort into most of the game. 
 It has a strange ability to be hard and easy at the same time. The game could have been better 
 with some additions such as a sandbox mode or choice of storyline. 
  
  For those who dont know the storyline you play as the god of the ancient Greeks. The Aztecs attack 
 the Greek city and demolish it. After that you have to build your civilisation back up to get your 
 revenge on the Aztecs.
  Along the way you are helped by the two seperate sides of your consience. Good and Evil (hence the 
 title) . You can choose to be an evil dictator who takes over citys by force or you can choose to 
 be a huggy, huggy lovey sunshiney god who gets people to join him by impressing them.
  
  Basically Black and White 2 is just a fun game. Its great fun to mess around with your creature. 
 You get a choice between a lion, wolf, monkey and a... cow? Anyway you can choose wether theyre good 
 or evil, strong or weak, cutesy pie or badass!
  
  The game is so addicting once you get into it.
  The only real problem I have is that if you dont 
 have a good enough computer you will find a lot of graphical errors, glitchs and it can get annoying
 
  In the end, its a fun game, pick it up and I guarantee you will enjoy yourself, or your money back (not 
 really) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_To_The_C
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 27, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Not many people know, but when Lionhead Studios was creating the original Black and White, they 
 envisioned a game with minimal to no on-screen buttons, icons, etc. The whole game was to be controlled 
 with clicks and motions with the cursor, the screen clear of notes and bubbles, and fans loved 
 this.
  
  Black and White 2 completely turned this concept around. When playing it, I felt that I was playing 
 the Sims. Mood icons flashing every which way, thought bubbles constantly emitting from my creature. 
 It just ruined the whole thing. My monitor was constantly crowded with detestable notes, which 
 Lionhead unfortunately made necessary to play the game correctly.
  
  Secondly, there's not as much freedom in this second game as there was in the original. Each level 
 starts with one single task - building up your village to stability before the enemy attacks. It 
 can take hours to finally create a village that can fend for itself, and there's a new aspect in 
 this game - you have to make the layout of buildings look perfect, or your villagers will be unhappy. 
 After completing your village and taking over the surrounding country (which I often found that 
 happened already while I was building, so I wasn't able to enjoy it) you are finally free to explore 
 and do side-quests, of which many were unsatisfying. Eventually, you move on to the next land to 
 rinse, lather, and repeat.
  
  To continue, the creature is quite a bit different in this game. It's use early in the game starts 
 very minimal, so it's difficult to really get into the concept of him even being there. The challenge 
 of training him is also gone, as Black and White 2 now comes with a convenient list of it's actions 
 and thoughts, which you can scroll through and choose which to encourage or discourage.
  
  There are also a lot of unnecessary new features with the buildings. For instance, one has to keep 
 building new village stores, as they now have a maximum limit. To go along with this, there are 
 also a wide variety of new buildings that your villagers will be unhappy without, but you will 
 be unhappy having to build them all. Retirement homes, schools, the list goes on. Plus, the villagers 
 in this game spawn like rabbits, resulting in the need to constantly expand.
  
  Battle was a high aspect of this game, and everyone looked forward to it. The only problem is, 
 each time you find yourself in a land shared by an aggressive nation, you're being attacked with 
 soldiers, hurricanes, and more while you're only just starting out with a minimal number of villagers 
 and houses. The difficulty of trying to maintain and build up a civilization that is actually able 
 to fight back against the enemy while you're trying to survive countless onslaughts is maddening.
 
  
  Finally, the graphics. One would think that the look of the land would be infinitely superior in 
 the sequel. Wrong. The landscape actually looked very fake and spongy compared to its former self.
 
  
  Supposedly, this game wouldn't be bad for players who never played the original. But for the veterans, 
 I would stay away from it. It's just too painful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrbongos
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I'd played the original Black and White, and it was amazing. And now with a PC with the gumption 
 to run B&W 2, I'm flabbergasted by the improvements they made.
  
  First off. The people in your tribe are good smattering more intelligent, while they -don't- construct 
 buildings on their own, something that was handy in the first game, they instead stop breeding 
 like rabbits when they're almost out of living space. They'll mine, farm, tend to livestock, and 
 cut wood more adeptly than the original... oh rather than the first time round, they won't deforest 
 the entire swath of woodlands nearby, rather they'll rotate where they cut from, so that the original 
 choppin' ground has time to regrow. 
  
  They'll only go nuts on livestock and grain when there is a food shortage.... and lets not forget 
 ARMIES! With the addition of the Creature stomping, lightening, and fire balling every enemy in 
 sight. 
  
  The idea of building impressive cities rather than throwing rocks, sending flocks of birds/bats, 
 and setting nurseries on fire to convince other cities to come believe in you is fantabulous, along 
 with the tribute system, and the easy access tab for miracles, that lets you stock up multiple 
 fireballs for a fireworks show... Holy crap.
  
  I'm normally long winded, but with this, all I need to say is: Play the game. You will feel joyous. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenHell666
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 13, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  This game tries to be an RTS + Some sort of Civilization/"Tycoon"; and it fails in both.
  
  On the first missions it's fun to create your village and to take anothers (that almost don't fight 
 back) ;
  but as you go further you discover the real issues of this game.
  
  The controls are terrible, most of the time you click twice/trice ... just to "force" your units 
 to do what they are told, and they get stuck on the terrain and are all wasted by enemies hordes.
 
  
  You can try to an attack of army + titan beast, and then you find out there is no macro to the 
 beast, only the leash key, that makes the creature act worst than you armies, when the creature 
 finally gets to the enemies, lots of your soldiers are dead.
  
  There are no custom macros for your military units, they are spawned with a macro you can't change, 
 you can merge military units though; you can also link military units ... but that also to makes 
 them work in a unexpectd manner.
  
  When these issues come out the champaign mission get really stupid, the enemy towns just spawn 
 soldiers and shoot hurricanes or earthquakes at you without having to get resources of developt 
 their towns 
  (their beast and soldiers are stronger than yours too) 
  and this mind numbling loop goes on and on until you need 6 hours to win the mission.
  
  The 
 controls are broken, the AI makes it worse and the missions are so stupid that there's no real 
 challenge.
  
  Go play Age of Empires 3, Mythologies, Civilization or something else ... but don't waste your 
 time with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisf45678
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Black and White 2 is... a great city/village builder. It has some nice moments... fun mini games... 
 and it's really hard to come up with anything else about it. That's it really.
  There's not anything that really pops out about this game. It gets boring. You do the same thing 
 in every level. Build a village, recruit an army, defeat the enemy. OR build a vibrant city and 
 make enemy join you. WOW. OMG. What a game... Woohoo! 
  The story is good though. The AI in the creatures is almost revolutionary. In fact it's in the 
 Guinness Book. I forgot what year though.
  Black and White 2 also comes with an expansion which adds more depth to a lacking game. ZOMBIES! 
 Which is cool, don't get me wrong. Although it doesn't seem to really fit in the Black and White 
 universe anyway.
  Without this expansion, the game to me at least would be... blah. The expansion is more fun than 
 the actual game. 
  And that's pretty much all I have to say about Black and White 2... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ethanlbell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Black And White 2, A game where you play as a god who is good or evil as you feel fit, where you 
 are worshipped by the peasants and it is your job to ensure the other races obedience to you wether 
 by good acts or bad. Oh, and did I mention you get a creature too? Although the basis deep down 
 is similar to Black And White, so many new innovations make it seem like a completely different 
 game. Yes you play as a god, yes you have miracles, yes you even still have your creature (with 
 a MUCH improved control mechanism, (a minor flaw of Black And White,) for the creature) but without 
 enemy gods. It is you as a god in a godless world up against the races. While the addition of military 
 units add much more to making this an excellent strategy game, the major development, was the ability 
 to convert enemy villages by impressing them, not with miracles or gifts as in the first game, 
 but with building impressive buildings such as a bath-house, or a coliseum. The gameplay was phenomenal, 
 the plot, superb, the game with all settings on max, intricate, the length of the game... small, 
 and without the skirmish section that was available in the first game, once you beat the game three 
 or four times, you become bored with it pretty quickly. All in all, in excellent game, if a little 
 on the short side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earl_hickey
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  A very nice followup for the first black and white but not as good. Though the ability to build 
 armys and use wonders is very nice, it complicated the game a little too much for my doing. but 
 besides the increase in complication it is a game that if you have played the first B&W and liked 
 it, definitly worth a try, all of the extras that are now in the game make it a fun game. if striking 
 lightning into little skeletons, slaying entire civilazations, controlling giant creatures and 
 having control over mother nature is the thing for you then i recommend running to the nearest 
 game shop and buying this game, but if you like saving innocent people, raise a cute pet turtle 
 and collect resources, or feel like doing a good deed, this might still be the game for you
  
  Black & White 2 = Not bad at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beaugita
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Great game. I haven't played the first game so I couldn't really say much about the improvements. 
 There seems to be a lack of units. You get to choose if you want to be an evil or good god. Yes 
 you play a god in the game Black & White 2. That may offend some people, but that's the way it 
 is. There is only a story mode which may be upsetting to some people. There is no skirmish mode 
 or any other modes to play when you just want to have fun. The battles can be really great on this 
 game. Even though there aren't many units, it can still be amazing. There's mostly just swordsmen, 
 archers and siege machines, but you can find other units that are only available by completing 
 some kind of side mission. Undead swordsmen are one of the units that appear only from side quests. 
 If you really want to increase the enemy's death toll in battle, you can send out your creature 
 to pummel them to the ground. There are these interesting structures called miracles which can 
 also really change the course of battle. It's basically a structure that's capable of casting magic. 
 Some types of miracles can summon up a volcano. Others can cause an earthquake. There are several 
 different kinds of creatures that you pick from at the beginning of the game. Each creature is 
 different in it's own way so you have to choose one that fits your personality too. Some of the 
 creatures that you can choose from are the ape, lion and cow. Mine is the ape. Your creature can 
 also be good or evil depending on what they do. If you allow your creature to kill people and destroy 
 structures then they will be more evil and they will appear so as well. If you make your creature 
 help the people and do good things then it will be good and will appear that way too. Your creature 
 will grow and learn as you advance through the game. One main element of the game is researching 
 things. There's almost no way you will do great at the game unless you spend your tribute to get 
 new structures available and increase the ability of your creature. The way you build walls is 
 really nice too. Basically you click on the wall structure, then you click and drag to form the 
 wall. Once done forming the shape of the wall, you pick up (or have your villagers pick up) ore. 
 You take the ore and drop it on top of the frame of the wall which then forms into the wall. You 
 can even curve the wall in circles which is handy if you don't want your town to be in a perfect 
 square. You can get huge armies, but the army you create is taken out of your villagers. If you 
 make an army of 100 then you will be taking 100 male villagers away from your town. You can actually 
 force women to become a soldier, but what's the point? You can take other settlements by force 
 or take them by impressiveness. Basically to take a town by impressiveness, you build your city 
 up really big and build structures that are more useful to the villagers than they are to you. 
 By doing that people from the other settlements will come to your settlement. After you've taken 
 all of their villagers, you take their settlement. I have never gotten this to work against large 
 settlements though. The weather system on this game is really good. They have all different types 
 of weather and just because it rains on one side of the island does not mean it will on the other 
 side which gives the game a more realistic feel. In total, you journey across 9 islands and battle 
 against 5 tribes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Last_Ride
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  This game had a lot of good elements which i liked a lot to the game. I can start off with the 
 tutorial which i think is only necessary the first time and not everytime you start off a new game. 
 There also should have been a type of skirmish element in this game, because not everyone likes 
 to play just campaign everytime they play this game. The graphics are okay, but not to bad either, 
 and the meneuvaring across the landscape. The principes of the game are quite cool choosing between 
 being good or evil. The game has a good ground thought, but there is something that isn't there 
 to make the game up there with the best games on the market. But it is a fun game nonetheless and 
 you can enjoy this game for many hours. And this is a game that should be played if you played 
 the first game in this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirko4444
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  I'll start out saying this: Black and White 2 is a jack of all trades, and a master of none. If 
 you're looking for an excellent, in-depth strategy game, BW2 may not be for you. If you're looking 
 for a replacement for your last city-building game, you may want to move along. If you're looking 
 for a pet sim, keep looking. If you are looking for a game that blends the three magnificently, 
 however, you may just want to give BW2 a try.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Wow. Just wow. The graphics in this game are stunning. From the amazing-looking ocean, to the eruption 
 of a volcano, to the hair of your creature, everything looks awesome, at least for a game in which 
 you spend most of your time with the camera away from all the detail. The attention to detail is 
 great. Grass sways as you move your god-hand through it, ants crawl around on the ground, and soldiers 
 gather around and practice swordfighting, or sit around campfires if left idle for too long. Flowers 
 grow in the fields as a good god, and your buildings are white and covered in plantlife. Cracks 
 of lava cover the land of an evil god, and thorny vines grow around your buildings.
  
  One thing to note, is that strangely, the game doesn't allow you to fully configure the graphics 
 through it's menu. If it *thinks* your graphic card can't handle some features (namely, much of 
 the stuff listed above) , then you can't enable it in-game. You'll have to dig through a text file 
 in the BW folder.
  
  One minor thing that bugged me was that sometimes when fighting, creatures would seem to be in 
 one place, ut actually be in another. This led to scenarios such as a creature looking as if he 
 is attacking the air ten yards away from what he was actually hitting.
  
  SOUND:
  Nothing but great things to say about this as well. Zoom into a tavern and hear patrons chattering 
 and cups clinking (or perhaps some music if the place is full enough) . Toss a water miracle on 
 some trees and get close so you can listen to them creak as they grow rapidly. Zoom way out and 
 the wind howls deafeningly.
  
  The voice acting on some of the characters wasn't up to par though. Nothing horribly, laughably 
 bad, but it isn't great. At least your advisors sound good, who you'll be hearing from the most.
 
  
  STORY:
  This could have used some work. Minor spoilers ahead.
  You play as a god, summoned to aid the Greek people against the Aztecs, which destroyed their civilization 
 and left only a few survivors. The various characters in the game rattle on about a prophecy in 
 which a weak people become strong with help of a god, blah, blah, blah. Pretty cliche and not very 
 exciting, to say the least.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The meat of any review. As stated before, Black and White is a mixture of various genres. You play 
 as a god, and the choice of playing good or evil affects your gameplay greatly.
  
  Playing as a good god, most of your time is spent in your city, improving and expanding. If your 
 city is impressive enough, the people of your enemies will convert and migrate to your town, leaving 
 their old one deserted. The playstyle is ery "sim-city" like, constantly caring for the needs of 
 your people and planning out your town, and occasionally defending against an attack (not a difficult 
 task with even the most basic of offensive miracles and your creature) .
  
  The people of your city aren't just a statistic. You see them walking around, doing their day-to-day 
 chores. They work, they play, they sleep, age, and they have children, which grow up to do the 
 same. Villagers will automatically work on whatever the town needs the most at the moment, or you 
 can assign them tasks. I have noticed that as your city get more and more crowded, the people get 
 confused, and sometimes end up in giant bunches of people who sit in one spot and do nothing, no 
 matter what you try.
  
  Playing as an evil god, the game turns into an RTS. Your cities are there only to produce troops, 
 and the needs of it's inhabitants are neglected. You can even throw them around and such if you'd 
 like. Your main goal is to get out and conquer enemy towns. The RTS side of the game isn't very 
 in-depth, as there are only 4 types of fighting units (that come in a few different visual flavors) .
 
  
  The first is swordsmen, which tear up archers but are creature food. The second are archers, which 
 are decent against swordsmen if they have swordsmen of their own protecting them, but are chewed 
 up when attacked. Archers also take out creatures with ease. The third is the catapult, which is 
 mainly useful for assaulting cities, and doesn't fare well against any type of unit. The last is 
 a creature, which can easily stomp over melee troops but dies quickly to archers. Frustratingly, 
 your creature has miracles which he could use to easily dispatch groups of archers (such as a fireball) , 
 but almost never uses them, and you can't tell him to. The creature AI in battle isn't that great 
 at all, really - you'll often see it standing around doing nothing for a few seconds in between 
 attacks, or taking 10 seconds to grab a rock and throw it at a single soldier.
  
  Despite it's simplicity, the RTS side is actually pretty fun, although fairly easy if you make 
 sure your units are covered from their counters. Some of the missions throw some cool stuff at 
 you, especially the final one.
  
  As a god, you have many interesting powers yourself. You move about using your "god-hand", which 
 you use to interact with the world. You can clench your fist and start punching things around, 
 or pick up a rock and toss it at a building (which crumbles fairly realistically) . You can pick 
 up trees, and use them to construct buildings, among other things. You can also cast miracles, 
 each of which has a different use. There are a few basic miracles, such as a water miracle to grow 
 fields/trees, or put out fires. There's a meteor miracle, which rains down a violent shower of 
 flaming rocks on your foes. There are also "epic" miracles, which require a LARGE amount of "tribute" 
 (currency) , wood, and ore to construct, and a ton of time for your people to worship to be able 
 to cast it. They are pretty amazing. My favorite would be the volcano, which raises the land around 
 the casting point into a large mountain, which then starts spewing lava which flows down realistically, 
 burning all in it's path.
  
  Last of all is your creature. At the beginning of the game, you pick from a baby lion, ape, wolf, 
 or cow (add in tiger if you pre-ordered or got the special edition) . Your creature is a curious 
 being, and experiments with stuff all the time. You can reward or punish his behavior to increase/decrease 
 the likelyhood of doing it again developing his personality. If you teach him to be do things such 
 as gather supplies, entertain villagers, and water fields, he'll start to turn into a friendly, 
 white beast. If you train him to eat villagers, destroy your enemies, and burn down forests, he'll 
 gradually turn black and fierce-looking.
  
  CLOSING:
  BW2 is a great game, but it isn't for everyone. What I've noticed most is that it suffers from 
 a lack of polish in some areas, and that it includes some horrible bugs (although the recent patch 
 has fixed a lot of it) . The game is unplayable by many people for this reason. I, myself, encountered 
 a pretty bad one awhile back - my creature was deleted and replaced with a brand-new lion at the 
 start of every map.
  
  Despite the bugs, BW2 is a lot of fun. I'm confident that most will enjoy it - everyone I've showed 
 it to has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon6786
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Yea wow you can be a god and do stuff.. and stuff SHOULD be fun right? well this game sucks.
  
  WORSE than the first which well.. sucked too. Youd figure that since your a god.. youd make 
 the rules and run how you want it.. correct? well.. too damn bad cuz you get two little dudes (one 
 high off his ass hippie good guy and one flabby red evil guy) That tell you what to do and how 
 to do it. THEN you got other gods to worry about, and you cant just go over there, cuss them out 
 for stealing your villages and burn their temple and slaughter their ppl like I would do if I was 
 a god! NO! you have to be GOOD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenaciousAds
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  BEST PC GAME EVER and if you think different i condem you to hell. Creatures rule. It's great because 
 you can do whatever you want and no one cares evil or good no one can stop you. Look out on second 
 Norse land for the man near the sea who can't die. Any one can enjoy this game no matter what age. 
 Great story line and Graphics especially the wars sadly i couldn't put pics in the reveiw check 
 my profile for some and if you want a good game i recommend it especially if you have a great graphic 
 card. but i swear its a great game. It is a tough game in places but you'll pull through one thing 
 is that when your villagers get annoyed it drives you insane i punched my printer once even though 
 i only got the game on staurday i think it is great it lagges in a few places just lower screen 
 sizes and you can have a great time playing with no lages.
  
  Comments appreciated Tenaciousads 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neverness
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 10, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  Maybe I am just not the target audience for Black and White 2, but I found this game tedious and 
 rather dull. The reviews looked pretty good and I ran across it for $9.99 so I figured I might 
 as well try it.
  
  The game has you playing as a nameless deity in charge of the Greeks who have an arch nemesis in 
 the Aztecs (WTF?) . The game is pretty much fairly simplistic city building as you build your civilization 
 back up so you can take vengeance on the Aztecs (I conjecture as I only played about 3/4 of the 
 game before I lost interest) . A novelty of the game is your creature whom you can train to harvest 
 resources, eat villagers, attack enemies, and other actions that range from useful to just strange.
 
  
  Controls for the game are pretty easy but I found myself waiting around for things to happen most 
 of the time. You can build a nice city and just sit around and eventually other cities will pack 
 up and move to yours -- the so-called cultural conquest. Alternatively, you can make soldiers and 
 take cities by force. The computer basically just sits around and waits for you to come and attack 
 them. The only real challenge was finding the energy to sit and play the game.
  
  Sure the game is innovative and has some funny quirks but I just found it lacking substance and 
 ultimately appeal. I suppose I like games that are better fleshed out; the Black and White universe 
 is so kitschy I could never get into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarCowAlways
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't totally sure when I got this game for Christmas that I would be as in love with it as 
 I had hoped. Well, rest assured, this is a great game. Let's do pros and cons, shall we?
  
  Pros: Great graphics, good sound, world adjusts as you play, creature learns from what you tell 
 him to do and when you reward him or punish him, RTS gamesplay without the narrow range of fans, 
 the hand can do many things, unlockables make it very tempting to try goals, resources provide 
 an extra challenge
  
  Cons: AI is pretty stupid, three-songs-fit-all audio, some resources are a little too hard to find, 
 buildings have no interior other than the plainly visible parts, battles are... odd since AI is 
 rather dumb, creature tends to destroy occasionally when you don't want him to, tribute is hard 
 to gain, hand has no power outside your influence (border) , minor frame rate issues
  
  Don't be intimidated by the long cons list, this game is very fun and a great value. However, it 
 is plagued by stupid AI and some fairly small frame rate issues.
  
  Allow me to explain the pros:
  -This game has great image quality and lighting effects, and almost 
 always looks great even when zoomed in all the way. 
  -It also has some great music, which isn't too intrusive, and always keeps you in the right mood. 
 Now, the world moves around with you; you have your own area of influence in which you can move 
 trees, create miracles, build towns, and generally play with it in a sandbox way. 
  -Some things, like a gatehouse in a wall, will level the terrain beneath them in a very believable 
 way, so that the gatehouse isn't slanted or cut off.
  -Your creature can be trained the way you want, and ordered to do things (sleep, eat, throw something, 
 build, gather, workout, play with a toy, entertain villagers...) . He can also fight off enemies. 
 Now, the whole training system isn't all it's cracked up to be, since you just pet him until the 
 bar goes all the way in one direction (I'll never do this or I'll always do this) , and then he 
 just knows if he should do it.
  -The hand you control in the game can perform a wide assortment of tasks, ranging from miracles, 
 to throwing villagers, to assigning villagers jobs, to building your town.
  -Tribute is this games form of currency, but not in the way you'd probably suspect. Tribute is 
 earned by performing goals, or tasks, and is used to unlock houses, buildings, miracles, creature 
 abilities and more. This is the biggest thing to collect in this game.
  
  Here are the cons:
  -Now, this AI is stupid. Very stupid. This doesn't apply to normal villages, 
 but mostly to battles. I had a very hard to getting my troops to even move. Check this out: I had 
 a huge powerful wall set up, which was impossible to go around, right? So, I had enemies attack, 
 and, they first piled up into a one-man space- all fifteen- and then they walked straight through 
 the wall. My men were on the wall (archers) and right behind the wall (swordsman) , but did they 
 do anything? Even when I told them to attack? No. I actually defeated the few soldiers who ran 
 through. I used the pushing ability. I had about 50 men standing right behind the gates, and when 
 I said 'Attack' over and over again, they just stood there. So, my village was damaged and I ended 
 up killing the threat. Could they have at least attacked the ghost army? And, the other thirteen 
 of them seemed to run back home, but when I zoomed in, no-one was there. What the crap?! So, the 
 short answer is don't expect epic battles.
  -The songs are all orchestrated, but don't especially stand out. There are only a few of them, 
 as far as I know.
  -Food and sometimes the other two resources- ore and wood- are apparantly hard to find later on 
 in the game. When I was on the first real land (with the Norsemen) , near the end I was getting 
 huge bursts of evil points all the time because I couldn't feed my people fast enough. I had about 
 15 fields, and I constantly did water miracles and took the spoils, but they were dieing all the 
 time.
  -This might be a little dumb, but the buildings don't have any interior. It's just totally empty. 
 All the buildings' interior can be seen by just zooming in far enough for the camera to cut through 
 the object.
  -Your creature, though he might be 100% good like mine, will occasionally be found throwing villagers 
 and often killing them in the process. Anger issues?
  -Tribute can be hard to gain, since some goals require actual skill :)
  -Your hand has absolutely 
 no power outside your area of influence until you dominate the land.
  -The framerate can be a pig wading through sludge
  
  Finally, my final complaint is: I can't 
 even get past the mid-way point in the game. Yeah, kina big problem. Whenever I click the scroll, 
 and confirm, it starts loading, and then a minute later, it's crashed. Yeah. So, I've been building 
 up my land three.
  
  Overall, though therer are a multitude of small issues in this game, it's still easily recommendable 
 to anyone even remotely interested in RTS games. This game is very addictive and has a lot of playtime. 
 Now if only I could get past land three...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: giganx2
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is said to give you the power of God... if it does that God obviously isn't the God of 
 War! 
  
  The old elements of the game such as the control of your settlements and choising either to throw 
 people over mountains or give them wood and food is just as solid as ever. The new editions however 
 seem a little... well small. 
  
  The story is pretty much to the same quality as the last one but I would say it isn't quite as 
 good and the creature is almost the same. The creatures only main differences are first of all 
 it is easier to turn it good or evil and secondaly it is a war machine! 
  
  The games graphics are very, very good which makes it much nicer to play it even if the part of 
 the game i would most like to play is not so good. 
  
  What is this part of the game you ask? 
  It is the Army! Well the armies, taking the population 
 out of the town and making them take over settlements. 
  
  The problem is that... that is it! You can have some small battles and fight with your creature 
 if you want but basically you just send some troops in and either win or lose... no real strategy 
 involved whatsoever... This is understandable as the game is a God Game not a War game... but I would 
 have appreciated more advanced armies.
  
  In conclusion the game is very good and solid and has a lot of potential extra play if you do not 
 get bored of playing through the campaign missions constantly and enjoy creating cities out of 
 nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggleJUGGLER
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Black and White's concept is that your a god and you are sent to help rise a nation out of defeat 
 and back to glory. how you do it is up to you. kill thousands with your creature and army or convert 
 them by building beautiful cities and a booming economy. you are a hand and you can do all sorts 
 of thing like pick up people, lay foundations for building down, build building, perform miracles, lead 
 your armies and creature, and pick things up. you will face allot of unique people and creatures, 
 now all of that it good but, the problems seem just really stupid. there is no skirmish mode you 
 can't pick your race and sometimes you convert people while your trying to build a large city so 
 you can build a large army. ya nothing says lets live there like a nice big blood thirsty army. 
 the hand movement can some times a #$%^! enemies don't attack on certain maps and when they do 
 they sometimes just sit out side your walls and die. another problem is the armies doesn't have 
 enough variety. archers, swordsmen, and catapults. what happened to spear men or calvary. heres a 
 little hint if you stay long enough on the first map where you actually build and take over people 
 your creature will grow bigger and if you invest some training in combat he will destroy the creature 
 on the next map. building cities is really fun and it looks really cool. you'll be proud of your 
 self but watch out you might start doubling the size of your city if people get carried away with 
 breeding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_lilpyro_x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Black & White 2 is the sequal to Black & White 1. This sequal has alot of the same things as the 
 first but it also has alot of different things too. For instance, you have a few new creatures 
 to choose from. Also, you can battle the nieghboring towns or influence them to join you. Another 
 new thing about this game is that you can buld new building & assign people to new jobs. But at 
 times you just have to think to yourself, at times this sequal has too much from the first one. 
 Yet its truely fun at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  Black and White 2 can be a game you either love or hate. What you'll be doing mostly in the game 
 is building. Building can be complicated and sometimes even become hard. You also control a creature 
 and it can be fun seeing it battle. The enemy AI here is somewhat unintelligent. The sound of the 
 game is also great although for the music, you get to hear only a few soundtracks. The games graphics 
 are the best part of Black and White 2 especially in the highest setting. The environment, the 
 water, objects, characters and other things looks great. The games frame rate is also smooth.
 
  
  If you love strategy games, Black and White 2 is definitely for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: operating
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Black & White 2, like its predecessor, Black & White, is a marvelous game. You play God in an unknown 
 world, with the help of your creature companion. With many choices to make from feeding your people, 
 to training them to fight, Black & White 2 offers up some amazing game play. Though the game has 
 its flaws, which are few and far between, you'll have a hard time putting it down. 
  As you play God throughout your world, other Gods will try and oppose you, with their peoples and 
 creatures. With many different options, choices, and creatures to choose from, the game makes for 
 a most enjoyable experience for young and old alike. While playing through the game you have to 
 unlock certain prerequisites to obtain special powers, such as "Water Crops, Fireballs, and Lightning 
 Storms" to wield at your own accord. 
  Now, no one said anything about being a "good" overlord to your beings, which means you have a 
 certain amount of good points and bad points. For example, you could pick up a giant boulder, toss 
 it into a house and kill the inhabitants. Now, that's a bit harsh but, what the heck, your God 
 right? Anyways, the game has a certain, well, let's say amusement to it. We love playing god, and 
 always have, so, why not make another game about it right? Yes, in fact, this game is the most 
 amusing game I have ever played personally, in terms of a population survival type game. All around 
 Black & White 2, is a must have for all those overlord enthusiasts out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pako_adrian
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Personally I really liked both this game and it's predecessor. It's very original in both the main 
 idea of the game and in the playing style. Also related to the playing style is the ability to choose 
 between good and evil, mercy or wrath creation or destruction. You can win a level either by means 
 of peace, building majestic cities and drawing the entire maps population into your city, or by 
 means of war, with a large army and a very mean creature. Witch brings us to the next brilliant 
 aspect of the game: the creature. From my point of view a vital aspect of the game that was brushed 
 using the experience from the previous game, brushed to the point where it's almost perfect. Having 
 a lion wolf or cow creature doing you every wish, like eating enemies villagers destroying it's 
 armies and cities really adds to the flavor of the game. All this, with a superb game play, a very 
 well made graphics engine and a good sound track make the game definitely worth anyones while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlomHellscream
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Once again, if I may say, Peter Molyneux you've continued the series of Black &amp; White, the 
 fight for evil amongst good, the rebuilding of the Greeks, even killing the Aztecs. Now I favor 
 the Aztecs in my opinion, but it's your game. Miracles, creatures, ditties, villagers, and most 
 importantly... war. Instead of god against god, it's god against 
 
   Hoppfully I came close to 
 the aspect of the game against the Aztecs, Norse, and the Japanese.
  
  My favorite part, the Goodness, the Necture if you will. I love the use of villagers pore lives 
 of farming, mating, mining, and log chopping to be replaced by the eager life of war and of that 
 of a solider. The minigames, oh --- the minigames. the Norse man, seen in the Isle when your creature 
 gets trapped in the first Black &amp; White, throw him, eat him, drown him, burn him. You can't 
 kill him can you? Migration? What, no, not the leaving of others' town to your's because you've 
 built it through the whole level, that can't be it... Buildings, buildings, buildings, oh what 
 have you Lionhead book-worms been up to now? The Amphitheater?! By George, it's most extraordinary. 
 Temples, houses, prisons, knowledge for the villagers, stop it's too great for my feeble mind to 
 comprehend, bravo Lionhead, bravo indeed.
  
  Sigh... the worst part, the bad... the life draining, succubus-like, truth...
  Now, what happened 
 to the miracles? What happened to the great and powerful temple your creature lays to rest when 
 he feels he is finished. Surely, there were many reasons why Black &amp; White 2 didn't have a 
 huge
  temple that changed the face of your image in the light and the creative momentum spin the game 
 started with. Though a good job you have done with the cow, ape, lion, wolf, and tiger. What happened 
 to them? The goat, the bear, to horse, the turtle, the orangutan, the mighty Rhino, and the small 
 chicken that had many possibilities. I mean it is like 3 thousand years later, sure, but creatures 
 evolve you know... oh well, I'm clingy on creatures. The game did great over all, I couldn't get 
 my eyes off of it when I went to bed, woke up, and even at school my mind wandered for the linger 
 of Black &amp; White 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Black and White 2 is a really cool game simply put. First thing you will notice is that it looks 
 really cool. Everything has a crisp, cartoony feel to it (pleasing to the eyes I guess you could 
 say) . Once you get through the dialog at the beginning, choose your starting beast and jump on 
 in. Welcome to Godhood! From here you get to mess around, have your little guys build stuff, punish 
 or reward them, gather resources, etc. For sim-lovers it definitely offers hours of fun.
  But the game isn't perfect, there are some parts of it that fail to scrape even a par rating. The 
 interface and mouse.... sigh. It is not fun. It felt drifty and was hard to click on stuff sometimes. 
 It could also be confusing when they tell you to do stuff and then you're like, umm, what was that? 
 There's also the fact that it's a sim game. Unless you're a big fan, eventually these games just 
 get old. I was able to play this game probably the same duration as I can play Sims 2 before getting 
 sick of it. So maybe you guys reading this can use it as a benchmark.
  Overall, it's a good game and I'd recommend it to anyone wanting a different gaming experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy_the_pipe
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  I found this game pretty difficult. On the one hand, I really enjoyed Black and White 1. On the 
 other hand, I am really bad at war games. So out of personal preference, I just don't like this 
 game, but it's actually good. Anyone who loves war games will love this.
  
  Graphics: Are pretty cool. The creatures don't look blocky anymore, and they're pretty expressive. 
 One could complain that the villagers look pretty lame. (But I'd point out that better villagers 
 would just slow things down.)
  
  Gameplay: I understood a lot of it, but there were a bunch of things I couldn't figure out. (For 
 example, I never had an army of more than 5 soldiers. Why? I Don't Know; that's the problem.)
 
  
  Pros:
  -The programming has improved, and the creature statistics make sense, which they didn't last time. 
 In fact, all of the statistics have improved, because they were broken last time.
  -Earthquake/Volcanoe: Nice..
  -King Kong: Awesome.
  -Villages seem less likely to kill themselves 
 off when you're not paying attention.
  
  Cons:
  -The Devil needs some pants, and he DESPERATELY needs a shirt.
  -Really slow: My computer is 
 pretty new, and can play games like Fable &amp; Hitman with almost no lag. But with B&amp; W2, I 
 found I was waiting upto 5 minutes for a single level to load, which is kindof ridiculous.
  -Man, after 5 minutes I was ready to throttle the bad guy. He says about 3 different phrases, and 
 loops every 2 minutes. Very falking annoying.
  -Creature seems kindof stupid sometimes, like walking 3/4s the wrong way around an island.
  -Sidequests: 
 Not very much fun, and the rewards were usually pretty weak.
  -I miss the evolving-temple feature from the first game. It let you know how good/evil you were 
 playing.
  
  So overall, I didn't like this game as much as the first. But you will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afpabon
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  I must confess that, even if Peter Molyneaux described the first Black and White as something much 
 more trascending than it actually was, the game was a great experience, and watching the creature 
 mimic your godly actions was awesome.
  
  However, it was plagued with flaws entwined with the basic fabric of the game: the creature education 
 , though great, had to be unveiled by watching closely, while losing detail of the rest of the 
 things happening in the world. The camera control had some serious issues as well, so getting from 
 place A to place B at the other side of the island could be a real nightmare.
  
  B&amp; W2 fixes these issues by placing education stats (resolving the first issue) , and making 
 a great improvement over the mouse control of the game. It also introduces new buildings and new 
 side quests, all of them really interesting.
  
  The only bad thing I can say about it is that it sometimes becomes a bit frustrating to need to 
 restart a scenario in which you had already spent 1 or 2 hours, because you realize there's no 
 way to pacifically resolve it (i. e. there's no way you'll get that much influence with what's left 
 on the island) . For those who prefer the darker side of the game, though, this isn't probably an 
 issue! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- 9 -One of the funnest games out with unique features. The mouse is kinda used liked the 
 Wii in this for example to throw rocks you have to move the mouse back and push it forward quickly. 
 You can do almost anything and its really fun to make up your own crazy ideas. For examply you 
 can get your creature to throw dead bodies at the enemy army or you can simply drop a rock on them. 
 The scale is great and the graphics are nice especially the water, looks like BioShock water. Great 
 virtual pet simulator as well as your pet has its own personality and it is amusing to see what 
 it does. Once it was thinking of taking a dump on the villagers head. Making armies and making 
 them fight is great and remind of Rome TOtal War but smaller and better graphics. It is hard to 
 recruit armies though : ( since you never have enough population.
  
  Sound - 9 -Not much to say
  
  Graphics - 9 -Detailed and love how real the water looks
  
 
  Value -7 -I guess you can replay campaign but the lack of anything else is a downer and you can 
 only play greeks.
  
  Tilt - 8-Love the idea of being a god and how interactive the mouse is. No skirmish is annoying 
 though and I doubt there are skirmish mods for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob9999999999
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I found this game highly amusing. The best part was that it was outside the box. It wasn't your 
 standard RTS. The creatures are fun... It's like a virtual pet. Aside from that though everyone 
 wants to feel all powerful and this game lets them do it. Even though is game is now slightly dated 
 i still play it. Being able to toss trees across the island and bowl with boulders is what makes 
 this game. I would highly recommend it to anyone who likes RTS game (and those who find other RTS 
 games boring) .
  
  I would like to say that there is a lot of building and not as much action. This is more of a personal 
 preference thing so keep it in mind. Even when there is action the battles are kindof a letdown. 
 Two groups of men rush at eachother and one group emerges victorious. There is little strategy 
 in the actual fighting. The creature fights are amusing but once again you have no control (unless 
 you lob fireballs at them - quite amusing...) I also think that it would be nice to have a few 
 more building options... Building a metropolis is fun but building 500 houses isn't. All in all 
 this is a very satisfying game to play, however. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-queen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  Another great, albiet long awaited, game has come from the imagination of Peter Molyneux and his 
 Lionhead Studios, Black &amp; White 2; sequel to the popular god game Black &amp; White.
  
  The story is that you have laid dormat for a time, but you are brought back by a prayer. The pray 
 is a women asking for help as the brutal Aztecs attack your civilization's, the Greeks, capital. 
 You with few survivors establish new Greek cities on other tribe lands (The Norse, The Japanese 
 and The Aztecs) . You get help from two advisors who help you to be evil or good, the good advisor 
 is a bearded, old man floating on a cloud who tells how to be good, the evil advisor is a red goateed 
 thing with man boobs who tels how to be evil.
  
  There are two ways to take over a land, one evil one good. The good one is impressing enemy towns 
 to migrate to your city, the evil one is rising great armies to take over a town. Your people can 
 be turned to disciples which carry out various jobs they are Miner, Breeder, Forester, Worshipper, 
 Farmer, Refiner and Builder. The city building can be quite enjoyable, it's easy to place buildings 
 and your people interact with the building.
  
  At the beginning you can choose a creature, a creature is a large animal which you care like a 
 pet, you have four to choose; the Ape, the Lion, the Wolf and the Cow. Each one you can make a 
 loveable, playful pet or a evil, single minded war machine. You have to teach him what is right 
 or wrong, if he is about to do something right you stroke, but if he does something wrong you **** 
 him, but if you want to be evil do the reverse.
  
  The graphics of the game are excellent, the sea reflects the sun, moon and the island, shadows 
 are realistic, you can zoom out to see the entire island or zoom in to see your people's faces 
 and that dead bodies float in the water.
  
  In Black &amp; White you get a real feeling of being a god, picking up people choosing their fate, 
 cast miracles like fire, electric or heal and have great over the sun.
  
  All in all, Black &amp; White 2 is another game Lionhead Studios should be proud of, it's addictive 
 and fun and hope Lionhead continues the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowJello
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  Black &amp; White 2 has proven to be one of the best sequels that I have ever played. I haven't 
 played the first Black &amp; White in a very long time, but that's okay, because this game gives 
 you a totally fresh start with the same two consciences (good and evil) leading you through the 
 game.
  
  When you first start off, the Greek people are being attacked by the relentless Aztec armies. You 
 are called upon by the Greek citizens' prayers. You save as many as you can, and start a whole 
 new Greek civilization. From there, you can choose to be good or evil. Either way, it takes a lot 
 of brains and a lot of time to get through each island.
  
  You have to keep your city alive and well by getting your people to breed, farm, mine, and cut 
 down trees for your buildings. If you don't do this, then you will not win the land, at least not 
 easily. The more people you have, the more stuff you have to build. The more stuff you build, the 
 happier your city is, and the more impressive. However, be careful how you build your city, because 
 that also has an effect on how well you do when taking over the land.
  
  The quests given to you pay you tribute, which is a form of currency and is what you use to buy 
 new buildings and miracles. A lot of the quests are pretty mindless and simple, but some are incredibly 
 difficult and require you to think exactly how you are going to get through to the next point. 
 In fact, some of them even require math skills (very simple math skills, mind you) .
  
  The one thing about this game is that between capturing towns and stuff like that, it's quite uneventful, 
 especially if you don't have any quests to do. It can get very boring to the point where you are 
 just sitting there watching your people walk around and basically just going in circles. If you 
 don't know what you're doing or you aren't good at working through games where you need to strategize 
 every single move you make.
  
  Overall, I would have to say that this game is worth buying as long as you know how to play smart 
 and know what you're doing when it comes to strategizing. Based on what I've seen recently, it's 
 fairly inexpensive, and it also has a very good expansion pack out. Give it a try, you may love 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koldewyse
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Black and White 2, by EA games and Lionhead studios, is a fun simulation-strategy game for the 
 PC. The premise is simple: you are God, summoned by the Greeks to help them rebuild their civilization 
 and combat the Aztecs, Norse, and Japanese. You can be good or evil -- hence the title of the game -- in 
 order to achieve your aims. For instance, it is good to build walls and temples and schools, whereas 
 it is evil to build armaments and armies and torture pits. You can win the game either way; it 
 is up to you. It is your job to build up their cities, control their industries and hold off the 
 enemy's forces. The gameplay is surprisingly smooth; one would expect such tasks to be difficult 
 and take a lot of planning, but B&amp; W2's RTS engine is much more simplistic than the average 
 PC-simulation game's, sacrificing depth for easier gameplay and other elements, such as the pet 
 simulation.
  
  Your pet, is a giant creature of your choice, be it ape, lion, cow or wolf. They grow up to huge 
 sizes and do your bidding on Earth. They can harvest grain, build buildings, and wage war. All 
 of these tasks can also be assigned to your villagers, but your creature can do them faster and 
 more efficiently. You can raise your pet to be good or evil, both effective ways of furthering 
 yourself in the game. For example, an evil lion will look maniacal and intimidating, and will be 
 war-ready, a powerful asset in armies. A good lion will be golden-white, and will build you temples 
 and raise money and food for the villagers by sowing and harvesting fields.
  
  Do not forget that you are God; you yourself have many powers. You yourself can do all of the aforementioned 
 tasks if you are so inclined. In addition, you're able to cast a number of miracles, good and evil. 
 You have normal miracles such as fireball and heal, then you have powerful miracles, such as meteors 
 and volcanoes. Finally, by placing a Wonder you're able to cast one of the special epic miracles. 
 The graphics in B&amp; W2 are superb. Even on a mediocre machine set at the lowest graphics level, 
 the visuals are something to be admired. Islands are wonderfully created, and villagers are realistic 
 and alive. The physics engine is also good: for example, if you throw a boulder at an object, it 
 will crumble and flatten. If you wish to be evil, you can pick up villagers and throw them around, 
 or feed them to your animal for your amusement. The dynamic zoom allows you freedom in viewing 
 your environment. On the smaller scale, you can zoom in to see individual blades of grass in fields, 
 and individual villagers, but on the larger scale, you can see giant wars played out, the entire 
 field's action within your screen. The sounds in this game are fitting, if a bit minimal. There 
 are several ambient tunes that rotate as you manage your towns, and are at first mild and smooth, 
 but get to be a bit repetitive and annoying. The SFX are a nice touch as well, if you near a temple, 
 you can hear calm hymns, and zoom near a tavern to hear boisterous laughter.
  
  This game is a good one, playable on most PCs, and although a bit rough around the edges, is fun 
 for what it is. Rent it, try it at a friend's house, and if you like it, buy it.
  
  Pros:
  + Great graphics
  + Good physics engine
  + Overall, a good concept
  + Compelling 
 story
  
  Cons:
  + Repetitive soundtrack
  + A bit short for my tastes
  + Not as open-ended as the original 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chumpdude
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  Black and White 2 starts of with a long and boring tutorial, but thankfully it is skipable. The 
 first island you reside actually is a little fun, as it will let you play around with the physics. 
 Then your thrown into a crappy collection of objectives in the next, brief level. Around this time 
 you may be thinking badly about this game, but right after that, the real experience begins. You 
 get a small village to take care of (or not) and a few neighboring towns. You'll also notice the 
 animal you previously picked sleeping in a nearby cage. You'll be guided on how to feed, build, 
 raise your creature, impress, and destroy. Then, you figure out how to win. This level of immersiveness 
 is hard to beat, as there is nothing that makes you feel better than treating your people well, 
 or by throwing boulders at their houses.
  
  Either way, the open ended-ness calms down a little here, and soon you'll find yourself getting 
 more and more restricted, and you know what? It's just fine, because you'll get plenty of fun things 
 to do. BnW2 is an excellent game, and you should at least give the demo a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megaflare252
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 14, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  This games graphics can be quite beautiful if your computer has the power. Even though you essentially 
 have God powers in most RTS games this game pushes it out into the open. It almost encourages you 
 to either feel total accountability for your little worshipers or give you complete disregard for 
 their needs and lives. Either way is fun. Raise your creature to be caring and Eco-Friendly or 
 use him as your messenger of death. All of the standard RTS objectives apply here too. Find resources, 
 build, expand, defend, conquer, explore, mate.... the latter, however, may be unique to this franchise. 
 A good game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfury0101
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 5, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  The computer I played this on may have caused alot of problems with this game but it will not affect 
 the score. However, the whole idea of playing a god and pleasing or torturing your people seems 
 somewhat bland to me. At first, though I thought it was worth a try. So, lets begin, the only single 
 player content you will get in this game is the campaign (or so called god game) . In the campaign 
 you are the remnants of the Greek people that were devastated by an attack. The Greek people and 
 you their god go into different countries all throughout the campaign. Your goal is to take control 
 of the land you go into. If it is either by war or by peace matters. Which obviously contributes 
 to you alignment the more warlike and the more you are bad to your people the more evil you become. 
 The better you are to your people and the more peaceful you are the more good you become. This 
 really dosent affect game play all that much. The way to take over a land by peaceful means is to 
 impress its inhabitants. The more the impressiveness of your town the more chance you will have 
 of people migrating to your borders and requesting permission to enter into your town. This is 
 a interesting feature that prevent me from giving this game a horrible review. Other than this 
 though, the game is just bland to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exo911
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 3, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  In Black and White 2 you take on the powers of a G-d. You must chose if you are good or Evil. You 
 build up a civilization and a somewhat army. There is not much combat which makes me not feel like 
 i am playing a RTS. You chose a creature which i think should be on all fours and not on two. I 
 consider This game a Simulation. The graphics in this game are similar to many of the new high 
 end games. The gameplay is decent but could be much better. The tutorial takes a long time. Then 
 on its all on you. I give this game a 6 because it could be much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 27, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I never got around to playing the original B&amp; W, even though it was apparently pretty popular. 
 I guess I didn't get into it just because I wasn't sure what it was about. I heard other people 
 raving about it, and how you get to play as God. After a while, curiosity got the best of me. So 
 I booted it up and gave it a go, and I was pretty pleased. At first glance, I was skeptical. I 
 usually don't enjoy RTS games, since managing resources and building stuff begins to feel tedious 
 and boring to me. It hasn't been since the old War Craft 2 days that I've played a strategy game 
 that's held my attention this long. But my skepticism was pleasantly unfounded after giving B&amp; W 
 2 a chance. Make no mistake, this is still technically a strategy game, but it isn't all about 
 building an army and killing everyone and destroying their forts. The game abruptly places you 
 in the role of a god, trying to rebuild a civilization. Along the way, you meet your conscience: 
 an evil devil, and an angelic character. They serve as your assistants, and offer advice throughout 
 the game. The devil may recommend you to do evil deeds, like capturing or destroying enemy territory, 
 while the angel will encourage you to use diplomacy and peaceful resolve to persuade enemies to 
 join your alliance, thus making you a more powerful ruler (without the bloodshed) .
  This is alot of fun because you'll have to balance good and evil behavior, and make some tough 
 moral choices. You can of course be entirely evil, or entirely good. This is where the god-stuff 
 comes in. Your mouse cursor is shaped like a hand. With it, you can pick up people, roll boulders 
 out of the way, and rip up trees to be processed into lumber. One entertaining thing you can also 
 do is throw these things around (throwing people is a guilty pleasure) . You could do something 
 like pick up huge rocks, and toss them at enemy structures (or even your own if you wish) . Picking 
 up people, you can then assign them to do things like chop wood, build houses, gather grain, and 
 mine for ore. Once they've been selected to do this task, they will carry on with business without 
 you needing to worry. As things progress, you build houses, temples, barracks, and a few other 
 things. If you build a temple, you can have people worship you there, which increases your overall 
 godly powers. You can't initially control too much and can only do things in a circle around your 
 city. But as the population increases, this circle gets bigger, and increases your influence. And 
 even though you might want to avoid war, you'll need a barracks to train soldiers. Sometimes, enemies 
 will launch an offensive and try to invade, so you'll want a tough army to protect it.
  All this is very simple and easy to manage so there's no worry.
  But lastly I come to the creature 
 element. At the beginning, you get to choose from several animal creatures, like a lion, or a big 
 gorilla. Once you've made your choice, you can train him and improve him, much like an RPG. It's 
 important to teach your creature good from evil. If he grows up to be evil, he's more likely to 
 do things like hurt your own allies, or destroy buildings. Disciplining him, you can work him into 
 a noble creature, who helps villagers build tings and gather resources. You can even have him attack 
 enemy bases t do lots of damage. As the game continues, you'll upgrade him and make him a better 
 fighter, etc. You (the player) also gains new abilities, like being able to summon earthquakes 
 or cause floods. It's pretty satisfying.
  The game DOES get tough as things go on, so it's important to remember all this. Everything else 
 in the game is quite good. The graphics look pretty nice, but you'll need a very fast machine to 
 make it run at a stable pace.
  There's a lot of humor in the game, and it's pretty funny sometimes. The devil character is especially 
 hilarious and usually has something funny to say.
  All in all this is a pretty great game, and it's changed my opinion on RTS's a little. Hopefully 
 if you don't like RTS games, this might convince you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuclear_Scion
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 16, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  The Black and White series launched with great anticipation, and it delivered. The first game was 
 the ideal open ended god sim that drove people mad. Black and White 2 is the follow up to that 
 and boy are we in for a doozy.
  
  The most noticable addition to the game seems to be the ability to now create armies. Players will 
 spend their fair share of time gawking at the new UI as well as the glossed over and somewhat impressive 
 3D graphics, but it is time short spent. The new concept that a God would command an army to fight 
 in his name is revolutionary to the Black and White series, and while it makes the game stand out 
 over its predecessor in many ways, the story line that goes along with it tends to strangle some 
 of the game's open endedness. That being said, the army feature is still a little choppy, and it 
 could use some adjustments, such as certain able bodied men not reporting for duty when called 
 upon due to the distance from the Armory, but all in all the feature is effective enough to warrant 
 its use. Its frequent use.
  
  Visually the game has taken on a more massive approach. The cities are now larger in scale, with 
 the buildings, including the homes no longer limited to a Large or small building of the same design. 
 With new offerings such as skyscrapers and mansions, the game has a certain appeal to those looking 
 for a city builder as well. However, one of the more neat features of the game is the fact that 
 the cities model themselves after your alignment.
  
  See, Black and White is all about being good or evil as you move about in the world, just as the 
 name suggests. It means this in such that, If you do evil things, like feeding your people to your 
 pet creature, or simply dropping rather large rocks and fireballs on their house, they wont like 
 you, and you will become evil, represented by your hand growing long clawlike nails, and the city 
 looking sinister and worn down. On the other hand (no pun intended) if you are a good god, the 
 people will worship you, and dance about and sing your name in praise. The city will be full of 
 butterflies and other things associated with being good.
  
  This adds a unique aspect to the game in that someone with moral values might find themselves being 
 an Evil god after using that boulder to crush the enemy army. What you do to others also affects 
 your alignment, and if you use your creature to smash down a wall and eat their citizens, that 
 normally isnt considered nice.
  
  The ultimate objective of the game is to conquer each land one way or another and move on to the 
 next, defeating the maruading Aztecs that destroyed your homeland. This unfortunately limits the 
 open endedness of the game somewhat, as it appears the skirmish mode is gone from the game, as 
 well as the enemy once you either win over everyone on the island with your impressiveness (being 
 good and making an awesome city) or your army (evil, of course.)
  
  What makes the game truly unique is that, once you finally become evil, its entirely possible to 
 switch back to being a good god. Thus allowing your to use the alignment to serve your interests, 
 and not being stuck doing something the same way for the rest of the game just because of one bad 
 choice.
  
  Regardless, the game still capitalizes on its predecessors and doesnt lack most of what made the 
 first game great. It even adds on to that, and still retains the same values that made the original 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daggersquad
Rating: 8
Date: May 12, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  First of all, Black and White 2 is not for those who are impatient. It requires extended periods 
 of what feels like, Messing around. More often then not, you can just do your own thing and eventually 
 you will win no matter what you do, as long as you do it long enough.
  
  The game play is much like the original with a few minor changes. Most important of all is the 
 addition of the Tribute system which allows the player to purchase improvements to the society. 
 These improvements include baths, taverns, torture pits, prisons, ect. and eventually, monuments. 
 On the other side, the creature and its involvement has been greatly watered down, making it easier 
 to train your pet, but at the same time limiting its own ability to aid the player.
  
  Graphically, its very well done, wherein you can zoom in and get a detailed model of the villagers 
 (many can be seen at once with little hindrance on the system) or zoom out and get a detailed view 
 of the island. The sound is unimpressive, but at the same time there isn't much demand for it in 
 the first place.
  
  Overall, if you just want to play a relaxing and innovative game, Black and White 2, just might 
 be what your looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truemattyz
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  i remeber waiting for this for months if i was to give any game my all time fav game badge it would 
 be torn between this and one other game alone... fable the production company for these games are 
 trully amazing (sorry i will refrase the ppl behind creating the storys and carchters for these 
 games are amazing) i love the way you become a part of this world.. i love the way you feel responsible 
 for your little ppl and your pet. you feel you have to protect them. i would watch the syren all 
 day if i could i found it so beutiful.
  
  if i was to have one prob ... and only the minultest of prob.. it would be that the rest of the 
 great spells wernt as great as teh siren.. ppl moan about it being glitchy and troublesone. but 
 i could cope with this in other games it can ruin it . but i just put up with teh graphical errors 
 (that occord slightly for some) that i problably could not put up with in toher games... i would 
 highly recomend this game it is amazing and if you miss the fellings and the sence of popuse in 
 games then this qwould be a definat one to try and fable and movies... ppl have given this a low 
 score i give it 10 out of 10 but pls note that before pericusuion this game is everything to me. 
 every reason i fell in love with pc gaming .. i am kind of sad to think that we have lost peter 
 valcolnio to microsfts console development and i can only hope really hope that the console pc 
 wars are not going to affect lionheads studios development with pc games even tho they work close 
 with microsft (you ould expect it anyway, expect them to bring to pc straight away) i am much looking 
 forawardf to fable 2 and i have my fingures crossed that it comes to pc, and i hope soon with xbox360 
 release or shotly after ..... i will never forget .... the lionhead studios era .... and i hope 
 you guys dont either ..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mazen_24
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 26, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  It is nice and has a lot of buildings, and options.. but the game needs a lot of cache memory.... and 
 in the end the computer is a machine, and this game will make the computer harsh, in other words 
 we want to buy a new game and not a new computer.... tdy there is a lot of strategic games that 
 is so wide ,that works easily, it is good to make the game perfect ,but that shouldnt mean that 
 it should be played on just specific pc's with specific requirements.. in the end it is just a game........ so 
 plz dont misuderstand me ... and i can say it is a good game that why we need to see more of it 
 more frequently cuz it is one of the games that we really wait... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woodchip50
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 8, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this thinking i was going to get a god game, in fact there are only a very few and 
 limited 'godly' things you can do e. g. pick up rocks, create miracles (v. v. v few of these and most 
 crappy) But dont think this means i believe it to be a bad game, just that i am very disapointed 
 that it isn't what it claims to be. It is more like a tycoon management game, the few godly thinks 
 could also be replicated via humans in a normal tycoon game like the water miracle - only use is 
 to water plants - why does this need to be created by a god? - humans have managed to water plants 
 just fine...
  
  I will however say that the game does offer some aspects which are an improvement on city building 
 games - in that you can now help build them rather than wait for your people to do so, although 
 this does remove any challenge. But there is still plenty of fun to be found here, it does have 
 some humour and it is different from the norm. I was just hoping that as god i would be a little 
 less limited to six-ish miracles, and being able to pul trees out of the ground...
  
  woodchip50 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentistu
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 7, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  Black &amp; White 2 combines distinctly different gaming genres into one game.
  You will construct sophisticated cities, raise armies and lead them into
  battle, and if that 
 weren't enough, you get to interact with your giant
  creature, a sort of virtual pet that can also serve as your enforcer.
  There's so much in Black 
 &amp; White 2 that it's amazing it all blends together
  like it does. Though, it does go a bit overboard in some areas at times.
  Black &amp; White 2 
 is considered a god game because you play, well, a god.
  Specifically, you happen to be god for the Greeks, though that's not to
  say that you're a Zeus 
 or a Hera or one from the traditional pantheon.
  The setting is in a fantasy world that happens to be occupied by the Greeks,
  the Norsemen, the 
 Japanese, and the Aztecs. The Aztecs begin the game by
  sacking the Grecian capital, but not before you manage to spirit away a
  handful of survivors 
 to a faraway land to begin anew. This story is a huge
  improvement over the first game, because it offers a cause to see to the
  end, as well as a focused 
 enemy to take down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Peter Molyneux has a habbit of bragging about his games and not getting it done, what i don't understand 
 is why does he say something will be there and never ends up in the game? What i don't get also 
 is why does he let the games die with little to no patches and always just one expansion.
  
  Straight away this games failed with bad AI and the enemies just don't attack you, they wait 
 for you to come to them and follow set routes all the time. Theres very little units to chose from 
 also which is a shame, even though there would be little point to that in this game lol. Also i 
 hate the fact that theres NO Multiplayer and NO Skirmish modes and again i ask how can this game 
 be released without them?
  
  The game also lacks the personality and the humour of the first game and breaks many elements that 
 made it fun. I don't like the bubbles over your creatures head for example, just makes it too easy 
 and destroys the immersion of teaching your pet. The side quests are pretty boring and there doesn't 
 feel enough of them, they feel tacked on at the last second before going gold.
  
  What is good however are the graphics and the sounds, they're both just amazing! The graphics are 
 great for 2007 let alone when it launched nearly 2 years ago. I also love the good and bad guys 
 that constantly talk to you, adds humour and personality to the game but just not as much as the 
 first. The city building is also great however there are a few buildings that don't have much point 
 to them.
  
  The expansion really adds onto the game and gives you some new stuff which is kool and fixes some 
 things so might be a worthwhile purchase if you can afford it.
  
  Overall it's a disappointment with some good points, i did have quite alot of fun playing but it 
 didn't really last long enough due to all the faults. I'd say i hope they make a 3rd game and do 
 it right.
  
  I can't believe they had PM and the guy who created Diablo and Warcraft and Starcraft working on 
 this game and failed.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madvicker
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  compared with the first in the series this leaps miles ahead in a lot of aspects. creature training 
 is now much more simple so you dont have to spend hours teaching them how to behave. also they 
 grow a lot quicker so you do not have to wait for a month or two of regular play for him to grow 
 to full size. town management is also a lot easier and informative. although i was a bit disappointed 
 that you were not fighting other gods like you were in the first but the expansion remedies that 
 to an extent. the graphics on the other hand are breathtaking. really good. overall this is a worthwhile 
 game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  I wasn't really a fan of the original BW because it was so damn innovative - there were so many 
 things to remember as far as the miracles go, you just couldn't keep up. That, and the game was 
 literally impossible to beat. Luckily, BW2 solves many of those problems by becoming more user-friendly 
 and mainstream-RTS; there is a heavy emphasis on city building, but it is actually loads of fun 
 to watch as rival citizens defect to your magnanimous citadel. Being good is no fun, of course, 
 and being bad is almost as fun here as in Dungeon Keeper. You can train your creature from day 
 one to be a hulking behemoth who destroys enemy towns and munches on their people, leading your 
 army into battle. And speaking of armies, you have direct control of your soldiers and there are 
 multiple types. While the battles can quickly escalate into large mano e mano brawls with swords, 
 you don't have the kind of control in games such as the Total War series. But throw in your hundred-foot 
 monkey, and there really isn't a point in any control; he will cause so much chaos you can merely 
 sit back and watch the enemy evaporate. In any case, Black &amp; White 2 is a fun game which may 
 take a couple hours to get fully used to, but when you master the mechanics, you will have hours 
 and hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thephoenix365
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 15, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  So, as i said in my review of black and white 1, the game was revolutionary in concept and gameplay.
 
  
  Second time around people know what to expect from peter molyneux and his lionhead studios marque 
 brand, and for the most part black and white delivers:
  
  All of what made the 1st incarnation great are here, good or evil, spells, creatures, hundreds 
 of little people all wanting help or attention at any given moment. Not only that but combat between 
 your little peeps seems to be given more of an emphasis this time around.
  
  But then war, what is it good for? Not a lot in my opinion, its over simplified battles with no 
 more tactical nouse than a game of paper scissors stone where the opposition shows you it's hand 
 before you choose yours. Sure you have ranged units, melee units and the like, but in the wake 
 of other strategy games doing a lot more in terms of warfare it pales into barely sideshow status.
 
  
  So what is the main part of the game? It seems to me that the game has evolved into more of a sim 
 city 1100AD variant, and quite a good one it is. Mostly it enables you to be more in control of 
 how your people live and what they can do from day to day.
  
  In fact this element of the game is a vast improvement on the 1st one, for the most part it is 
 a highly enjoyable experience enabling you to build a nice little city full of all the comforts 
 you would expect your little people to want. Send them out to work and get the food/mana that you 
 need to help and then turn the sun back so they have no sleep and all move on the road to ruin. 
 Or perhaps not.
  
  However the creatures seem to me to be nothing more than occasional fighters but mainly a method 
 by which you can avoid tending to one of the many things that you need to do as a Deity and less 
 of the all conquering uber beings from the original.
  
  Overall i think the revolutionary aspects of the game have become passengers to a variation on 
 a theme of city building. As a result it's somewhat of a let down after the 1st, and while it is 
 a decent game, it just doesn't quite cut it like the original did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormLord__
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 14, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  Black &amp; White 2 is a great game, although i personally prefer the original. The graphic level 
 is astounding, which is only understandable considering the progress od the computers nowadays. 
 Also, the creature is possibly the smartest AI-controlled person since games appeared. The bad 
 news is: BnW 2 is no longer a god game. There is no influence, no belief, almost no miracles (those 
 that are in the game are purely for the fact that a god must have miracles and that's that) , so 
 the game is practicaly turned into a City Manager. People don't need to believe in you, they just 
 need to like your city to win. The influence ring is comparatively very small compared to the BnW 
 original, so if you are ever in a wood shortage, tough luck trying to reach the trees. The creature 
 might eventually help, but even he has limits, and to gain influence in a certain direction, you 
 will need to stretch your entire city in that direction. Also, there are no other gods and no other 
 creatures as far as i got, which ruins the competitive side of the game. The alignment is defined 
 very well, for even the tiny actions as ripping out a tree from the ground ads a small point towards 
 evil, but you will need to rip a lot of trees to actually make a change. Also the infuence the 
 alignment has on you buildings and the city is good, for it ads a little diversity. All in all, 
 BnW 2 is not a god simulation game, it is a city manager simulatuin game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shegevara
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 11, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Well, black &amp; white 2 is a game that fits to people who can't find themselves in FPS, RPG, 
 RTS,.... this game is everything a little. You play as god, and it's very interesting to build, 
 use your own creature, build big cities, towns, and for all RTS lovers, you can have a (not much 
 deep strategy though) warfare. You can be good or evil god. You xan decide that. And it kinda feels 
 right. Like you are a god. You have a feeling that you can do almost anything you want, and that's 
 a lot of fun. City building is interesting, but you have to watch out how you build. For example 
 you must build houses near building that have influence of happiness. SO that means, you need to 
 build military buildings as far from houses as you can. It hasn't that much effect if you don't 
 but it has nice benefits if you watch out on that. Also you have a creature which helps you in 
 many things. It is just like a mini god who can build, entertain, pick up grain and even fight 
 the enemies. If you like games that are a bit different than others, you might really love this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w817
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 10, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  The first time you play this game you will immediately see the similarities with the first game, 
 but look beyond that and you'll find a few new interesting features. The effects of doing good 
 or bad things will affect your creature, as well as your buildings, the soil in your area and your 
 hand wich controls everything. A very positive change is that your pet has a mind of its own and 
 will not wait for you to tell him to do something. It will gather resources or irrigate the fields 
 without you looking after him. The really fun part is that you can build armies, hordes or swordsmen 
 and archers can attack your enemies creature or city. You also have really cool powers such as 
 meteors or electricity. And again your creature will know and use these powers without you having 
 to teach it to him. Building walls will give your city more protection and safety and there are 
 super buildings that can release a devastating power onto your enemy sush as a volcano or twister. 
 Overall the game has improved, beautiful graphics. But the gameplay isn't that different with black 
 and white. If you liked the first game you wil love this game for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnimeFreak9865
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  The Black and White series has always been a very unique experience. You play as a god that has 
 been called forth by your villagers in a time of trouble, it is your choice to be a peace loving 
 god and your villagers will follow the path of light. Or you can be an evil god that causes pain 
 and suffering, whatever path you choose affects everything around you.
  
  Unlike any other games you control a hand in this game, yes a hand. Instead of scrolling such as 
 in a typical strategy type game you have to hold on to the ground and pull your way across the 
 level to see what's going on. Because you are a god you have tremendous power to do things, for 
 example you can pick up boulders the size of a building and throw it at an unsuspecting enemy army, 
 or even uproot trees and plant them elsewhere. Once you get further into the game you will come 
 into possession of miracles. You can choose between good miracles (such as healing, water to irrigate 
 crops, protection and things like that) or you can get chaotic destructive miracles (like fire 
 and lightning, etc.) .
  
  In Black and White 2 you can still raise a pet as you could in the previous installments. In the 
 beginning you choose your creature : a tiger, an ape, a cow (funnily enough) and a wolf. Now it's 
 your choice how you wish to raise your pet, teach it to good, friendly, helpful and fun loving. 
 Or you can just teach it to be mischievous, greedy, evil and cruel. Every once in a while your 
 creature will have a thought (which appears as a blue text bubble above it's head) , you can either 
 pet it to tell it what it's thinking is good, or beat it to teach it not to do it. A few examples 
 of what you can do is to make your creature eat your villagers, then uproot trees as a toothpick 
 and even to take a dump on a nearby unsuspecting villager (not recommended, you have no idea what 
 the size is of the faeces!) . You can also raise your pet to be a war machine that will attack your 
 opponents.
  
  A new addition to the Black and White series is that you can now create armies to wage your battles. 
 Armies even allow you to control them outside of your influence (the boundaries you have, which 
 increases as more people worship you) . You can also choose to take control of your opponents village 
 so that you can gain even more influence. Completing objectives and other tasks will give you tribute, 
 a kind of currency that allows you to purchase new skills, miracles, buildings, levels for your 
 creature, etc.
  
  There are several small new additions to the new Black and White, an example of this is the way 
 in which you can control the time of day to your advantage. Black and White 2 has stunning graphics 
 and spectacular game play, it will definitely keep you entertained for hours on end! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earthcreater
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is not one of the best games i have ever tried, but it still has I a very special 
 charm. I believe this game lacks a lot of the wicked and fun humor of the first, and I think this 
 game tries of all its heart to copy the fun , but dosen`t totally get it.
  
  but still this game has a lot of fun to give you:
  
  1) gives you more city building with roads 
 and other stuff to make your city pretty.
  
  2) adds military soldiers to the game, which you can learn your creature to stomp with trees
 
  
  3) cool looking creatures that physically change if they are good or evil.
  
  4) lots of different building maybe double the buildings of the first game.
  
  things i dont 
 like in this game:
  
  1) dont like the wannabe humor of the first game, sometimes it is fun but most of the time crap.
 
  
  2) lacks the good story of the first game, it really dont get you into the game.
  
  overall: a game that you can love or hate i chose a place in the middle :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Meet a new standard in graphics and gameplay with Black and White 2. This game does very well. 
 You begin with choosing which Creature you teach and train yourself. And your big pet will physically 
 change based on what alignment he becomes. Will he be a lion of light? Or one with bloody paws 
 as he kills people who dont serve you to the fullest. Much of what made the first game great is 
 still here. You more or less play at your own pace, helping your people grow to become the strongest 
 empire. Eventually you face the Aztecs, who are the ones you attacked your people in the first 
 place.
  
  Gameplay 9- Fluid and good gameplay. The controls are solid and work well. the few bugs that were 
 in the game have been fixed through a few patches.
  Graphics 9- The Creature detail is amazing, from the fur to the facial expressions. The world is 
 also nicely detailed. If your PC can handle the beefy requirements you can turn the grass and flowers 
 and shadows on.
  Sound 9- Great music and voiceovers. though sometimes it gets annoying how often you will hear 
 the enemy general stating the obvious in how you are going to march your armies to his town and 
 crush him.
  Value 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  Black &amp; White 2 of course places you in God's shoes, and lets you control more then your people. 
 You have miracles in your arsenal and you can control some nature elements. In fact, creating troops 
 to defend your city is impractical, just pick up a boulder and drop it on the enemy. Graphics are 
 awsome, your conscience is pretty funny, and when the armies do fight its not the same repeated 
 move from each, they throw their swords at each other, knock em down and stab their head, then 
 pull out the sword and swing away. It makes the game very exciting even during slow moments, you 
 could torture your people.
  
  I'll just narrow it down to this. If you like RTS, this game is a definite buy. Its an original 
 game in a genre thats becoming over used, it stands out, and you can tell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akazergling2
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 21, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Black and White 2 has amazing graphics, great sound, and decent gameplay. These assets are however 
 vastly outweighed by the game's lack of a multiplayer or skirmish feature, eliminating all replay 
 value and most enjoyment from the game.
  
  Gameplay - 6/10
  
  The strategy involved in Black &amp; White 2 is pretty immense. With the addition of the combat 
 system, protecting your city from rival tribes (and a surprising lack of gods) is no easy task 
 and should be a top priority in most maps. The city building aspects of the game while not extremely 
 complex, is difficult but enjoyable also.
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  
  The graphics in Black and White 2 are some of the best available in modern gaming. A notable improvement 
 over Black and White 1, each building is intricately designed and most citizens look surprisingly 
 unique. Creatures themselves change dramatically depending on how they were raised and they too 
 have immense detail drawn into them.
  
  Sound - 7/10
  
  The sound remains as excellent as black and white 1 and it seems like each sound effect was crafted 
 just for the one unit associated with it.
  
  Value - 2/10
  
  With the lack of any replay value, most buyers will find themselves quiting the game after playing 
 through it once. Black and White 2 has 9 small maps to play through which take 1-2 hours average 
 to complete, 3 to fully complete them.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - 1/10
  
  I find this game to be a let down in every aspect that matters. The enemy and creature AI are both 
 far too easy and the lack of a sandbox or multiplayer mode makes this game almost entirely worthless. 
 The lack of a transfer system, online play, both of which were promised by Lionhead Studios are 
 some of the most notable flaws. Every aspect of the game seems to be simplified to absurdity, also 
 Black and White 2 has 12 less miracles then the original and I believe only detracts from the series 
 as a whole. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The__MCP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  So the first Black & White was definitely a unique game. No one can hype a game like Peter Molyneux. 
 B&W1 has to be one of the most anticipated PC games I've ever played. People built their lives 
 around that game, expecting the creature AI to be the next wave in game programming. As with any 
 hyped game, it didn't live up to expectations. Some people (including me) were fed up with the 
 erratic creature behavior and lack of direction. I started at least 5 creatures on the original 
 game and only one ever really turned out the way I wanted.
  
  Yes.... what I just described made the first game unique, but it could almost be darn frustrating 
 at times! The new creature is much smarter, and I for one appreciate that his thoughts are now 
 projected in bubbles over his head. The first game could be frustrating as heck because when you 
 spanked or rubbed your creature's belly, you never really knew what you were teaching him. Play 
 the second game if you don't believe me. Your creature will pick up a tree and throw it in the 
 village store house to increase lumber supplies, so you naturally rub his belly one second later 
 to encourage him to do it more, but in that split second, your creature has suddenly decided to 
 go eat a villager and you're suddenly complimenting him on something entirely different than the 
 original intended purpose. At least in the sequel, the less than perfect AI becomes much easier 
 to deal with. The good & evil aspects that really don't make much sense in the sequel are something 
 I miss from the original game, but honestly, all I ever wanted to do was build a strong city and 
 turn my creature into a war machine. And if that's the way you like to play, you're going to love 
 B&W2 because the entire game is designed for that type of player! There is still a little bit of 
 the "good and evil" in the sequel. Sure, you can win this game by being a "good guy" but it's boring 
 and doesn't make as much sense as it did in the first game.
  
  The city building dynamics in the sequel are MUCH better than the first game, and it almost becomes 
 a real-time strategy game because of it which is another reason why I think I prefer the sequel 
 over the first game. I love RTS games that don't feel like your typical Age of Empires clone and 
 try to do something different. With a creature to train, villagers to take care of, and interesting 
 quests to complete, it's enough to make it feel like a fresh take on the RTS genre. Will the game 
 ever capture the unique magic from the first Black & White? Probably not. And yes, the game does 
 come across as a sell out to what appeals to the gaming masses. Regardless, I still had a lot of 
 fun and played it to the end AND then installed it again a few months later and played the entire 
 thing once more. I can't say that for most games these days, so I have to give B&W a high score. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugh000270
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Black and White 2 is pretty impressive with its new details and graphics and also the sounds although 
 some bugs can be find in it like the ape not transforming right into its alignment.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is not so much good since you just get to play only campaigns and 
 no other and the AI enemies are pretty easy to defeat even with their sheer numbers. What's good 
 in the gameplay is that you get to play as a god and you can control your own virtual pet from 
 the Ape to the Cow. Its gameplay might be a little good but you will find it to be a little boring 
 since with the lack of Single Player or Sandbox modes also the multiplayer.
  
  Graphics
  
  Its graphics is very impressive since with the large number of improvements done to the game 
 especially the spells and the buildings especially the Wonders.
  
  Sound
  
  Its sounds are also pretty impressive especially when you here the rise of the volcano to the battles 
 of your men and your creature although some musics are always repeated during battles and there 
 are no musics when no battles are happening except only for just 1 music.
  
  This game is worth the time playing and buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stove11
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 10, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  I played Black and White 1 a bit so I thought id go for this one, I was a tad dissapointed.
  
  The game is very repetative, build houses &gt; build armies &gt; kill &gt; win &gt; repeat. 
 This makes it hard to stay interested past 4 levels, The game can be fun throwing rocks around 
 and other god powers but even destroying little peoples houses can get boring after a while, everything 
 in this game gets repetative and the creature fighting is flawed as theres always that one soldier 
 your creature cant seem to step on.
  
  The graphics were impressive in this game as is the way your creature can grow but you have to 
 be able to play the game long enough to appreciate that.
  
  Personal Opinion: Rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoonasofEstonia
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 30, 2007 2:37 am PT
Review:  Well what i have to say about this. When i first had the game i think why there are soo few spells. The 
 series first game was lot of better. More freeform, spells and soo on. At the first real level where 
 you must aling the norse at your side i wonderd why they wont break thro my walls and attack they 
 just stayed. That was boring thu sitt in my city and imperess them. I'd like to solve the lands by 
 quests not just imperssing or conquering them. Another bad thing that the gods are removed from 
 the game. It was cool to dogfights between gods using fireballs or rocks. But the graphical side 
 is good so also the music. I also ask why there are no ships. It is also funny to bombard them by 
 ships destroy them. Finaly the game stabitly is good.
  
  
  PS: Peter Molyneuxs or what i advise that when you create a third b&amp; w add lots of gods, funny 
 places, freeform gameplay, more people and quests
  
  That is all.
  
  Quoting the yogi from b&amp; w 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikos11
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  Very impressive game. Only the thounght that you will be a god, makes you love it! Well you can do 
 a lot of good and bad things like pick up a giant rock and throw it on your enemies or help your 
 villagers gather the needed corps, wood or ore. You can also build a huge army and drive them into 
 battle, and even hepl them defeat your enemies using magic powers like fireballs or a storm of meteors 
 or you can use rocks, trees or even your own villagers! Another thing that makes you love it is the 
 gameplay. You can zoom out and see the whole land that you are playing at or zoom in and walk on 
 the streets of your own town. You can also complete side missions on every land! The city building 
 is another exciting thing. You only have to drag the building you want and place it in your infuelence 
 ring which grows by adding more and more buildings. There are many ways to complete your mission: War 
 like i said before or you can impress other villages and make its poeple come to yours. The pet 
 is the whole meaning of the game. You make it grow up and kill your enemies with it. You can learn 
 him what is good and bad like learning it to hepl the villagers to gather the crops or learn it 
 to eat your people.
  It can also help you build a temple by using its magical powers! The graphics are very cool and 
 realistic. You can see even the oceans riples when you drag your hand over it. In my opinion this 
 game is perfect and i would like to thank the Black &amp; White 2 team because they gave the PC 
 gamers a good reason to continue playing on their PC.
  Thanks for reading my review. If you want a taste of the game, download the demo or buy it to enjoy 
 the ultimate gaming experience in a mixed sim and RTS PC game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalasas
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 14, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  its a good game.. no replay value however.
  
  you cant play skirmish or even a multiplayer game.
  you cant change your team, and you cant play 
 a sandbox of sorts.
  
  all you get is the campaign, wich is long- and fun , dont get me wrong.. its just that once you 
 beat it twice, there is no point in having the game any longer.
  
  basicly you are a god, good or evil... good is the hardest to be, and the campaign is hardest when 
 being good, when your evil, ya can just fire a volcano at your enemies and watch em burn... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brhisawsome
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  
  gameplay in black and white is pretty awsome. its kinda like a city builder but you have this god 
 guy that runs around and you can train him to do stuff. thats good and all but i found that the 
 levels are really repetitive, the only difference in between levels is that theres a new enemy 
 and he might recide to war or building. yea in the game you can either win by making your city 
 pretty, or by war and just wipe out the nation. the latter is the easiest.
  
  
  the graphic in this game are 
 pretty awsome. you have a 3D cam that can zoom in pretty far and all the units are pretty different
 
  
  
  nice soundtrack with ould skewl tunes and sreams of nerdds getting crushed by a rock
  
  
 
  good for a while, nice graphics, ok story, nice sound
  
  
  gets old fast, no realy point in the missions 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armalite1016
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  This is just an all around fun and great game. An amazing departure from the generic strategy games 
 out there. It is like a mix between a city builder, a RTS, and a pet simulator, not to mention 
 a humorous game at that. Gameplay-
  
  as it is sweet! Instead of an what most games use, the arrow, you get to use the hand in this game, 
 and it is nothing like an arrow, because you can actually have to hand do stuff, such as pick up 
 trees or rocks, yes thats right, you can actually control almost everything in the environment 
 as you will, diverging from most games, where you cant just pick up a boulder. not only can you 
 pick stuff up, but you can use them, instead of having your villagers build, you can actually drop 
 a tree into a building foundation, building it yourself wasting no time, how cool is that? and 
 instead of building up huge armies to fight invaders, why not just drop a gigantic rock on them? 
 or drop a fire ball on them? now all this sounds overpowering, but here is the catch, you have 
 an area of influence , which is a green right around your town which grows bigger as more people 
 come into your city and as you build more buildings. you can only do things such as picking up 
 things and stuff within your influence ring. this prevents you from just dropping rocks onto enemy 
 buildings or taking all their trees, or even throwing their villagers to their deaths, so it is 
 actually very balanced. Instead of building or buying people like you would in most strategy games, 
 you have to actually have people in your town do what the game calls breeding which is basically 
 a more realistic approach to population growth than other games which is really cool, and it helps 
 the game seem more real, although it is very far from real. Also unless you assign villagers to 
 a certain task, they will actually walk around the city living their own life and doing various 
 things, which although it may not sound like much is extremely cool and literally rings the city 
 to pure life. other games villagers will just work on resources and stuff so it doesnt really capture 
 that city type feel, but this you will see dozens of people just walking the streets, kids will 
 be running around in the nursery and people will actually go to watch shows in the amphitheatre. 
 yes, people can actually use the buildings you build, like you if build a nursery, people will 
 actually drop their kids off at it and same with other buildings, and its all random, which is 
 exactly what makes the game so cool. the controls are really easy (although it can sometimes be 
 hard to pick or choose the right thing with your hand) the main aspect of the game is choosing 
 whether to be good or evil. if you are good then you win by building a big city, if you are evil 
 you just build huge armies and take over each island. when i said huge armies, i didnt just add 
 the word huge to spice up the sentence. basically you can have as many soldiers as there are men 
 in your city (as long as you didnt assign them to a task previously) also keep in mind there is 
 as far as i know no pop cap like in other games, and you build villagers by breeding if you do 
 not appoint any men any tasks, you could in theory have thousands of soldiers in an army. that 
 is a lot haha, and it would as i am gonna guess bring the framerate down a lot, but it is possible 
 my biggest ever army was 650 men, and my city was only decent in size. so when i said huge armies 
 i meant it. of course to get over 1000 troops you would have probably won that particular map by 
 then anyway because your city grew so big, since you cna win by impressness, but ill go over that 
 once im done talking about combat. basically (if you choose the path of war) you will engage in 
 some really big battles, and in the tradition of braveheart they are epic, messy, chaotic, and 
 just amazing to watch. the soldiers will just mix in a fury of swords and arrows and clash into 
 huge epic battles, and you cannot really even see everything that is going on it is so chaotic, 
 that may sound like a detriment, but believe me, watching it is a completely different story. winning 
 by impressiveness is the way to go in the earlier levels, but you may have to turn to war in the 
 latter levels. winning by impressiveness is basically just building up your city so big that all 
 the other cities on the map want to join it is pretty easy, but can becasue a hassle when enemies 
 keep attacking you, but like i said that doesnt really happen in the first few levels, so dont 
 worry. your creature is the coolest part of the game, and trust me he will grow on you, and will 
 become your friend. you can teach him stuff and he is just really cool. he can also serve as a 
 powerful military unit, and can take use several squads of soldiers before taking too much damage, 
 creature vs creature fights are like the icing on the cake for this game, the first duel you experience 
 is like the coolest thing ever. your conscience is also a really funny part of the game, and th 
 fat angel and the devil with man boobs will also become your friends throughout the course of the 
 game.
  
  graphics-
  
  the water looks incredible, and the islands look really cool, the graphics are pretty good, but 
 nothing revolutionary. everything does have a somewhat mythological-greece type look to it, which 
 is perfect for the setting, so they really hit the environment and atmosphere graphical areas spot 
 on
  
  sound-
  
  the voices are a bit repetitive such as your enemy's thoughts but other than that they are good 
 sounds.
  
  value-
  
  this is the one low to the game, there are only 9 lands in the game, the first 2 of which are tutorial 
 lands, so basically you have 7 lands to play on, and if you count out the last level (which isnt 
 really like the traditional land) you only have 6 real deep lands to play on, and to further this 
 problem the early ones ere very easy, maybe only taking an hour or so to complete if that, you 
 can go to the beginning of the game again after you beat it with all your unlocked buildings, but 
 that might be too easy after unlocking all that and going back to such an easy level, but the end 
 lands do take quite some to complete, but it still doesnt make up for the lack of lands to play 
 on, the least they could have done is offer a random map skirmish type option for non-story gameplay. 
 that would have been really cool, just pick a random island and an enemy, and then play it out, 
 that could have brought the value up a lot.
  
  overall-
  
  nothing short of superb, and deserves the 9 rating i think. it's too bad there are so few levels 
 in this game, or even the lack of just skirmish type play, because this could have been the perfect 
 game, but it is still the best strategy/city builder around in my book, not to mention virtual 
 pet sim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  A return to Eden
  
  Lionhead are visionary developers and solely responsible for more sleepless nights and torn hair, 
 than most developers on the face of the planet. Peter Molyneux has made quite a few innovations 
 during his time and brought gaming forwards with such titles like Populous and Syndicate. He was 
 responsible for depriving me of much sleep a while ago with Black and White and the addon Creature 
 Isle.
  
  So now here we are in 2005 and Black and White 2 has hit the shops a few weeks ago, the question 
 however I am sure people are wondering isdoes the game bring to the table any advances on Black 
 and White?
  
  Story
  
  Your people, the Greeks are in trouble and you are called from the vast depths of space and time 
 to help them by a pure prayer. The Aztecs are laying waste to Eden with their warlike ways and 
 as a newborn god you must follow the path of Good or Evil as you either win the people with mercy 
 or frighten them with tyranny. Gameplay
  
  If youre familiar with the previous game then youll be able to jump into B&amp; W 2 without too 
 much trouble, there are also a couple of tutorial islands thatll give you a decent grounding in 
 the skills needed to guide your fledgling creature and people through each of Edens various different 
 islands.
  
  Im not going to tread over old ground with the review; if you want to learn about B&amp; W then 
 youre going to have to track down a copy of the game and the expansion. Nothing much has changed 
 in the way that you do things in the sequel, you still have the hand and its capable of operating 
 within your influence just like the first game. You can pick up trees, rocks, people and so forth 
 just like before.
  
  Youre going to be doing one of two things or a mixture in this game: and thats winning people 
 over with impressive building skills or waging bloody war and taking over towns/butchering armies.
 
  
  What has changed is the way that you now have a town centre rather than a large temple, the town 
 centre displays several things such as the peoples desires and their next most wanted building. 
 You can build as a god inside your influence by choosing the construction menu from the toolbar 
 or directly dragging a building plan from the town centre. This little toolbar addition makes getting 
 at all the pertinent information a joy, the interface has been suitably redesigned and everything 
 you need can be accessed quickly with this bar or a hotkey. You can also drag a building blueprint 
 from another building as it is being constructed, allowing you to quickly create groups of structures 
 with little or no problem. But you should pay attention to the villagers happiness; if you put 
 too many structures together you can create a slum-like area, or decrease the impressive look of 
 your housing. Icons appear to indicate the current levels of such things, smiley faces in different 
 colours for example: bright green for uber happy and deep red for seriously upset.
  
  While were dwelling on the subject of building in the game, there are walls now and also roads 
  these function on a very intelligent system and they will actively try to link up with houses 
 and structures that are close by. Each time you make a new structure your towns impressiveness 
 will raise, if you get a certain amount people from far and wide will want to come and join you 
 in your settlement.
  
  You can click-drag out roads or walls from existing roads or towers and this quick and easy system 
 means youre able to construct some pretty impressive looking places, walls and roads can also 
 be restricted to just straight lines for that Roman look.
  Fields will fill to boundaries, the same with meadows and I have to admit that one of the joys 
 of playing the game is town/city construction. Its a simple/clever/effective system that means 
 you dont have to worry too much about details and can build quickly/cleanly on the map. The more 
 buildings you place, the more impressive your town/city becomes and adding certain buildings gives 
 you more influence, spreading your godly power towards other areas of the map. Black and White 
 2 is full of new structures, there are also new miracles for you to cast and a new system of control 
 has been implemented for your creature.
  
  There are now more leashes, these are great ways of assigning a role to your creature (of which 
 there is a small and very limited selection this time around) (Ape, Cow, Lion, Wolf with the Tiger 
 being an unlockable available for those that buy the special edition of the game) . There are leashes 
 for building, fighting and gathering for example. However these will deplete your creatures free 
 will and turn him from an engaging pet to a dumb as a post machine.
  
  The creature education system has been improved; you can see now what the creatures thinking and 
 what hes planning to do allowing you to quickly reward/punish him. Theres also a section upon 
 the toolbar where you can review all the things your creatures found out so far, fine-tuning them 
 by clicking and administering the correct punishment or reward.
  
  The people you have in your village will also go around doing their jobs, some will wander into 
 fields and farm them, and some will go around and mine or gather various resources like wood. Of 
 course as a god you can create dedicated followers to do those things, which means youre free 
 to concentrate on other matters like using your powers to god-build structures, which consumes 
 a little of the resource but builds it a lot faster than your disciple builders.
  
  You can assign your people building roles, foresters, miners, farmers and a few others, need a 
 few more people in your village  assign some breeders and make sure your folk are happy by providing 
 various civic buildings for them, like the tavern and temple. Every action you do in Black and 
 White 2 has something it affects, so if you build a tavern near a mill, expect the mill to suffer 
 in production.
  
  The Good/Evil choices in the new game are fairly well defined and you can see directly what kind 
 of action youre performing, for example rip out a treethats evil, put it back and water it with 
 a miracle and thats a bunch of good. You will also see your land/village/creature change depending 
 on alignment.
  
  Just as in the first game your creature will grow as time passes, his body/look changing depending 
 on how much he eats and how much he works out (yep he can weightlift rocks, trees, villagers) .
 
  
  Theres a lot more that I could cover but it seems that Peter M has indeed added a bunch of new 
 Civilisation style options/features to the game that allow you to concentrate on being a non-aggressive 
 deity if you desire.
  
  Of course if youre anything like me youll want to wage war as well, so theres a simple RTS troop 
 system built into the game where you can have soldiers, archers and siege machines to conquer your 
 foes with. Build an Armoury, Ranged Armoury or a Siege engine building and then take a flag from 
 it, drag out a circle and voila youll recruit your armed forces.
  
  Your armies level up when theyre successful in combat and grow stronger; they can also be merged 
 with other similar forces to make bigger/better armies. The RTS/combat element does feel a little 
 tacked on however and will probably only appeal to those fans of such games like Rome: Total War 
 but what you get does its job well enough and provides another option for winning the map.
  
  You can use them to take over towns, select the town you want to assault and then theyll rush 
 there and attempt to take it over. If youre successful youll have another town to look after 
 and keep happy, this will add to your impressiveness too.
  
  So basically in B&amp; W 2 you can either wage war, take over towns using impressive building skills 
 and leave your armies for defence or mix it up a little. But remember that war is evil and youll 
 be heading down that road if you use military force.
  
  There are silver scroll challenges and gold scrolls will offer missions that advance the story, 
 when you complete the objectives youll be awarded a bunch of tribute (currency of the gods) that 
 allows you to buy/improve things from the tribute menu. Need a nice new temple, buy it, want that 
 fire miracle, buy itwant to power up your creature into a lean mean fighting machine, buy it with 
 tribute.
  
  Some of the silver scroll challenges are simple, but some of them are extremely tricky to get to 
 grips with, the rewards are usually worth it and its wise to check your objectives from the toolbar 
 since there are some hidden ones in each land worth a chunk of tribute.
  
  Bronze scrolls hold tutorial information and are usually very useful to learn from, especially 
 the one that teaches you about another new feature in the game, yep, since you have the power of 
 a god you can change the time of day by clicking on the sky  allowing you to make your slaveser 
 peoplework constantly, or give them a nice long rest. Graphics
  
  Youre going to need a pretty souped-up machine to get the best out of Black and White 2; well 
 make no bones about this right here and now. I tested the game on an FX-5200 and even with that 
 card it looked very good. When I put it on an ATI X800 however I was able to see the graphics at 
 their very best.
  
  The game features some jaw-dropping and impressive graphics using all the new eye candy special 
 effects and twiddles you would expect from next-gen graphics. The islands themselves are gorgeously 
 created and the water looks wonderful, reflecting the stars at night and the dance of the sun during 
 the day. The buildings are nicely made and each tribe has its own distinctive style, with everything 
 turned up full there are so many little touches you miss if you dont have a powerful card.
  
  You get fields and grass, fur on your creature and even tiny ants when you zoom in with the 
 camera, which now zooms in and out further than before. The fields fill with crops and the whole 
 game comes to life with vibrant colours.
  
  The shadows and lighting in the game are another nice point, they really do enhance the world and 
 the system can be seen at work when you alter the day/night as a god, the sweep of long shadows 
 as night falls or the blaze of the sun across the sea in the morning is truly superb.
  
  Animations
  
  The creature steals the show with its animations, capable of many facial expressions 
 and motions it comes to life before your eyes. Its also a pretty good dancer and each creature 
 has an individual way of doing things, which calls on the powerful animation engine. As for the 
 rest of the world/units and other features, the animation is as we would expect from the developers 
  good stuff.
  
  Level Design
  
  The maps are all well put together, fairly big and some of the islands will take you a while to 
 conquer. If you want to earn all the tribute and find all the secrets you should be spending quite 
 a time on each island, since there are numerous Easter eggs hidden around on the levels.
  
  Overall the level design is cohesive and effective. I am more than pleased with the challenges 
 each one offers and the overall look is individual enough not to seem like a repeat of the last 
 level.
  
  AI
  
  Villager AI is good enough for them to do the task theyre assigned, creature AI is still a bit 
 ropey but a solid improvement upon the first game. Your creature actually seems to learn a lot 
 better now and doesnt have as many stupid moments, its also an engaging AI and capable of some 
 nice little tricks, actions. Soldier AI is a little dumb and lets the game down in the wargame 
 aspect to be honest, they could have spent some more time fine-tuning both the players soldiers 
 AI and the enemy AI. I have seen enemy AI just sit there and leave a defenceless town alone while 
 it let me build walls and fortifications.
  
  When your creature learns about battle and the use of miracles, he will try his best to adapt to 
 the current situation. He will cast offensive miracles and try to optimise his attacks onto the 
 most dangerous units first, this behaviour is a vast improvement over the other game and while 
 it still needs significant tweaking it certainly proves that Lionhead have been listening to their 
 fans.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound in the game is great; the world comes alive with subtle ambient audio as well as the 
 clash of steel in battles, the roar of flames from a fireball miracle and many other effects. Black 
 and White 2 has no problems in the spot effects, ambient or the myriad of other audio effects in 
 the game. It uses the latest in EAX technology and compliments the graphics completely.
  
  Music
  
  A nice score accompanies the game and thats all I can really say, nothing truly stands 
 out but its nice music to listen to. Voice
  
  Lionhead are more than willing to camp things up, if you ever saw the Boat Builders and their song 
 in the first game, youll know what I mean. B&amp; W 2 is no different and their voice actors are 
 excellent, they bring to the table quirky characters and a myriad of accents. My only gripe is 
 that I wish I could shut the Norse guy up, since as a god all I have to do is concentrate and I 
 can hear his thoughts.
  
  After several repeats of: I hate these Greeks or, who do these Greeks think they are? I wanted 
 to kill him and raze his lands to ashes.
  
  Apart from that the voice acting in the game is top notch.
  
  Multiplayer?
  
  Perhaps in 
 a patch, but for now all that B&amp; W 2 offers is Singleplayer and no skirmish/sandbox mode.
  
  Gripes
  
  Black and White 2 had several game disrupting bugs at release but Lionhead released 
 a patch at launch, this patch was not compatible with previous save games but fixed a number of 
 things that needed fixing. For a list of bugs and additions, find the patch on Lionheads Website
 
  
  But my gripes are firmly focussed on the lack of Skirmish and MP modes, not to mention the poor 
 RTS style game element and AI for the troops. You can often trick them by getting them stuck in 
 walls for instance and then raining fire down on their heads, not really a good challenge. The 
 official forums are full of threads like this, so its not just only me that thinks this way. Black 
 and White 2 is still a good game and well worth getting if you liked the original or you want something 
 a little different. I had a few problems with dodgy creature AI at one point but the AI in general 
 is a lot better than the previous game so I am willing to let them off with that one.
  
  Pros: Great graphics, comedy, expressive audio and excellent interface with good quality RTS style 
 building. Better creature AI.
  
  Cons: Singleplayer only, no Skirmish/Sandbox mode, poor RTS wargame element and ropey RTS AI. Opponent 
 leader/god AI is poor. Limited creature choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somecoolname
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 25, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  i like how in this game and few other games let u choose to be evil or good by giving u options 
 and alignment bars. The creatures and pets r pretty sweet to. I like the new buildings and miricles 
 i say if u r looking 4 a new game to keep u stimulated and busy this game is in go now get out 
 of ur seat go to the store buy it open it up plop it in install it and enjoy hours of playing. One 
 thing i like about this game is everytime u play it change no matter how hard u try to make it 
 the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlhagad
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 22, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  In Black &amp; White you play the role of a god. Now, this comes with all the perks and responsibilities 
 of a god. You have to take care of your followers and build a flourishing nation. And then there's 
 the occasional rival that you have to crush into a pulp. Now, what makes B&amp; W 'black' and 'white' 
 is that you have the freedom to choose your own path as a god. You can be a benevolent loveydubby 
 god or you can be an evil god and own enemies with flying balls of flame.
  
  Black &amp; White 2 is very much if not exactly like its predecessor, except instead of being bad 
 or good, you can be gray. Okay, I know that didn't make much sense. Let me put it this way, with 
 B&amp; W2 you'll probably have to mix elements of good and evil together to win. You're still stuck 
 under the Bad or Good category though. There's a story too.
  Aside from your kingdom you're also provided with a pet than you'll have to 'raise'. By assigning 
 it tasks and petting it or slapping it once in a while, it will develop a sort of personality that, 
 much like his master, can be considered good or evil. Now for the review: First of all, the graphics 
 are BEAUTIFUL. Stunning environments and an incredible zoom feature make for an amazing gaming 
 experience. If you're lucky you may even get to see little ants crawling on the ground. The physics 
 engine isn't something to be left out either. I think it's absolute genius how they get things 
 to be so realistic. Try throwing rocks at walls and buildings to see what i mean. Another feature 
 that i like about the game is that you now have a story to play, even if it's nothing an RPG fan 
 would commend. Actually there's so much more to enjoy in this game, like quests, miracles, god 
 powers, badass wonders and the ability to throw around almost everything.
  Sadly, even great games have their flaws. You'll probably notice B&amp; W2's flaws early on in the 
 game. First of all there's the navigation system. Even after hours of playing it still gets annoying. 
 The problem is that everything's got to do with the mouse. They didn't add any keyboard+mouse options. 
 From rotating the camera, adjusting the vertical angle, the height and the zoom, you'll have to 
 do all this with the mouse WHILE tinkering with your kingdom. Secondly, there's controlling your 
 armies. Here's the problem: with their control system you only get to control one unit at a time 
 and to see their status you'll have to hover your mouse over them for a few seconds and a barely 
 readable text will show up and if you're lucky you'll be able to read the health and state of your 
 soldiers. Controlling them can be a nightmare too as they sometime automatically engage units even 
 if they know they have no chance in hell of winning. Other minor problems are getting your kingdom 
 under attack while doing sidequests and having your pet stuck between your buildings. No, he doesn't 
 know how to tiptoe over tiny houses and lamp posts. And at high populations a majority of your 
 people may just stand around doing nothing instead of fulfilling their responsibilities. Overall, 
 I think it's a great game! I recommend it to all RTS fans and all other gamers who just want to 
 experience the life of a god. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_emu_hunter
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 18, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  I really like the game cause it takes time to win and there is a lot of destruction. You can throw 
 people around, cast fire balls, starve or feed people, poison them, strike them with lightning, etc. basicly 
 a lot of ways to kill a man. I dont like the creatures cause they are stupid but you can train it, put 
 tatoos, teach it how to fight. There are only seven levels so its not very hard to complete the game 
 but just throwing vilagers around is great fun wich can last for hours. You can play online against 
 youre friends. It is really revolutionary game and it is really great. I would sugest it to everyone 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_elad_69
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2006 5:02 am PT
Review:  is you love strategy games you will full inlove with this game... wich is great in every way you 
 look at it you can control a bigass lion or wolf or cow or monkey (...?) coolllllllllllll
  
  les me tell you about this game a lilttle bit:
  
  GRAPHICS: great graphics that you will enjoy 
 from it as you progress in the game.
  GAMEPLAY: the best gameplay you can find in a strategy game ever!! in one mission you need to help 
 to a begginer monk that is suppused to break a rock and you have to help him break the rock (daa) 
 and your enemy has bigass animels like the four i said in the top and there are smart too... did 
 i forgot to tell you that your animal can grow and become fat? or have **** muscelles? they can 
 plso die in the battlefield... and poop on humans head... thats funny stuff... you can even hit him 
 or play with to tell him if the things he does are good or bad
  SOUND: regular sound in this strategy game
  
  actully this game is not really strategy because 
 you can choose if you want to be good or bad... and your animak will change with you
  if will be a bad god you will have a bad animal... cool
  
  and there a thousand more options 
 but i dont want to write them so buy and play the game and will alredy fall in love with it.
  
  thats it for my review
  
  BUY BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceCold54
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Well, when i first heard of this game, the concept of it interested me, so i thought it was worth 
 a try. The game is amazing and brings a completely new type of gameplay to the market (aside from 
 Black and White1) . The only way to describe this is to say it's like The Sims game mixed with an 
 RTS. -Gameplay- You're basically a god that builds his city with elements of helping the people 
 of your town, keeping them happy, getting food for them, and just control how they live; this is 
 the general gameplay. You also have a pet, which can be pretty useful at times, or... be tedious. 
 He can help you with keeping the town in good shape or in battles, but sometime can just be nuisance 
 to keep up with. Each level lasts quite a while and the farther you get into the game, the longer 
 they last; some last 3-4 hours, but in my opinion, this is what makes a fun game because you can 
 be creative. This game will keep you addicted for quite a while, but after a while you'll just 
 lose the urge of wanting to play it if you dont play it frequently. -Graphics- The graphics are 
 amazing even at the moment. With the graphics cranked up all the way, there are many cool details. 
 For example, if you move your hand across the grass, the grass will sway with your hand , or if 
 you zoom in enough to a certain spot of grass, you can actually see little ants crawling around.
 
  -Sound- The sound is excellent. The effects of water and fire and everything are done well. The 
 winds high in sky are astounding and you can hear the environment around you. Overall, this game 
 is simply great. I recommend anyone interested into RTSs with new gamplay to try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parry100
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 3, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  As I've classified, it's rather hard to describe my feelings about this game, which hardly justifies 
 why I'm writing a review... but there's some points I need to stress.
  
  Now, the graphics may be beautiful, but beauty is only... TFT deep? :|
  
  It's not that the 
 games bad, but, comparing it to its predecessor, I think lionhead may have load the one element 
 that separated Black &amp; White from the rest, the good old element of fun. Excuse the cliche.
 
  Lets look at what was needed on the first... well, there was the building a few buildings, doing 
 some tasks, and taking over the world. Yip. Fun.
  
  The new. Well, there's building up a city that has to be beautiful, civic, easy to get around, 
 walled.... and so on.
  Then you need an army which is quite frankly a micromanagement nightmare. Then, the next level, 
 what am i doing? Well slap my thigh and call me cowboy! The exact same!
  I found myself annoyed far to many times.
  
  All points and flaws aside, it remains a good 
 game. It's addictive.
  
  Then there's the creature element, still fun.
  
  I apologise for not writing a full review exactly, but the games sort of... that beautiful dumb 
 girl.... Attractive, but you wouldn't want to marry her. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSayan7Goku
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2006 3:16 am PT
Review:  OMG! I've been dreaming this game since I first saw a computer , but I would have never imagined 
 it to be like this. I mean you are a god , you can build a strong civilisation , have superpowers 
 , create massive armies and you can raise a little animal to grow big as a mountain and it will 
 actually think! It can be good or bad , that depends on your alignment , it can also cast spells 
 and it can help your people by gathering wood , ore or wood , it can be an entertainer ... etc. 
 anyway my point is the EVERYONE MUST PLAY THE GAME , even grandma: P. So get the demo try it and 
 have some fun. For those who already have it , you should play it for about 1 or 2 years: P: P! THANKS 
 for reading my review, have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 3, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of the first game. It was flawed, but over all it was a new side to gaming and 
 that in itself is always a delightful feeling.
  
  This version has differences, but the overall gameplay is a better result. Teaching the little 
 blight bringer has greatly improved and that in itself makkes it a lot more playful. There is a 
 better way to get the resources and results that make this game a better game all together.
  
  There are a few things that make the game a little less, (like the circle of influence) But 
 a better playable game.
  
  If there is one side that was missed out on then it is the one task of missionary. That task made 
 it interesting and tactical to take over other villages. Here, your powercentre will always be 
 your city. Making resources another issue.
  
  It is clear that a few more improvements can be made for Black and White 3, but i feel that this 
 is a good result. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamzer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  _This game has amazing graphics and gameplay. Black and White 2 is the sequel to Black and White. This 
 time you have to restore the Greeks to their former glory as they were defeated by the Aztecs and 
 were on the verge of extinction. You take over cities by impressing them with huge happy beautiful 
 cities or take over other cities with huge armies which is also a new feature to the game.
  _It features an all new interface as you can click and drag houses to place them you can speed 
 up the building progress by taking a hand full of wood hold the hand over a unbuilt structure click+hold 
 the left mouse button and the structure will be built in a matter of seconds. The city will look 
 different to how you play it can have beautiful gardens fountains with sprinkly water bright sunny 
 skies with huge buildings or cracks in the surface of the earth thunder and lightning miserable 
 huts etc.
  _You still have a creature like the first game only this time you can give him specific job to 
 do. He is able to interact with loads more things, he will say if he is hungry or sad or wants to 
 entertain. Depending on how evil or good you are your creature will look different. If your pure 
 evil he will have gray hair big sharp teeth and claws. But if your nice, friendly and good your 
 creature will have gold shiny hair and will help peope and entertain them. Your creature can also 
 take part in wars create miracles and has godly powers.
  _In my opinion it is a really good game anyone who likes rts or god games should give this a try 
 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemesis2403
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This is well worth the money. The storyline is simple: your mighty Greek capital is overun by the 
 Aztec hordes! With survivors you must re-build your empire. But you need support, the Norse and 
 the Japanese will help whether they like it or not!
  
  The gameplay element is well balanced, your main objective is always to conquer the enemy at hand. 
 How you do that is up to you. You can either build your empire and tempt the peoples to your city 
 or build your armies and put them to the sword! Either way is challenging and dramatic. You'll 
 need to manage everything from food to ore ensuring the people and the armies get their piece which 
 isn't always easy. It's a game of supply and demand. As a good deity managing what your purchase 
 with tribute and the ore is your main strategy. Variation and location is the key. If your evil, 
 build your armies, manage your resources and work your way to the enemy capital taking any strategy 
 you wish! Whatever method you choose is always different and always inspiring.
  
  The graphics are also incredible! The whole island shifts with your alignment ranging from a flowery 
 paradice to a fiery hell. Every detail is perfect. You can see every strand of hair, everything 
 blade of grass and every cloud particle. Dazzling! The sound is also good. It's very dramatic and 
 beds perfectly with every action and event in the island.
  
  The best thing though is the physics. Everything can picked up, thrown and/or poured. If you break 
 down a chunck of your enemies wall you can pick that up and use it as a weapon. You can set trees, 
 rocks or even your own villagers on fire and hurl them at your enemy. Anything is possible! Use 
 your imagination!
  
  There are flaws though. The game can be quite buggy and the AI is rather stupid. AI soldiers often 
 confuse themselves and are always stuck on the same tactics. Also, if you beat the enemy to the 
 last individual, the computer has a tendancy to just spawn soldiers which lacks realism and purpose 
 but does offer a challenge. Also the opposition has little awareness. Even if the Japanese has 
 armies of 20 soldiers and you have 200, they'll still be cocky boasting: Your armies? Bow to the 
 might of my armies! 
  
  This is well worth the buy, it's addictive and always different. Although their are flaws, they 
 rarely become an extremely frustrating issue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fragasnap
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  I'm a fan of the first game, and despite the fact that I could never get past level 3 of Black 
 &amp; White 1, I'm here to tell you about Black &amp; White 2.
  
  In Black &amp; White 2, the idea is basically the same as the first. You are a god, and must help 
 your people conquer your enemies, and retain faith in you, but whether you're good or evil... that's 
 up to you.
  
  Unlike the first one, you can have soldiers, which those who survive in battle will grow in skill, 
 and become able to kill more and last longer.
  You also can see what is happening to your alignment, if youre turning evil or good.
  
  The 
 game now revolves much more around building, while in the original; it was a pain to build a small 
 hut, let alone a large shack for all your people to live in.
  
  There is also a currency system, as you progress, you will gain more, and can purchase abilities 
 and new buildings to create.
  With one ability, you can hold down the mouse and shake your hand back and forth to hit people, 
 but this is not very useful, as most battles that take place are to far away from you.
  
  On with the actual review!
  
  As for gameplay, I rather enjoyed the fact that the game was 
 based more on building, and the soldiers were pretty cool; but there were two things that ruin 
 the whole thing, your creature and your consciences.
  
  Your creature felt empty, when you praise or scold it, you're effecting its behaviour along a certain 
 line of action, which this is normal, but it actually pops open a window and tells you specifically 
 what you're praising or scolding him for.
  It just smacks realism in the face and starts laughing with this.
  You can even open and menu 
 and choose what you want to praise or scold for, did you hear that? CHOOSE!
  
  Of course, your creature will still become good or evil depending on what you have it do, but I 
 still find it is rather dumb, I'm going to go and eat some rocks! is actually one of his behaviors.
 
  
  Now, your consciences are the worst thing this game has to offer, I'm not talking about your real 
 life one, that one you can probably live with, I'm talking about your in game good and evil conscience.
 
  
  They tell you what to do, what not to do, and when to do it.
  This is fine and dandy, at least, at the beginning of the game, but they will continue baby-ing 
 you through the whole game.
  
  In the previous game, you had a ring of influence, which if you left it, you would quickly lose 
 power, and not be able to do anything, so you can use that fact to rip a tree out of the ground 
 outside of your influence, but if you try this in this one, your conscience pops out and starts 
 yelling at you because you can do that!
  
  The graphics, look at the screen shots, gorgeous, liked the consciences looks better before but 
 still, just zoom all the way out and it is beautiful.
  The sound is on par with most other things, and does have good voice-acting.
  If you somehow 
 enjoyed playing it the first time, I guess you'd enjoy it another, I guess you could play the opposite 
 of what you were before.
  
  This game is not worth getting, the empty creatures and the baby-ing consciences, just can't be 
 made up for by pretty graphics.
  Um... that's all, so... the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdiamond50
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2007 4:00 am PT
Review:  Once you start the cities and turn your creature evil or good the game get interesting. You can 
 try to impress villages to get them to come to your land or capture the. Although capturing will 
 make you more evil impressing them doesn't affect evil. Your creature can be really fun but at 
 times annoying. It will help build what ever, attack platoons, and entertain but it gets annoying 
 when you make a platoon and your creature eats some of them. The game though good still has some 
 very annoying glitches. If you put a wall around your city the enemy armies can still go through 
 your wall. That can get annoying fast especially if your doing some side mission like a silver 
 scroll. The only way to realy stop that is to put archers on the wall and hope they will take care 
 of it. Overall this game is a must play but you should consider getting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3VOLV360
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  This beautiful looking Black and White 2 let me down as the entire focus of the game shifted from 
 take over the world to take over the world while building a city, managing an army and training 
 your creature by changing the thoughts in head . So while it seems it is just adding a lot of things 
 to do and make me look lazy, if you play the game you'll understand. But then are reviews not meant 
 to help you decide to buy it? Well I say go ahead, buy it. It is no doubt an awesome game, and 
 a system-hog, but if you're looking for the same as Black and White 1 then you might be disappointed. 
 Sadly they scrapped the skirmishes that you could play on the side.
  
  The first major focus change I found was onto tribute. Now you, as a god, need people to give you 
 praise so you can build things? Well, I guess it does make the game a bit harder, albeit not enough. 
 As if you can build a majestic enough city, the enemy's people fall in wonder. Or you can create 
 a heap load of archers and get your War Beast and go on a destructive rampage. Either way you need 
 to invest in city management as every town you take over (by force) falls into your control. If 
 you build a metropolis instead, you need to constantly expand to contain the immigrants.
  
  Creature control is a lot easier as you can access each of your creatures thoughts. Such as, Should 
 I eat trees? then slap or stroke him till you reach the desired effect. The new leashes, i. e. the 
 Soldier, Entertainer, Builder, are pretty useful if you want him in a single role. Although if 
 you train him he usually does what you want.
  
  So this game feels as if you have lost some of your freedom that you had in the prequel but the 
 graphics are simply amazing. That is if you have a high end system. With as much detail as the 
 ants on the ground to the sunsets. And not to mention that the peoples feet look much better.
 
  
  I wont say it is a major let down. Just a change from the more open ended world we once had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintivan
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Despite the many flaws of this game, it does have an addictive quality that found me playing until 
 the end. Therefore it is worth the $20 spent. Think of it as a filler between really good games 
 if you have nothing around to play.
  
  Strengths: Appealing graphics (the water effects are the best of any game) , good sound effects, 
 addictive gameplay, easy to learn, miracles are fun.
  
  Weaknesses: controls are too subtle and irritating to get done what you want with certain things 
 like laying roads and controlling your creature, irritating dialogue, dumbed-down AI, glitchy at 
 times, missions generally the same, horrible side-quests for needed tribute, whiny villagers in 
 bad british accents.
  
  If you don't like building towns, DO NOT get this game; winning by conquest is tedious (though 
 it it fun finding ways to kill enemy troops) . It is rather stupid that you lose good points and 
 become more evil when you kill troops that are invading your town. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christopher696
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  Black and white 2 may have been the only god-sim that after managing to get at the top of enough 
 Top-Ten charts remained there for several months thus writing its own page in history.
  
  Lionhead wanted to create smoothing so big, so epic that would make anyone feel like a true god. 
 So it created the first God Sim-RTS game. Everything now is up to us. We decide whether to erect 
 or destroy, following the path of good or evil through a series of challenges that we meet.
  
  One of the most difficult choices we will have to make is which path to follow since our actions 
 affect the philosophy of the game. In some parts we are called to play the role of god, performing 
 miracles and watching over our followers, while in others the role of the general, leading our 
 troops into battle. So following the advice of our good or evil conscience we form not only our 
 future but also the style of the game that is to our liking.
  
  The truth is that with absolute power comes absolute responsibility. Especially when talking about 
 gods. So it isnt always easy to force our followers to remain faithful to us. But this is where 
 fun begins! Fireballs, floods, volcanoes coming out of nowhere are some of our personal toys. Unless 
 of course we are the ones that enjoy peaceful co existence with others (yeah right) . In that 
 case we can make use of the beneficial spells like mass healing and all the other boring spells 
 a good god has at his disposal.
  
  One of the elements we really loved in the first black and white was the creature we had with as 
 since the beginning of the game. We have the same concept at black and white 2, with the only difference 
 that now through excellent graphics quality and improved A. I. its image reflects the psychological 
 state of the animal at any time.
  For example a good creature is clean happy and ready to help. However if we are an evil god, well 
 be dealing with a stinky, full of hatred and psychologically unhealthy creature, in other words 
 the perfect weapon to unleash devastating attacks through various spells against our enemies.
 
  
  The 4 tribes of the game not only have their special characteristics, like different buildings, 
 but also different way of thinking and reaction, which is really great.
  
  Black and white 2 maintains the tradition of the God-Sims, with its really amazing graphics. The 
 different spells that can only be characterized as divine, the continuous shifts between day and 
 night and the changes in the weather complete the exotic scenery of each island. But also the incredible 
 level of detail is unique.
  When it comes to sound the ambient music binds in a very beautiful way with the whole concept of 
 the game as do the many sound effects that accompany our every move.
  
  All in all, all I can say is that Lionhead has offered us a wonderful game, full of new elements, 
 capable of holding us numerous hours in front of our computer screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluestingray
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 7, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing BW2 on and off for the last 4-5 months. The gameplay is great, interesting, and 
 invoking. The software glitches are hard to get past however. I've gone through three different 
 computers trying to get this game to play without crashing, tonight I built a new computer with 
 a new ASUS SLI board, ATI 512MB PCIe card, 1GB Ram, Sata 160GB drive, XP home. We're talking fresh 
 install, new parts, latest XP updates, newest downloaded drivers, no other program installed but 
 BW2.
  BW2 still crashed on me, final error was after one hour on land 3, cannot draw on canvas . Almost 
 made me cry as I've never fought so hard to make a game work. To date, due to game glitches, I've 
 never been able to finish all the lands (thinking maybe it's part of the game, like a challenge.... lol)
 
  Regardless. Even if you have to save every 15 minutes, the gameplay is great. You'll need patience 
 for the poor programming and constant crashing. Hopefully there will be a 1.3 update, fix the glitches. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imrik2545
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 29, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong this is still a sweet game but i liked the first one better mainly because in 
 this game you seem to rely more on your armies than your godly powers (and one of the things that 
 was promised was feeling more like a god than you did in the first game) . This game just feels 
 way too much like a cheap knock off of a total war game. I love peter Moleneux and all of his games 
 but it just seems as if he always bites off a little more than he can chew with all of **** promises. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axeman2000
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Defiately has everythin' you need in a good game. that is all a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djsaskdja
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  First off I never played the original Black and White, although Ive heard excellent things about 
 it. But when my friend recommended this game to me and kept saying how good it is I decided to 
 buy it. Overall I think that it is a pretty good game but, I thought that clicking things and controlling 
 everything with the in game hand more annoying then innovative as some would call it. The game 
 is also almost unbearably glitchy, from getting stuck between buildings to enemy going through 
 walls. From the screens Ive seen this game looks very good and runs very smoothly on an expensive 
 machine. But I couldnt get the game to run right at all on the recommended settings and the lag 
 drove me nuts. Also way too much structure in the missions. I constantly felt the need to just 
 start small on an island and work my way up building an army and defenses and doing everything 
 on my terms. Not playing a highly scripted campaign mission. Id defiantly recommend this game 
 to any Black and White fan and anybody with a fairly nice machine and a lot of patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bungus5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 24, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Wicked fun. Played for 11 hours straight.
  Evil lion and evil cow are the best. To anyone who gives this game a score lower then 8, may Satin 
 himself rise from the underworld and rub around his crotch into a soapy lather of evil. Super fun 
 to do the file editing and u can do some crazy stuff. Like make the tree growth rate  
 very funny. And making a small field have around 190,000,000 food is nice and cant forget making 
 every thing cost 1 wood and 1 ore and the miracles only cost 1 mana.
  
  IN F__KING CREDIBLE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geneslivka
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 8, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be my most favorite game of all time there is no doubt about it . The fun it brings 
 me is awesome and difficult of course other wise it would'nt be called a REAL TIME STRATEGY game 
 and its hard because it involves allot of thinking and planning see thats called strategy to have 
 to perfect ending. And for those who complain that its to hard well....... thats to bad because 
 thats where all the fun comes from. Its really great with what they did with the whole God thing 
 I find it to be most enjoyable because it brings RTS to a whole new level with the many different 
 features Black&White2 brings out. The graphics are great not the best but better than most of the 
 other RTS titles there are out there and you will be needing a decent graphics of course! But lets 
 sum it all up already A; game play is super outstanding! B; graphics a great! C; pretty difficult 
 but that of course is what makes it fun. and final D; GO OUT THERE AND BUY IT AND GIVE IT A WHACK! 
 Trust me you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxMad-CowxX
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 5, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. When I first got the game I loved it. I almost beat it, but couldnt. Then I got 
 a little angry at it, and didn't play it for a while. But then I found it in my closet, and now 
 I love it again. It might get boring, but will become fun again. I love how you can choose a path 
 of Good Or Evil. If your still not sure about, try the demo first. You will love it. Trust me. 
 4 or 5 options of different animals to choose and how they act. How your people act. Its just like 
 your a GOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 3, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun game to play, but is difficult and irritating in that you pretty much have to 
 start over each time you die in order to rebuild with any kind of success. Interesing idea for 
 a game. Dispite it's originality, it lacks much interest. I hate that you have to watch the video's 
 each time you restart a level, the gameplay can be kind of glitchy, even on good systems, and there 
 are not enough creatures to choose from. The voice overs are well-done, but over-used and annoying. 
 I simply stopped playing this game after about two weeks because I was annoyed with the repitition 
 of it and the characters in the game. Part of me still wants to finish the game, but the other 
 part just doesn't want to have to listen to the characters in the game any longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eggon1
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  Black and White 2 is a ground breaking and visualing stunning game to play. It gives you more power 
 than you could imagine. The game will make you amazed on the detail put into the game. The game 
 is to be good or evil to bring the ounce greeks to power by taking over the aztecs and there followers 
 the evil or good way. By evil I mean by destroying there towns and taking over towns with army 
 force. By good I mean winning ove rthere people with impresiveness. GRAGHICS The graghics are stunning 
 exspecially if you have a good video drive that is up to date. The details go as far as flowers 
 blooming and the way the water flows down a waterfall and the shoreline with the games sunset is 
 beatiful. The graghics on the game are top notch and are amazing. You wont be disappointed with 
 its graghis power but you will want to download two patche that fix a few glitches but even without 
 them you will be amazed. SOUND Beatiful.... Everything has a sound... anaimals, falling buildings. 
 your creature, vilagers, and even nature has sounds. The sounds are perfect for the game and everything 
 sounds great. Yoiu will not be dissapointed with the sound. GAMEPLAY There isnt a game like it. 
 It is hard to explain the freedom you get and the power. You can be good or evil meaning you can 
 kill people and make your followers fear you or be good and your followers care for you and happily 
 worship you. You can have your creature kill armies and eat people or gather resources and entertain 
 people to keep them happy. You can build armies and prisons or bath's and amplitheaters for there 
 happiness. You can also cast miracles. You can cast water miricals to grow trees and crops or drowned 
 people. You can use your lighting, fire and, meteor miracles to kill armies or throw them at enemie 
 towns. You have a enfluience area were you can do what you want. VALUE With the expansion packs 
 and the games never ending gameplay you will be playing for a long time. See wants you beat it 
 you start over on the first land with all the tribute you have earned to keep the game going. Tilt 
 The tilt is probally the best thing. You probally wont see a game with the tilt this has. The freedom 
 you get will always have some kind of tilt OVERALL A must play and enjoyable experience for anyone 
 who likes city builder games or are enterested in ancient times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  Its a big dissapointment. Its trying to be to much to and just does not go really good. I bought 
 this game back when it came out just decided the write a review. Its fun but gets very old and 
 boring after you recreate your city like 10 times in a row it gets old after the first like 4 times 
 you move on. The sound is fine. Graphics fine. But value and gameplay is another story. Its just 
 to darn boring after the first few places. Your like this is lame ive recreated my city like 5 
 times. Your pet thing is really neat but after awhile your kind of like meh same old same old. 
 Value i would say its better dropping from that 50 it was. Should of started at like 30-40. Just 
 not fun for a good enough time to make it worth 50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenton_pat
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 22, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  First off, let me state that I am bias. I have played Black & white 1 and while in most cases, 
 this would make you more qualified to enjoy the second game, I believe youre as likely to have 
 slightly bitter taste in your mouth over this game as you would a sweet and savoury one.
  
  Like Jason said in his official review for GameSpot:
  
  If you felt like Black & White needed 
 more structure and "gameplay" to it, then you'll likely appreciate the changes. However, if you 
 enjoyed the freestyle nature of the original, you may be dismayed by some of the new features of 
 the sequel. And if you've never played Black & White, you'll find an original and refreshing strategy 
 game with excellent production values and a fairly unique style of gameplay.
  
  Im afraid I fall into the second option. First off, let me say I dont hate B&W2. Quite the contrary, 
 I think its quite a good game, but having played the original, I see it as more of a missed opportunity. 
 I am writing this review quite some time since the games release and so hopefully have had enough 
 time to collect my thoughts, but I warn you, this is not going to be a glowing review.
  
  Black & White 2 aims to be more focussed than its predecessor in giving the player a single goal 
 to achieve almost straight from the start. Rather than just aiming for survival like in the first 
 game, this time around, you are the god of a specific civilization  The Greeks, who have summoned 
 you to help them on the eve of a devastating attack by their enemies  The Aztecs. Starting out 
 small, the game first instructs you on some of the basic controls before sending you in to help 
 your worshippers. It is at this point that you also choose your Creature - a choice of Ape, Lion, 
 Wolf, Cow or Tiger (the last one being available only if you purchase the Collectors Edition) . 
 From here you are charged with rescuing a small number of your followers, so you may rebuild your 
 civilization elsewhere before dealing with the Aztecs. 
  
  On each land that you journey through, you will be given a clear list of objectives (some optional, 
 some mandatory) that will help you to win the land. Winning said land comes in the form of getting 
 every mortal on that rock to come around to your way of thinking and worship you. How you achieve 
 this is where the fun begins.
  
  There are basically two ways of playing the game, build a city so marvellous in its splendour 
 that your enemies villagers will migrate from their own towns to join yours or build a great army 
 from your followers to go out and conquer said villages.
  
  To aid you in either of these paths is your creature, which you must teach your own version of 
 right and wrong (for example, should he eat that womans hapless child or play with him?) so that 
 hell be of more help to you. If you want to go the city building route, then youll most likely 
 work on his resource gathering abilities and his ability to protect and maintain your town by helping 
 to build structures and defeat invading forces.
  
  Achieving this is quite simple. Your creature will have a thought about something hes just seen, 
 for example a field and a speech bubble will appear with him asking should he collect food from 
 it. You may then stroke or slap him to a certain degree in response to that. Depending on your 
 response, your creature will then do more or less collecting of food from the fields. Should you 
 slap to 100% (theres a sliding scale) , hell never collect food again and probably be a bit scared 
 of the fields from now on. You get the idea. 
  
  For either form of play, you will need access to new abilities and buildings which can be bought 
 with Tribute  something which is earned from meeting some of the objectives listed for that land. 
 You can earn more by taking on extra challenges in the form of Silver Scrolls, but at most there 
 are only two or three per land. 
  
  And here is where we come to the not-so-glowing comparison to the first game. While the purchase 
 of new abilities via some form of game currency is well established, it just doesnt fit into Black 
 & White in my opinion. Where in Black & White 1, you gained new abilities and structures via the 
 taking of new civilizations, e. g. Indian, Norse, etc., in this game you purchase them. The worst 
 part of this being that you no longer teach the creature miracles and how to use them, but instead, 
 you buy them. 
  
  In general, while probably having vastly improved AI engine, the creature is much more of a blank 
 slate this time around. You can teach him to have a very specific behaviour, but by one visit to 
 the creature menu, you can revisit all these lessons and completely change them to something else 
 if you so wish, making the previous investment you made into your creature count for naught. While 
 frustrating at times due to its buggy nature, the Black and White 1 creature teaching interface 
 was not so forgiving. But it was understandable. If you taught the creature to do something and 
 like a real pet, it would have issues if you then suddenly started trying to teach it something 
 completely the opposite. It took time and effort and you felt rewarded by the end of it. In Black 
 & White 2, its the equivalent of flipping a switch. Wheres the fun in that?
  
  The army section of the game is also notably poor and seeing as there is nothing to compare it 
 to from the original game, it fails all on its own merit. To create an army, you must draw them 
 directly from you male population. An admirable realistic trait which few RTS games follow, but 
 is then spat in the face at by the fact that the enemy AI is not restricted to the same condition. 
 It may spawn troops at will even if you have all but obliterated that towns population. It may 
 also be a form of compensation for the poor AI in general. It will only attack in piecemeal and 
 sees nothing wrong with leaving its troops standing within range of you archers. You can still 
 have a grand ole time invading other towns and taking them over; just dont go thinking therell 
 be much of a challenge from its inhabitants.
  
  The one exception to this gripe would be the enemy creature. Unless there are a sizable number 
 of your troops, a creature with access to miracles can take out quite a lot of them. The game somewhat 
 redeems itself in creature combat, both with soldiers and other creatures, giving a fully trained 
 creature a vast array of attacks to try out. But no sooner have I praised something one instant 
 than I knock it down the next. While creature fights can be vicious and entertaining, they again 
 show up a loss of quality over the original game. This time around, you cannot control your creature 
 in a fight. No matter really, because if your creature is pinned down by and opponent, a bug in 
 the game allows you to click on him and hell stand right back up. Technically, the only control 
 you have over creature fights is the amount of training youve given him beforehand. After that, 
 hes on his own.
  
  On the topic of performance, the game has a handy scalable feature that tones down the graphics 
 for those with graphics cards not powerful enough to run the more advances features, but with that 
 said, some gamers better watch out as some popular Radeon cards, e. g. the 6800 can have problems 
 running the game at a decent rate even with the graphics turned down. There is a complete list 
 of cards, but even if you do have one of them, things may run perfectly smooth. Its really a case 
 of hit or miss.
  
  The highest transgression has to go to the lack of Multiplayer and Skirmish modes. For so long 
 have these been the backbone of RTS games, but there is no sign of them here despite the presence 
 of them in the original. There had been mentions of giving multiplayer after the game released, 
 but this was a no-show. The lack of these two features makes the replayability of this game very 
 small. Play it good, play it evil and thats it. You may want to try out the different creatures, 
 but with the exception of animations and combat moves, their abilities are pretty much the same. 
 Even the release of modding tools for creating new lands and scripts is only of limited value because 
 of these missing features. Without a handy framework in the game to play this player created content, 
 people are shying away as they have to modify game files in order to play anything new.
  
  With all the above pet peeves put out of the way, there are many good things to be said of Black 
 & White 2 also. Where its predecessor was prone to crashing unexpectedly, Black & white 2 is much 
 more stable, although this is more of a simple expectation, but given how Black and White 1 failed 
 to meet it, its worth saying. Without a doubt, the graphics of this game are far superior to anything 
 else like it. Things like villagers still look a bit blocky up close, but bearing in mind the fact 
 that most God games or RTS wont even let you view things as up close as in Black & White 2, its 
 a testament to the developers and artists that we can zoom down to ground level and everything 
 still looks quite amazing. 
  
  Of special note, should be the appearance of the Creature which has seen a vast graphical improvement 
 over its predecessor in Black & White 1. A small complaint would be that despite being more animated, 
 his face doesnt seem to communicate as much as the Black & White 1 counterpart, but I put this 
 down to the fact that the creature now communicates using his thought bubbles.
  
  It has to be said that Black & White 1 was a humongous buggy mess, but it was a funny, replayable 
 buggy mess. With the noblest of intentions, Peter Molyneux set out to correct the buggy part, 
 but in so doing, he lost some of the fun aspects that made Black & White so memorable.
  
  Overall, Black & White 2 is still an outstanding game. Its just a shame that it had to come out 
 after Black & White 1. While not as polished as the sequel, a lot of the gameplay concepts in Black 
 & White 1 are still better than what replaced them making the experience for gamers who have played 
 both something of a bitter-sweet experience.
  
  To those of you whove managed to play Black and White 2 before the original, I envy you. You get 
 to enjoy a good game without it being tainted by comparisons to its arguably better prototype.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Songofthereaper
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun... I played the original and I found it a little bit on the lame side because 
 they expected you to be God like you've had experience with it. The second one helps you out a 
 little bit. They added a lot of things the 1st one lacked... including a little more diversity 
 in the people. The only thing I really missed was the multiplayer option, but I'll survive without 
 it. The creature is easier to manage, the people are easier to please, and the "impress other towns 
 so they join your town" thing works a helluvalot easier than throwing a fireball over the nearest 
 village over and over again like you had to in the first one. It does get a little old, and its 
 quite time consuming, but after you play it you begin to get sucked into it. I think my favorite 
 new thing is the battling you can do with your enemies rather than having to use your "impressing" 
 all the time. Not to mention the thought bubbles they have for the creature telling you what it 
 wants, what it wants to do, and what its thinking of doing. The graphics are a bit smoother than 
 the first one, which is expected seeing as how its been a few years. The people are no longer large 
 pixels with arms and legs. This game needs to be bought and played by people who aren't all about 
 instant action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Before writing this review I really needed to "get to know" the game somewhat better - for the 
 simple reason that it's really quite hard to classify this game.
  
  Is it a city builder, empire builder, real-time strategy or war game.
  
  In my opinion the 
 answer is simple: it's really all of the above and a bit more.
  
  Not having been exposed to the original Black and White game, I found the concepts introduced in 
 the game quite interesting, if not strange at first.
  
  However, after playing for the first few hours and not being able to stop, I soon found the only 
 real complaint I can raise about the game, namely that it almost ends to quickly. Perhaps Lionhead 
 should consider a return to the more open-ended approach followed in its predecessor as commented 
 by many reviewers.
  
  With the bad news out of the way, I must admit that the game-play is really immersive with quite 
 a few challenges and lots of things to keep yourself (and your creature) busy for hours on end.
 
  
  As far as the graphics are concerned, this must be right up there with the best of the best. In 
 fact, the graphics are excellent, but as always there's a but: you are going to need some pretty 
 up-market hardware to really get the best out of this game!
  
  The sound is pretty good as well, although there's very little innovation on this front as far 
 as I can see.
  
  All in all, if you like city building, empire building, strategy games and the like, this one is 
 a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duudeV2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 6, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  I've never played the original Black and White, so I am not going to make a review based on how 
 bad this game is compared to Black and White. I am going to make this review based on this game 
 alone.
  
  The setting for this game is: You are a god for the Greeks, in a world full of islands that are 
 inhabited by the Greeks, Aztecs, Japanese, and the Norsemen.
  
  Story: It seems that your main city is attacked by the Aztecs, and you have to start your whole 
 civilization over again. So you save a few people, and go to a new ilsand to start building up 
 your civilization.
  
  Gameplay: Now, one of the best qualities of Black and White 2 is the city building. There seems 
 to be an unlimited amount of things you could build in your city. From crap like hovels to mansions. 
 You could build armories to get armies, or Taverns for your people to relax.
  
  The other great thing about the game is the RTS feeling. Yes, not only is it a city building game, 
 you also get an RTS in it. While the RTS aspect may not be that complicated (you choose from only 
 meele combat troops or archer troops) it is fun. Although, if you are trying to conquor the land 
 by using armies, it can be a little intimidating when your rivaling civilization has 600+ troops 
 and you start off with nothing but a town square.
  
  Speaking about conquoring lands, you can do it one of two ways, or a mix of both. By being good 
 or evil. (Which is basically the whole point of the game, and you can be good or evil in just about 
 ANY way) . You can win people's choice over where they want to live by making a beautiful town to 
 increase your impressiveness, or you could make hundreds of arimes to destroy the town and eventually 
 capture it.
  
  The last part of this game is the virtual pet. I never really got into too deep with the virtual 
 pet, but I here you could go pretty far. From teaching it whether to poop on trees or to become 
 a super killing machine. This also effects how you're creature looks while it is growing up. It 
 can become as sinister looking as ever, or have a cute puppy dog face, depending on how you train 
 it.
  
  Dificulty: This game can lean on the easy side or the harder side. Most of the time it takes time 
 and patients to win towns over by impressiveness, and sometimes you need A LOT of impressiveness. 
 But winning towns over by war isn't so easy either. In the later lands, the rivaling tribe starts 
 out with 500,600,700, even up to 900 men in their army, and you start off with a townsquare demanding 
 for a storehouse. And even then it takes a while to up your population so you can create platoons 
 with 50+ men in them.
  
  But other times it takes no time at all to build up a beautiful city, and gain population.
  
 
  My only complaint is this game is short. There are only 9 lands in the whole game (1 of which is 
 a tutorial land where you just learn controls, and another is just a land where you do all of 2 
 things and leave within 5 minutes) But luckily each land can take HOURS to complete. Atleast 4-7 
 hours for each land. And you may have to restart, or may WANT to restart, to rank up more hours. 
 
  
  Oh yeah, the sandbox mode ISN'T extremely fun. You enter sandbox mode when you complete a land (meaning 
 you take it all over, so you have total control over all the land and not just your area of influence) . 
 But by the time that happens either 1) Every villager migrated to your town already so there is 
 no one left in the other towns to do anything. Or 2) Every town (including your original town) is 
 demanding one thing or another every single minute that it's not even fun to keep up with it.
 
  
  But sandbox mode did keep me going for quite a while on one or two lands. But the rest just made 
 me want to leave as quickly as possible.
  
  Also, this game has tremendous replay value. Once you finish the game, you go back to the 4th land 
 with all the items you have and tribute you gained (the currency in this game) to start over (considering 
 the first "real" land didn't have a rival tribe) . Or you could just start a new game and try to 
 go from evil to good (or vice versa) . And get some things that you could get before.
  
  But overall this is such a great game, and this is the first game I've actually played for hours 
 in a row in probably 4 or 5 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raskolnikov_usa
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  So umm yea I really didn't care to much for this one, I played through and was just left kinda 
 unfulfilled in alot of ways. I honestly expected more, and I wish that there was a campaign choice 
 to select which people you control besides the greeks. Also the gameplay was just kinda bleh after 
 awhile. If you happen to be a fan of the series give it a shot, in retrospect there are better 
 way's to invest time and money. I realize the expansions out now, but I'm not going to bother. 
 This game just didn't cater to my taste of gaming perspective (I LIKES MORE FIRST PERSON TYPES) ! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AntoniustheGrey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 29, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  With Black and White being such an interesting game, I wasn't sure what to expect of this one. 
 I was worried that it would be a game just like Black and White just using the name and not much 
 else. I was afraid of lack of new features, however, I was wrong.
  
  In Black and White 2, many things have changed. The graphics have definently approved, and there 
 are plenty of new features. Some that are really impressive is the fact that you can now amass 
 large armies to fight for you. It's really cool in this one. Also what is cool is the fact that 
 the miracles are neater now, and in my opinion, easier to achieve. There are also a host of new 
 buildlings to build.
  
  The pet system in my opinion is a lot easier to use now. You can tell what your pet is thinking, 
 and how it feels. The pet is a lot easier to interact with, and helps gameplay a lot. You will 
 find yourself quickly adapting to understanding your pet, and getting them to do what you want.
 
  
  The only bad thing about this game I would say is some of the combat between soldiers is bland 
 and unstrategic. Sometimes I find it more of being where you place your troops and where you can 
 hold, rather than strategy coming into place, so it has you racing around to defend your land.
 
  
  The music in this game is easily unnoticed, and doesn't really affect the game. Nothing special 
 or snazzy was added, however, the sound affects are pretty neat, such as the sounds of combat.
 
  
  Overall I'd say the game has definently seen some improvements, and the game overall was very enjoyable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s_c_o_o_b_y
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Many of the interesting, exciting and loveable aspects from Black and White have been replaced 
 by aspects which either dont suit the game, or are just poorly thought out.
  For instance, the innovative and charming creature from B&W has been changed into a robot. You 
 can now see the thoughts of your creature written on screen, and can act accordingly. (eg. If your 
 creature is thinking of eating one of your villagers, you may wish to slap it to teach it not to 
 do that) . Although this makes for easier creature moulding and learning, which wasnt that difficult 
 in B&W, it takes the charm away from simply watching your creature, and developing his own unique 
 character as you would a new pet dog.
  Another drawback is the new war system. This is supposed to be a god-game (with a streak of city 
 building) , but instead you have now got an attempt to add a war genre to the game. Although this 
 addition could work (but again it would be better without) , its done badly and it becomes merely 
 an irritable and monotonous part of the game.
  Another weakness B&W 2 has compared with B&W is the way you (God) react with the citizens of your 
 village. In B&W you could help out individual villagers in their personal problems, which was extremely 
 satisfying and rewarding. This interaction at a personal level with your villagers has been dropped 
 somewhat, making you feel more like a president rather than a god.
  
  On the plus side the graphics are impressive and the city building is extremely easy and fun (although 
 you get the feeling you are just building the same city over and over each level - a common fault 
 in city building games though) . The sound is very good, and the spiritual advisors remain a fun 
 part of the game, as in B&W.
  All in all, the game could have benefited from retaining more of the aspects which gave the original 
 game its charm. However, B&W 2 is still an enjoyable game which will appeal to anyone, even if 
 it dosen't live up to its older brothers exceptional standards.
  
  ps. please feel free to rate this review. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorbichov
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 16, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game is great to play, just like the original Black & White, and the addition of 
 new features is quite refreshing. However, very few of the buildings actually serve a unique purpose, 
 and the influence system has a tendency to not make sense from time to time. I also regret the 
 loss of skirmish and multiplayer modes, which made the original far more playable
  
  Graphics: Not much to say about graphics, as they are very good, and there isn't really another 
 game of this type to compare to in the same way
  
  Sound: There is no perceivable background music in-game, so the game can tend to get ghostly quiet, 
 leaving you to be startled by the smallest of event sounds
  
  Value: Not really worth your money at the original RRP, best to wait for budget pricing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 22, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  Thats right black and white has returned but now the world can be and is your battlefield. While 
 gamespot didnt find this game to be legendary I sure did! Black and white 2 is revised to the godlyness 
 it deserved in the first place. While I will agree that I too found this game to be a bit short 
 now that I look back and see that there were only like 5 islands. But those islands are plenty 
 enough to give you your fill of the new black and white. Graphics were simply beautiful my hats 
 off to lionhead studios for that 10/10 definately! But as far as gameplay goes I really enjoyed 
 black and white the citys that you could build wether being good or evil always were what they 
 are meant to be. For example if you decided to be evil you create small hovels for you people making 
 them slums sooner or later people walking in fear and working in there sad little lives as they 
 walk on the corroded ground. Or if you were good you built beautiful mansions for your people and 
 universitys and ampitheaters all on a patch of the greenest grass!
  
  Yea yea back to waging war right? Waging war is an evil act but its only evil if you invade someone 
 if you are trying to be good you can still build armys just simply dont invade inlfuence other 
 citys to join your city through the impressiveness of your towns Simply use your armys for the 
 defense of your towns. In fact you can create archers and put them on your walls thats always and 
 effective route. Waging war is fun either way you go though watching your people fight and die 
 for you is always fun right? But I thought that the only backdraw from this was experience your 
 soldiers gained. The experience system required too much battleing If i wanted seasoned veterans 
 it would take me forever to reach a level like that not to mention how many times I would have 
 to reinforce my unit to get to that level.
  
  Creature advancements have definately been a good thing your creature now no long has to sit that 
 tied to a tree and making you cast the water spell a millions times before he knows it 100%. Now 
 they are simply purchased with the tribute you gain for your achievements which have been layed 
 out to you on each island there are lots of achiements so its not too hard gaining tribute. The 
 new teaching via tribute buy makes it great for you to decide what path your creature is going 
 down. Such as if you wanted an evil war machine creature simply purachase the military upgrades 
 till eventually your creature is a master of war. Or you can purchase the gathering skills which 
 makes your creature able to help your town faster and more effectively. You have Soldier, Build, 
 Gather, Entertainer skills to pick from all having there purpose and can really sway to either 
 side of good and evil. Just because you want a war driven creature doesnt mean everyonce and a 
 while you cant make him a master builder and erect one of your temples or slummed up hovels.
  
  So much you can do in this game but ill let you explore it all as I highly recommend this game 
 to anyone just looking for some good fun. I would also recommend this game to people with more 
 of a higher graphics capability otherwise you might not get the gorgeous scenery of graphics that 
 I experienced. But either way I really really loved this game and think that you would to. A+ Hats 
 off to Lionhead Studios. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hare18
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 22, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  Black & White 2 juz na samym poczatku robi pozytywne wrazenie na graczu! Wysmienita grafika i niezly 
 dzwiek zadawalaja nasze (boskie) zmysly. Fabula gry w zasadzie wiele sie nie zmienila (dalej jestesmy 
 bogiem, mamy chowanca, poddanych, dazymy do dominacji nad swiatem, itd.) lecz doszlo kilka innowacji, 
 mianowicie mozemy teraz tworzyc armie ludzi (sa rozne typy jednostek) ktore moga za nas podporzadkowywac 
 nam wrogie osady. Kolejna innowacja to sposob budowania. Po pierwsze nie musimy juz tworzyc rusztowan 
 wyrzucajac przy tym spore ilosci drewna (jak to bylo w poprzedniej czesci) , lecz poprostu kladziemy 
 fundamenty, na ktorych nastepnie wznosza budyneki twoi ludzie, badz - UWAGA - ty sam! Jednak decydujac 
 sie na wlasnoreczne budowanie tracisz czesc zasobow. Nastepna zmiana do wlasnie zasoby. Nie jest 
 tu juz sprawa tak ograniczona jak poprzednio. Do dyspozycji i do wykorzystania mamy nastepujace 
 surowce: zelazo i drewno. ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bczican015
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 13, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Black and White 2 is a real-time strategy game for the PC. This game is the sequel to one the most 
 unique games of its time. Black and White 2 combines impressive graphics with great sound, and 
 a City Building/War game playing system. Although the system sounds perfect, the game does have 
 a few flaws.
  
  The graphics are beautiful. The environments look as if they could be touched, and they can... 
 By the players Godly hand. the trees sway in the breeze, the rocks... just sit there, and the water 
 flows through valley and ocean alike. However, because the graphics are so good, it requires the 
 latest video card to look that good. And the cards needed to run it at max capacity cost a pretty 
 penny. But the game still always looks great.
  
  The sound is good. Peoples voices are unique and complexly dialogued. And the conscience of the 
 player speaks in perfect lip-sync. The music changes with the environments and scene, and the noises 
 made by burning buildings or collapsing structures sounds real and depth full.
  
  The gameplay is very unique. The player is given a godly hand in which they use to manipulate the 
 world around them. Anything can be interacted with. The player can throw objects of any sort, like 
 rocks, trees, fireballs... and people. The hand can build things and harvest crops, carve mountains, 
 and release wolves. Anything. 
  The storyline is one of classic Good vs. Evil story, pretty basic. But the player as a god gets 
 to decide which they want to embrace. If you are Good, you help build the city, get the people 
 to like you, and love you and the city and environment you built for them. If you are Evil you 
 destroy buildings, use armies to capture towns. Torture civilians, and get them to fear your almighty 
 wrath. 
  
  The only problem with this seemingly perfect game play is that the game fails to deliver the point 
 that good or evil affects the story. Players can easily take the Evil way out and complete the 
 game in a matter of days using nothing but brute force. Although very entertaining, the player 
 will feel a pang of regret in devilishly destroying cities, and go back and try again, only to 
 be met with the frustration of being good, and once again returning to the evil path.
  
  In conclusion, Black and White 2 delivers solid graphics, sound, and story. Game play is unique, 
 inventive, and satisfying, only if the player is a direct descendant of Walt Disney, and can remain 
 completely devoid of evil through many frustrating attacks from opposing armies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 11, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  its the best game from ea games the new sieries i like this kind of games
  and the goos thing that they use the shaders model 2 with the most good effects and graphics but 
 the problim was the gameplay he was so OK but he was not so clear and the RTS mod with the army 
 was hard sometime there was problims and that what i had to tell you about it... and dont forgit 
 to see more games frome ea game like bf 2 and need for speed most wanted
  and black for the ps2 and lord of the ring Battle for Middle-earth II 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemyth
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 11, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Peter Molyneaux - Awesome, Lionhead - Great, Black and White 1 - Wonderful
  
  Black and White 2 - What the ****?
  
  This game takes everything B&W 1 did with the gameplay 
 and throws it into a meat grinder. The improved creature interface is nice, the graphics are great 
 but the army systems and the enemy ai are blatantly stupid. Not to mention that you can only access 
 higher level structures and power by staying in a level after you've beaten it or deliberately 
 sabotaging yourself in order to extend the level a bit. It's insanely easy to impress enemy towns 
 that are no where near your sphere of influence and never allow yourself a chance to maul them 
 with army tactics. Enemy ai is dumb to the point of suicide, 1 or 2 squads are sent to harass you 
 which you can kill in any number of mind-numbingly simple ways which decreases town population 
 which makes it even easier to win through peaceful methods.
  
  Not to mention, i finished the whole crap shoot in approx 5 hours of gameplaying after spending 
 about 50 bucks on it.
  
  Defiantly not the most ingenious piece of work for any company much less Lionhead of Molyneaux. 
 I'm guessing he (Peter) must not have had direct contact with the game otherwise it never would 
 have made it to production in it's current form. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickbouyounes
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 7, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  Its a great game but it has way to much old stuff in the game from the past 2. Def not worth the 
 5 year wait and hype we had to sit through. Your creature is alittle smarter and you can build 
 some new stuff that adds to the game. But they set up some kind of buying systems thats not that 
 cool and even tho you can build armys you barely even have to use them. Your creature is so powerful 
 he can protect you almost all the time. You usaully just end up focusing on building your city 
 and then next thing you know your already won the map. The brand new mircles like volcano's and 
 tornado's are way over rated because by the time you get enough mana to do actaully do won youve 
 already won. Basicly its still a great game but doesn't live up to the hype. If you are a fan of 
 the old 2 then you should def buy this one two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manaka-kun
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 12:46 am PT
Review:  Ok, as practically everything related to this game states, you play god to a small tribe of Greeks 
 who survived the Aztec onslaught, and using your fighting or impressing powers (aided by a gigantic 
 creature and a handful of miracles and epics) , you must recruit the Norse and Japanese to help 
 you get vengeance. How, might you ask? Fighting. This game has a huge fighting focus, yet does 
 the rest make it worth the money? Short answer (in my opinion) : Yes.
  
  The game-play in this game revolves mainly on the three C's: Creating, Controlling and Conquering. 
 Creating means you must start from a simple town center with a dozen or so Greeks and build yourself 
 a new city, a clean slate, on every land you go on. This gets tiresome and repetitive, but it can 
 be fun (except for the huge shortage or ore supplies.) Controlling refers to your slight control 
 over the city, and your total control over your creature. Though his free will gets the better 
 of him often, train him right, and he may just become the mindless fighting machine you need to 
 conquer the enemy, or the happy-go-lucky self-minded city entertainer your villagers adore. Worth 
 the training time, especially when he becomes a skyscraper in his own right. Conquering, of course, 
 means war. You must build armouries (takes wood and ore) , then create an army from it (yet more 
 ore, on top of the ore shortages in this game,) Battle animations are repetitive, and the time 
 it consumes gets the better of you, yelling at your very team as it looks like they are losing, 
 but may get a close call. Not one of the better parts.
  
  Graphics in this game are excellent if you crank them up full blast. There are some glitches on 
 your conscience (the two small dudes, a devil and an angel (?) who are practically your tutorial 
 and fight warnings) , but they still look magnificent. Zoom in close, though, and the villagers 
 look appalling. Thankfully, you don't see the faces much,
  
  Sound involves many battle warning horns, much conscience babbling and swords clanging. Could be 
 better, and the music can get annoying, but the atmospheric sounds when you examine the island 
 from the sky are excellent, as ar e the small sound effects if you zoom in close to the city,
 
  
  Overall, I would say this game is kind of worth it, but you might need to get the expansion pack 
 to get the most out of your tribes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quills_GW
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game for everybody... ok let me be honest.
  this game is a well open game. you control a hand of GOd... as in you are god.. and there are two 
 little ( fairies ) guiding you to be a god.... well there is a devil .. teaching you how to be dominating 
 and stuff.. and always wants you to blast out the enemy. well the other fairy is a good one.. it 
 teaches you how to have peace with the people or enemies so that there is no fighting.
  well. if you are a gamer of domination... you will definitely want to fight ... and when you don't 
 treat your people well... your house, temples, stocks, barracks and stuff will start to farm demonic 
 structures which is really cool... but when you treat your people really well... guest what !... beautiful 
 plants will form by itself.. waterfalls will all be formed!!!!
  
  
  SO my advice to you people out there... get this game... its really cool.... enjoy yourself and have 
 a fun time playing this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 30, 2006 11:31 pm PT
Review:  When the original Black & White hit shelves, back in 2001, it was a very ambitious title. Combining 
 god-game, with pet-simulator, with city building. And it pulled it off with surprising fluidity. 
 The only problem, was that it was at times, quite vague, and it left you out in the open as to 
 what to do next. 
  
  This time around, all the kinks have been fixed. The interface is quick, and seamless; the creatures 
 actions and thoughts are clearly displayed; and in general, everything is layed out more clearly. 
 Another thing that was a downfall in the preceding game, was to be evil, was not nearly as beneficial 
 as being good was. You would have to wreck buildings, kill villiagers, and pretty much mess up 
 your civilization. Now, evil is defined as taking towns by force, as opposed to winning them over 
 with impressiveness. You don't have to light an entire villiage on fire, or crush villiagers with 
 rocks to gain belief. You merely have to send your warriors into battle. 
  
  The creature training system, is also completely revamped. It still follows the basic stroke or 
 slap method of teaching it right form wrong, but this time there is a meter above the creatures 
 head, displaying how often the creature will do action. For instance: if a creature is thinking 
 about eating a villiager, you can stroke him until it says something like, 'I will eat villiagers 
 all the time- they are yummy!' or you can slap him until it says something like, 'I will never 
 eat villiagers, it's barbaric!'. The way the creature learns miracles is also different. Now, you 
 must buy miracles for your creature, with the 'tribute' that you can gain from doing quests, or 
 completing objectives. Right from when you buy it, he will pull the miracle off with ease. For 
 instance, if there is an enemy platoon of soldiers just outside your town walls, he will throw 
 a fireball with deadly accuracy, and eliminate the threat. 
  
  The graphics in the game are simply stunning, if you have the right system. You can zoom out, and 
 see the entire island, the sun reflecting off the rippling water, or you can zoom all the way in 
 and see bugs on the ground, and blossoms of flowers amongst the lush, green grass. 
  
  The sound in the game is simply phenominal. Whether it's the houling wind way up in the clouds, 
 the screeching of dolphins and the crashing of waves at sea level, the chanting of worshipping 
 villiagers, or the roar of an angry lion. It all really gives the feeling of a real fantasy island. 
 
  
  I can't really think of anything Lionhead did wrong, because all the things that I didn't like 
 in the first game, were fixed. It's almost perfect, for the type of game that they were going for. 
 
  
  If you buy it, you won't be dissapointed. This game delivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  Black and White 2 is the sequal to Black and White: one of the best PC games ever made, where you 
 assume the role of a god! Like in the last one, you have your conscience... even though they look 
 a little different. Your conscience tempts you to do things in the game: Good, or Evil. 
  Again, like in the last one, you choose your own creature, this time at the very beginning of the 
 game. Your creature can do almost everything you do and more. You have four creature choices: A 
 Monkey, A Lion, A Wolf, and A... Cow. Each of these creatures has attributes and things that make 
 them who they are. They start out small, but soon they grow to be enormous. 
  The story starts off with your people being overrun by Aztecs. You do your best to save them, but 
 you only manage to save a few. As soon as you try to save more, a giant creature comes out of nowhere 
 and summons volcanoes that kill your remaining villagers. With nothing else to do, you flee with 
 the saved villagers to an island. 
  It is here you start your new village. Your objective is to take over every city on the island 
 you're on. There are to ways two do this: the first way is by impressing the other villages by 
 builing your city to be the metropolis of the island. By doing this, the cities will slowly become 
 impressed, and migrate to your town. 
  The second way is to conquer a village by force. You can build armies, then attack a village. The 
 village will attack with their army, and whosever army wins will keep or take that land. 
  Of the two choices, I prefer the first, because if you do the second, you will be attacked constantly 
 by rival village's armies, but by doing the first, you're mostly safe.
  After taking ovr the entire island, you move on to the next one. The objective is always the same: 
 Conquer every village, BUT there are many many, many, many, other objectives to earn you tribute.
 
  Tribute is like money in this game. With tribute you can buy new miracles, objects, and miracles 
 for your creature, and many more.
  As a god, you and your creature can cast miracles such as a water miracle, where you and your creature 
 can water trees, plants, fields, and even villagers. They take this as a miracle, and work harder.
 
  Villagers can also be assigned work. There's a disciple builder, farmer, forester, mineworker, 
 worshipper, breeder, refiner, and others... I think?
  Overall, the game makes a great sequal to a great game, and is a great PC game too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Gremlin_
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 8, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Black and White 2 does not seem like a sequel to Black and White, in that everything has been dumbed 
 down. I am aware that according to the planned story for Black and White you are suppose to become 
 gradually less influential, this does not make for fun gameplay. The AI is almost entirely non-existent, 
 and while a lot of games do follow scripted actions, Black and White 2 makes it painfully obvious.
 
  
  The enemy will always build in the same pattern, send the troops to the same location and build 
 the same sized army. None of these armys are ever as enormous as some screenshots would lead you 
 too believe, nor are the battles epic. Or even thrilling for that matter. Having an army is almost 
 optional once you get all your miracles, as you can simply cast a few lighting balls and most of 
 the army will be dead. If they can even manage to get past your walls, if they can't, your creature 
 will take care of them easily. I have more fun playing Starcraft (Or even Age of Mythology for 
 that matter) and Ron Millar was supposed to have helped out in this game.
  
  And, the enemy has infinite resources. So you will be insta-killing armies every 10 minutes or 
 so. The enemy will not improve their city once they get to their pre-scripted point of destination, 
 so they can never win by impressivness.. Actually, you will almost never lose, unless you let a 
 troop of 10 soldiers destroy your city out of boredom.
  
  City building is the way I went, (You'll probably still end up slaughtering armies, either way) 
 and while it may be fun in the beginning, while you have room to plan out your city and make odd 
 path designs, the moderate variety of buildings will soon wear thin, and you will have built everything 
 possible. And still not be impressive enough. Then it starts to get tedious, you have no room left 
 to plan, so you must build houses down a narrow valley, not to grow your population, but so you 
 can get that last bit of impressiveness. Which is now going down because each house now detracts 
 50 impressiveness because you built so many in order to try to take over that last city. And if 
 you plan on going with military strength, you'll still need to build a big city and take of your 
 people to get a big population for your army, since army size is all that matters, there is no 
 strategy. But then again, why would you want an army anyway?
  
  The creature will do exactly what you tell him to do. He doesnt learn, he does as he's told. He 
 will do nothing else. The only challenge presented to your creature is other creatures. And 5 minutes 
 of weightlifting will take care of this. The Epic Miracles arn't really epic, at all. Megablast 
 was more epic then the epic miracles, then again, why should there be? There are no epic enemies.
 
  
  Oh, it has good graphics and some nice music though. Which I'm sure is important. Somehow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: annilator
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 7, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  When B&W2 is fist played you must play through a lenghty tutorial with alought completly nessecary 
 for the unusual controls cannot be skipped if you start the game again and is just a waste of time 
 and an annoyance. The controls of the game are unusual for a game of this type but after an hour 
 you can't beat them. The game itself is very playable and interesting with lots of side quests and 
 unlocks to keep you busy, this breaks up the fact the objective is the exact same each level. the 
 creature aspect of the game is probaly the most interesting with the growth and development of 
 your creature key to how hard certain aspects of the game are make a fighter and killing armies 
 will be easy but your creature won't be as helpful and vice versa. overall the game is worth buying 
 but not for more than 20 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generalanubis
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 6, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  i will do this in 5 points,
  
  Graphics: the graphics in this game aren't the best at all, even if you had it on full graphics 
 display, some things are not shown and that is a big downfall, if you put it on its lowest setting, 
 the graphics are absolutely terible, the grass is poor the people are poor, the graphics are poor
 
  
  sound: sound was great and it really set the scene, if you were good, you could hear the joy of 
 the people, if you were evil you could hear them suffering. the battle music was good, the screams 
 and voices were diffent and great to hear. the backround music overall was great.
  
  Gameplay: well, the mix of battle and creation is amazing, though the battles could have been better, 
 but the creation was great, they are the main points, but there is a variety to do, except for 
 skirmish which was left out.
  
  Value: it's not worth it if you buy it for 50-60 dollars or euro, ( whatever)
  but get it if you 
 see it for 20-30 (whatever) then you might enjoy this game with a little extra spending cash in 
 your pocket.
  
  Reviewers tilt: overall the game is, not good, not bad, the bad things were that there was no skirmish 
 and no selection of teams, the good bits were the creature's design and the gameplay itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathSquad75
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 29, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Black and White 2 is a great addition to the Black and White series, which is supposed to play 
 out until the 5th. The game is appealing visually and audibly. The music paired with very nice 
 graphics gives the world a new sense of realism. Now you can even zoom into a place on the ground 
 and see the ants going about their business. Nonetheless, I felt that the game play was rather 
 gratifying yet somewhat brief. Many of the alternative creatures that you could find in the original 
 Black and White are no longer options, as you are given but 4 creatures to choose from at the beginning 
 and that is it. Also the number of miracles has been greatly reduced this time around. I have a 
 feeling that this was due to the amount of time development put into the new graphics engine. That 
 aside, this game is great and will have you wanting to continue to play to see how the story will 
 unravel. even after you beat each land you are still allowed to stay and develop your metropolis 
 as far as you wish. This allows the game to have a type of sandbox play without actually having 
 a mode for it. After the credits, there is a cut-scene which explains the entrance of another god. 
 More specifically, the one in B&W 2: Battle of the Gods. This game is worth your time and your 
 money, given your computer can run it, because it is no graphic lightweight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 29, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I felt in all that Black and White 2 was in no way a let down, even after the massive and massively 
 extended wait for its release. A lot of effort was contributed to this game into making it a true 
 sequal, rather than a spin off of the first game, which was critically acclaimed.
  
  Things i feel really make Black and White 2 special:
  
  i) Creature AI. I felt, the moment 
 i started playing Black and White 2, that the AI integrated into the creature character, was much 
 improved. Seeing the emotions, facial mask features, initiative and general intelligence in my 
 Lion creature for the first time amazed me. It was pretty incredible to believe that the creature 
 displayed on my screen wasn't actually there, thinking by itself.
  
  ii) Graphics. Massive, massive, MASSIVE effort here from Lionhead nice one. They have in-fact assure 
 that for years to come, the graphics on this game will continue to be seen as a good standard and 
 well made. The creature fir is absolutely spectacular, very realistic. The small villager models 
 are especially intricated and well finished looking. The landscapes are very full and lush, and 
 the grass effect is well on par with modern games from every genre. Just one issue here, but an 
 obvious and self explanitory one. To get the best looking visuals from this game, u will seriously 
 need a very good system, preferably with mid to top of the range Intel and ATI components, of which 
 the games was optimised for, which makes a change from bl**dy AMD and not so bl**dy Nvidia. 
  
  iii) Gameplay. Never could get bored of the good old Peter Molyneux god game genre, its awsome 
 ;)
  
  and iv) The musical score for this game is very good, and fits in well with the genre and style 
 of game, as well as the individual game itself.
  
  Black and White games are well under-way to becoming their own genre. Now, with Microsoft Game 
 Studios publishing, partnering and contributing with Lionhead, instead of horrendous EA, future 
 Black and White games are looking quite possible indeed :D! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alistervk
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 28, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  B&W 2 for me was a great game. After starting the game you notice that the intro with the Lionhead 
 Logo is always different. Small things in a game make it great. The gameplay is good and the graphics 
 are also crisp and very good. From far zoom, where your Island is so small to where you see the 
 bugs on the ground .Zoom in to peoples faces. Attention to detail. Building is also a breeze as 
 you just click and drag them to make more. At night time when you zoom away from your city and 
 you see all your disciples and there different colours moving around its was really great. It was 
 like you had created a living city. B&W 2 is great. Why? Because in this game it has all genres 
 played very well into one awesome game!!!!
  
  Strategy - Command squads and your Pet like C&C/ Build your city. 
  RPG - Your Squads get xP
 
  Tamaqoti/Sim Pet  Your pet becomes your own special animal the way you made him/her. Your pet 
 always does what you want and very well to.
  SimCity - Your city becomes like a real city with hundreds of people doing there own thing. (Just 
 looks great)
  God Game- You are God and now you have a chance to be the best.
  
  I finished the game and was quite sad. Now for the expansion!!
  
  Review 1. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_likes_you
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 18, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  What is the point?
  I had difficulties installing the game, EA transferred me from one department to another, then 
 another, then another expect me to give up and buy a new one instead of the one I bought. "Maybe 
 you should try it on another computer." Freaking Genius you are. If i have another computer would 
 I be stuck here and talk to you nerds?
  Never mind, I figured out the problem myself and no thanks to the staff.
  After several more 
 tries on starting the game, I gave up. I exchanged the game for another one. It still didn't work.
 
  I figured it out again. by myself.
  I played the game with complete rage inside my eyes. The graphics weren't as good as mentioned 
 in all magazines or such. I can live with that.
  I chose my creature, fed him food and nurtured him. The game crashes and I had to restart. No problem. 
 I expected that from these games.
  Slowly i made my way through AGAIN, knowing when to save. I did so and I was still disappointed 
 in the lack of polygons in each and everyone of the villagers. Yes, they have new clothes and mayhaps 
 a small stick that they put a sword's texture on. Wow, big deal. The villagers were merely the 
 same thing as Black and White 1. They have more actions and can be toss further. The game play 
 is slow, the other creatures and God even, can cast their miracle in my territory (outside theirs) , 
 killling my people and torturing my creature. I tried doing it myself, it didn't work. I finally 
 lost because of this (bug?) I don'; t know what happened but if you want your customers satisfied, 
 you better make a better game than this. Or are you just the pile of crap who doesn't give a crap 
 about anyone but to swim in your own over-paid paychecks? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jefvhees_basic
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  I was abslutely thrilled when B&W2 hit the shelves. I was even more exited when i put the disc 
 in my computer. Things really started cooking after some hours of play. But when i got to loand 
 4, i got so tired of always doing the same thing. I used some cheats to bring something new in 
 the game... But it just wasn't enough. I really think they could have made it a bit more interesting. 
 Nontheless i had a lot of fun with this game! ALLOT! And the graphix whre absolute eyecandy! 
 
  
  As fore the sound, nothing special. Some music here and there, some nice voices. It was just good.
 
  
  The gameplay is solid. Citybiuilding is verry fun and easy. The godhand works fine with me. Throwing 
 things still remains a hard thing to do.
  
  But... Been there, one that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kurtizz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 14, 2006 5:14 am PT
Review:  First of all I want to say this game is very well done in every aspect.
  The graphics, the gameplay, the sounds in the game, 
  and especially the level of addiction.
 
  
  The Gameplay:
  Very good in this game, because it's quite easy to control your godly hand.
  But it's not alway 
 that easy, for example: when you build two buildings close to each other you can't always pick up 
 or put down something. 
  This can be a bit annoying. After all the game is stable, 
  didn't see many bugs and all that.
  
  The Graphics:
  WOW, the graphics are beautiful.
  
 I think I never seen so much volume in the landscape, 
  in the hair of the creatures, in the hair of the people, ...
  The landscape is so well done.
 
  
  The Sound:
  It surprised me how the music changes in what kind of situation you are.
  For example: when you go in to battle, 
  Also the sounds like when you pull out a tree 
  or 
 the footsteps of your creature.
  
  Value: You might think this is always the same: 
  just win the land and your done. NO, it has objectives like: let your creature build x houses, 
 reach x population, and more. 
  Those things bring up tribute (cash for gods) . With that you can buy buildings, upgrades for your 
 creature, buy godly power :D,...
  It keeps the game interesting.
  
  Tilt:
  Very high, I finished the game in 4 days but I played about 2-4 h a day :p
  I don't really know 
 why but it has this addictive touch.
  
  My conclusion:
  The basics of this game is a classic RTS game. 
  But the game is a bit too short.
  I really 
 look forward to the expansion.
  
  -Kurtizz- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlareBlade1211
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 9, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  this game contains all the greatness of the first.... MULTIPLIED. There are so many new aspects 
 to this game that just makes it plain amazing. The movement and graphics are wonderful, and the 
 new setup is easy to get into.
  Although it is quite similar to the first game, there are so many new things that you can do in 
 order to make the experience even better. With a new assortment of buildings and functions, you 
 will be creating armies like crazy, or just trying to make the most impressive town in the world.
 
  The fact that you can take over cities by force or by attracting all of the villagers to your 
 city makes the game totally addictive. With you trying to steal all of the opposing member's people, 
 and using all of these brilliant miracles to help speed it along; you'll be stuck on this game 
 for a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nhart71
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 9, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  If you do, this is the game for you. With the ability to interact with the people, buildings, nature, 
 just about anything, you should have a very fun time. Personally I like to use "magic" to kill 
 my enemy. Your a hand and can do anything in your towns influence with that hand. You can build 
 something called an altar. Which is the place your spells are placed once you buy them with tribute. 
 Tribute it the games currency, you can earn it from helping villigers and completing quests. You 
 can buy anything you would like, you just have to have the right amount of tribute. Now the game 
 is called Black & White 2, black meaning evil and white meaning good. This game acts like you conscience. 
 There is a little fat devil on the left side of the screen and an old angel on your left. They 
 both give you advice on how to be good or evil. Now, this game is really cool. You have a town 
 capital which shows you what your villagers want and your alignment. If you are really evil there 
 will be a scorching flame, or if your good there will be a fountain of water pouring around. This 
 game lets you have a "god like" pet, you can choose 1 of 4 creatures to be your pet. An orangutan, 
 wolf, a cow, and a lion. These creatures start out as babys and grow stronger and more powerful. 
 You can train him to be a gatherer to help out around the town, a soldier to kill off your enemy, 
 a builder to, well, build, and I can't think of the other one. This game is a truly revolutionary 
 game and the greatest of its time. I recommend this game to anyone, whoever likes to be very powerful 
 like a dictator or a "god" and, there is not much gore. Overall I really enjoy playing this game 
 and still play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  This game is a must have if you've never played Black and White.
  
  However, for people who already own Black and White you may view this game with disappointment. 
 
  
  For me this game felt like the same game "digitally re-mastered". The core of this previous one 
 was there with all the bugs and annoyances fixed, but apart from that nothing much new was added.
 
  
  City building is much improved and the citizens ai make them a lot more self-sufficient which gets 
 rid of a lot of the micro-management from the previous one. However, this game relies so much on 
 city building that you tend to feel more of a city mayor than a god. There are a wide variety of 
 buildings but many of them add little function to the city it seems, and ultimately you end up 
 building for the impressiveness score and influence ring rather than building a beuatiful city.
 
  
  The creature is much easier to control and educate but this means you spend less time with it, 
 and ultimately becomes a bit part player. However, for combat the creature is a valuable asset 
 and can render your armies obselete, just for it's sheer efficency of inflicting death.
  
  Visually the game is very impressive, a powerful pc is required to run it effectively though. The 
 controls are also mastered to a high level, and laying down your city feels like your painting 
 a picture with the versatility it gives you. Even games like Sim City 4 will look at this game 
 with envy for the options this gives you, especially with laying roads which can be shaped just 
 by the drag of a mouse.
  
  Gameplay. I found this game to offer a tactical advantage playing good, and by making your citizens 
 happy and your city pretty allows you to walk over any of the enemies this game throws at you. 
 I pretty much completed this game within a week of on and off play. The armies you create are weak 
 and require high maintainace, did not offer anything tangable for offensive play. In essence armies 
 were only good for defence and although you could make huge armies they were more a liability than 
 a help. The lack of freeform play was also a big loss, once the game was completed it offeres little 
 replayabilty.
  
  Sound. The ambient sound is superb in creating a worldly environment.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Improves on the original in some aspects giving slicker gameplay, but does 
 not offer much different from the original to satisfy the established fan base. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: willdemers
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  This sequel to Black & White is very much the same game, but with the addition of military units 
 and a realy focus on building up armies and warring against enemy factions.
  
  I did not get a chance to play this game through to the end, but I did get a taste for the basic 
 feel of the game, and it is as fun as the previous game but with improved graphics and some new 
 additions.
  
  There was nothing about this game that really spoke to me as being new or inventive though. As 
 I stated, there were some graphic updates and perhaps further effort put into the campaign (although 
 I found the tutorials slow and frustrating at times) , but this was a lot of the same.
  
  This game is fun and if you haven't played Black & White, you should pick this up. I don't know 
 that I'd recommend it over the original though. I might because of graphics or the fact that it's 
 current... but this game isn't incredible.
  
  That said, this game isn't bad. I like it. It's just... I'd say middle range. It could have been 
 better, but perhaps for me my problem was that I'd already played Black & White and this was just... 
 the same. I could've picked up Black & White again for old times sake and probably enjoyed the 
 replay value as much as playing this new version.
  
  But that aside, I was amazed with the layout and the effort put into this game. It's definitely 
 a great game. Better than the original in many ways, but also missing something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenhy2004
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  this game is really good but unfortunately you would need a good graphics card to enjoy the highest 
 graphic quality. they have taken out the skirmish mode and i think that ruins the game. good storyline 
 and plenty of missions.
  looking after the pet is fun because you can lift weights, feed him etc. his progress goes down 
 if you don't do anything to him. if you have played number one, you should try out this one because 
 there are many major graphic improvements. you have the role of god and you get to control what 
 happens in your little city using your hand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benhenthorn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Black and White 2 is a visually stunning and well thought out game, but not without faults. Some 
 of the problems youll notice throughout the game are creature role malfunctions, having your creature 
 be a builder wont necessarily mean you he will just build without any command from you. Hell 
 slowly gather wood and place it on the building ready to build it then, out of nowhere it seems, 
 he has the sudden urge to play with that villager or poo on that ore rock. The only thing I 
 found my creatures to be good at was fighting, but even then he misses 90% of the troops when he 
 goes stomping. And hell most definitely die if he goes against archers, being confused on what 
 to do to them and waiting to fight back until hes almost dead.
  
  The game also gives you a lot more content, allowing you to earn tribute by completing silver scrolls 
 and little objectives. By collecting tribute you can buy things to make your town more impressive 
 or upgrade your creature to make him more useful. The new lands you travel to always look very 
 impressive and youll be impressed by the level of detail in every aspect of the game. Water looks 
 real, the mountains have a very good sense of scale, flowers grow as your hand floats over the 
 grass (only if youre good) , and the creature looks very realistic, especially the fur. You'll 
 easily lose track of time while playing this game, it's kind of addictive.
  
  All around this is a good game although you might be put off by some of the more frustrating faults. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pergatori
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Its pretty much the same game as B&W 1 with better graphics. There are things that need to be added 
 such as more ways to by-pass tutorials. There are some now you can by-pass but not all.
  
  I did like the added wolf but in my opinion there really needs to be a better selection of pets 
 available.
  
  Good game, but re-hashed from the B&W1. If you are looking for something to just pass the time 
 this game will work for you. If you are looking for something new don't count on it. I would advise 
 spend your money on something else unless you are just totally hooked on B & W to begin with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evan_thomas
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Oh, How i remember my excitement, my utter joy when i heard that they where making a sequel to 
 my all time favourite game Black And White.
  I waited for months, spending countless hours infront of the computer trying to find out all i 
 could about Black and White 2, watching game trailer after game trailer until my eyes started to 
 hurt. I heard the creator's vision for this game and i was speechless. What he was describing sounded 
 like it would obliterate all competition. This was going to be the best game ever.
  
  Then the big day came. The day i had been waiting for for months. It was released. I quickly grabbed 
 every bit of money i could muster, and ran down to EB games. It was finally mine, and I held it 
 in my hands. I can't describe the pure excitement i felt as i popped it in my cd and waited for 
 it to install. When it finally finished, i started it up, and was immediately a little dissapointed. 
 I had to go through a long, tedious tutorial that took forever before i could start the actual 
 game. "oh well" i thoughtatleast these graphics are phenominal." and I won't lie, until the 
 game started, i though it was pretty damn good. UNTIL the game started. First i had to make a town, 
 which took forever. Then I had to make an army which took, you guessed it, Forever. Then I was 
 going to fire up some miracles, but they even managed to make those lame somehow. I played it for 
 about an hour, realised it was a complete waste of money, and , expectations crushed, returned 
 it to its box to collect dust.
  
  However, there were some positive aspects. The AI was as incredible as ever, and if your an rts 
 fan, you'll love it. However, if you enjoyed the first game for it's open ended sense of freedom, 
 prepare to be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Virck
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 25, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  I love playing Tomagachi with my creature, I love how I can keep the time of day always at the 
 middle of night for battles.
  
  Good: Control over enviroment, miracles, mayhem, destruction, reminds me of sims gone Age of Empires, 
 with Age of Mythologies, comboed with nice big fluffy toys :) (creatures) .
  
  Bad: The camera gets irritating, I'm trying to move, and I move too quickly (double click within 
 the time limit to zoom in) then I zoom in, ok wheel out, wheel back in, pivot the camera, adjust 
 the camera angle..... repeat process after you're done working in the area.
  
  Fun: You can just be a peaceful civilization, or you can have lots and lots of farmers, lots and 
 lots of breeders, and just chug out military to take over opponents. Building your creature is 
 really fun, but I hate how they don't upgrade much, I got mine to be a brute for wrecking ball, 
 taking out 80 soldiers and a whole entire town. But he just didn't "look" like what he was doing.
 
  
  Eat more people!!!! Creature is fun :) I say short lived game, but really nice, hated the tutorial 
 but it filled in everything.
  
  Ran fine on my 800 dollar machine. AMD Athlon XP 3700+ Geforce 5500 FX 1GB of RAM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeakboy
Rating: 3.7
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I found this game very disappointing, I was expecting pretty much the same thing as the old game 
 (which i liked) but it seems like they took all the good parts away. 
  
  The graphics are the best part of the game, the graphics look very nice and colourful, you can 
 zoom out to see the whole island or zoom in really close and see the strands of wheat in the fields.
 
  
  The gameplay is a HUGE let down, there is no multiplayer, no customising maps and very little replay 
 value. When you do finish the game, it just takes you to the starting level, and yes... the tutorials 
 still remain, why? becos they didnt think any1 would finish this shoddy game.
  
  There isnt the same freedom there was in the first game and half the game is a tutorial. Most of 
 the gameplay is just city building which gets very boring as you find out a successful layout and 
 just keep making the same city on the different lands. You no longer capture villages by impressing 
 them with miracles but by either creating an impressive city so they migrate to you or by creating 
 an army to capture their towns. It just comes down to how you create your city, if you create nice 
 big houses with a few temples people will migrate to your city, if you make little ugly houses 
 you can have a large population to make an army. This just takes all the good and evil out of the 
 game, apparently creating an army and making people live in shabby houses (that you created for 
 them) is evil. Uprooting trees is also evil....
  
  The armies sound like fun but the battles look terrible, it looks like a load of headless chickens 
 running about randomly and theres not any point using them because a creature can destroy them 
 with ease.
  
  The creature was one of my favourite parts of the old game, i liked seeing how mine gradually became 
 the perfect pet. The training has been made much easier... too easy, you just slap or stroke your 
 creature to set how often you want your creature to do something, it then remembers it forever. 
 It makes it seem like a robot rather than a pet. It's nice when you see your pet demolishing a 
 platoon of soldiers for the first time but it can get stuck often, maybe under a rock or just stand 
 there while getting hit by soldiers.
  
  There isnt any sense of power, which is surprising considering you are supposed to be a GOD!!! 
 You are forced to listen to an annoying balding man and a fat man with horns. You can't even kill 
 your own villagers with miracles (they are apparently immune to fire) a lot of miracles aren't 
 useful as you can only use them very close to your city. You can only attack other villages with 
 armies. 
  
  I was hoping this would be a truly great game, and it was hyped up to be one, but sadly that wasnt 
 the case... they lied.
  
  The only way to even have some fun in this mind numbing and stressfully irritating game is to link 
 towers together to get a large influence and just nuke the enemy with fireballs, and no it isnt 
 epic, its just press the hotkey for last spell used and click on them... WOOHOO! This is also the 
 only other way to win apart from the City Builder 200 method.
  
  Anyway i think i've done enough complaining, have a nice day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 23, 2006 2:17 am PT
Review:  The game lets the player take control of a creature avatar which you can train to be a good or 
 bad guy, and assimilate your enemies either thru conquering them (bad) or thru building lots of 
 nice building in your cities n having the ppl from neighbouring cities migrate over (good) .
  
  The good: Incredible graphics even on medium settings. The fact that u can zoom in close to 
 see the individual blade of grass and then zoom out to take in a view of the entire world is pretty 
 cool. Your creature will also change in appearance depending on whether u do good or evil. The 
 epics spells like 'Volcano' or 'Earthquake' are pretty spectacular n will permanently change the 
 landscape when u cast them. Also, the interface has got to be one of the most user friendly 1've 
 seen, u can play the whole game without touching the keyboard, as everthing can be done using the 
 mouse. The city building, to me is kinda fun, kinda like a Roman/Greek version of Simcity. The 
 creature fights are freaking awesome, I mean, ever imagine King Kong fighting a giant Wolfman? 
 
  
  The bad: The attacking options are severly limited, just build an army, rush the bad guys n pray 
 u have enough men to win, creature training seems dumbed down from previous B&W games. Basically, 
 the game just seems to be waiting for your peons to collect all the raw materials before u assign 
 them to build up your city. The first few cities are fun, after that it gets kinda tedious.
  
  Verdict: U know, I still can't figure out whether to like or hate this game. I like the slow 
 city building part where I can just sit back n enjoy the view of my city, play with my peeps n 
 creature, but strip away this from the game and what u have left isi'nt much to shout about. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russian8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  to my own question i say yes because this game does the same thing as the last ones and improves 
 on the artistic and other quality dependents.
  
  the graphics are good and at first you can see a major difference which is better then from the 
 original by quite a bit. however when you look closer at the people you see lots of detail in the 
 soliders and regular folk.
  
  the gameplay is the same with lots of options so no big difference there.
  
  so in general 
 the game exceeds all expectations but it still isn't the best i have seen and i hope for another 
 to improve and make this a series of games to be feared and reconed by all other strategy installments. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Algolagnia
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  My system is capable of running this game, above the required capability actually though it still 
 locks up occasionally and the sound rarely works for longer than ten to twenty minutes.
  
  I ran all of the basic system tools, and then anti-virus and adware/spyware programs I have as 
 well before the initial install. I had only necesarry background programs running, and the game 
 diagnostic gave me a green light.
  
  Though once I entered the game it would always lock up in the tutorial while trying to click on 
 a silver scroll and I would lose sound ten to twenty minutes into play, so I skipped the tutorial. 
 It seemed to work to bypass that particular scroll which is obviously glitched, I started playing 
 despite these problems and the clunky controls.
  
  I noticed immediately that the responsiveness of the god hand was poor, you have to be very precise 
 in positioning of the hand to grasp any small object such as a stone or person. On top of this 
 it is almost impossible to punish your creature by rapid side to side movement as many times it 
 just ends up being interpreted by the game as reward.
  
  I continued to try and play however, but more and more the clunky controls weighed in as well as 
 the lock-up and sound issues. The game started locking up occasionally whenever an army was trained 
 as well.
  
  Once I got deeper into the building aspect I noticed that it is impossible to remove meadows, or 
 fields once placed by use of the destruction hammer ... this severely crippled my ability to expand 
 my influence area during the fourth map as I mistakenly put meadows and fields around the edge 
 of my current area.
  
  This seemed idiotic to me and drove the final nail in this games coffin into the lid, I quit playing 
 as it was not worth the effort required to complete the game with this many problems.
  
  Poor control scheme, execution issues even on supported hardware, indestructible fields and meadows, 
 and poor population control all added to my dislike of this game.
  
  I wouldn't recommend this game to anyone, even those that have systems which seem to be capable 
 of running the program as even that does not guarantee a good experience.
  
  The game simply has too many control issues, and compatibility issues even with "supported" hardware. 
 
  
  ( In the following I am giving difficulty a Hard marking due to the quirky controls, the combat 
 I found very simple and did not lose a single platoon the entire time I played. While you can get 
 used to the quirky controls you can by no means "master" them due in large part to the hand itself 
 which has poor interactivity if not positioned just right. ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  If you have a computer that has good ability to run graphics, this game offers an excellent visual 
 treat. The game itself is a little clunky in the control and there are still a few lingering issues 
 with the game world interface, like your creature getting stuck in places and not able to get out 
 for a while. Once you put aside the few little annoying things, the game itself is very good and 
 very entertaining. Giving the game an easy feel and simple means to control everything is what 
 makes it particularly nice, there is almost no chance of finding this game too hard.
  
  Though there is no real sandbox mode to the game, the missions offer a lot of time spent in advancing 
 so the game will not be too short if you are an intricate person who enjoys doing tasks. Some of 
 the tasks in the game are downright silly and unimaginative, but there are even more that are really 
 fun to do. This is one of the few games that I actually played twice, once good and once evil, 
 and normally I do not spend that much time on a single game because I have others to get to... 
 this one just offered up enough to make it worthy of a second play.
  
  Black & White 2 can be a little childish and silly at times, and that is something you will want 
 to expect going in. If you want a really serious game, this isn't it, it is mildly amusing and 
 very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawmanrevolutio
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 18, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  I have bought the original Black & White after seeing this & i loved the original Black & white 
 like a brother, 7 months later i decided to get B&W2 Collectors edition & here is my Views.
  
  Baisicly in this a game where u play a God & have to manage your Village & go to war with other 
 Gods.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Truely Beutiful Grapthics when on full settings. on minimal Settings the still look a Damn site 
 better than the originals.
  
  Sound 9/10
  The sound on B&W2 is really good as well the Voice acting is done superbly & the background Music 
 aint bad either.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  The classic Gameplay fomulae is still in tact looking after your Village & training your creature. 
 But this time Lionhead decided to change the Gameplay a bit. Now u get an army & get to go to War 
 with other gods, this is good fun but it sort of makes B&W2 a bit complicated
  
  All in all this is a good game but it does not live up to the original
  Value 9/10
  This is 
 a long game & when your done u can go online & wage war with other Gods.
  
  But this game isent for everyone i say Rent it or get the original for cheap to see if u like this.
 
  Personly i find the original better but just buy a bit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chronus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Black & White 2 is the eagerly anticipated sequel to the revolutionary strategy game Black & White. 
 While Lionheads sequel retains elements of the gameplay that made its first game so daring, it 
 also has new features that help create a more mainstream feel. 
  
  In essence, Black & White 2 is the story of youa godand your quest to avenge the destruction 
 of your city and its people. Your people are the Greeks, and they must rebuild their shattered 
 culture following a brutal attack from the evil Aztec Empire. However, exacting revenge as the 
 games central deity isnt as easy as it sounds, and as a god you have many, many choices to make. 
 Do you want to accomplish goals through acts of malevolent evil, or would you rather progress through 
 acts of benevolent kindness? 
  
  This core question runs through the whole of Black & White 2, and the players choices will ultimately 
 determine how the game unfolds. If the player, in a fit of godly rage, decides to pick up a townsperson 
 and drop them from a great height, then a point is accrued on the evil scale. Conversely, if 
 the player creates new homes to better serve the reemerging population, then a point is added to 
 the good scale. This alignment system helps determine the actions of the player throughout the 
 game. A player who chooses to adopt the way of evil will conquer by military force while the good 
 player will see impressed cities opt to freely join his swelling empire. This system allows for 
 different styles of gameplay, and, as a result, the player can openly swing between one extreme 
 and the other.
  
  Black & White 2s central narrative progresses through a series of missions that pit the player 
 against other rival empires. These opponents are allies of the Aztecs and the player must overcome 
 them before finally confronting the Aztec Empire. Each mission involves the player building up 
 his/her emergent civilization by either conquering the rival empire through direct military force 
 or through subtle influence. 
  
  Black & White 2 is multiple types of strategy game all rolled into one. Each mission sees the player 
 create a townas gods dofor their people to live, breed, and work in. The player can then add 
 houses, roads, and other structures to make the people happy. This civilization system works directly 
 off the desires and needs of its people. If the populace requires more food for survival and growth, 
 then the player needs to gift them with more farms, etc. The player can create disciples within 
 the townspeople who will concentrate only on the chore they are assigned. Some of these disciples 
 are mine workers, breeders, and farmers. The creation of disciples lets the player focus on other 
 things while the people perform repetitive tasks that must be accomplished.
  
  The town operates by consuming three main resources: food, ore, and wood. The player can further 
 assist the population by watering crops or gathering wood by ripping trees from the earthbut the 
 best town functions mainly from the labor of its people. The town is the players source of reverent 
 finance and mana. Money, for want of a better term, allows the player to obtain various divine 
 powers or town upgrades such as newer, better buildings. Mana allows the player to perform spells 
 or miracles such as water, fire, or lightning. The currency in Black & White 2 is known as tribute 
 and it is gained through creating new buildings or reaching certain town milestones like a particular 
 population level, or other towns conquered through favorable impression. Mana is gained via the 
 townsfolk worshipping at their temple. 
  
  The town is, by itself, one strategic element within Black & White 2, and another is the accomplishment 
 of sub-missions strewn throughout the world map. The main mission goal of each level is to conquer 
 an opposing empire; however, the player also has other missions they can choose to complete for 
 tribute and mana. For example, one level has a mission that requires the tossing of rocks at a 
 waterfall to break a blockage in the waters flow, while another involves leading a lost man through 
 the woods by changing the direction its signposts are facing. These sub-missions help alleviate 
 the focused grind of the level and also offer an alternative challenge to accomplish.
  
  And then we come to the games strategic warfare element. Many players may choose against focusing 
 much on this particular aspect of Black & White 2 since it leads down a definite path of evil. 
 But if a player remains steadfastly dedicated to the evil cause, a whole new layered atmosphere 
 of siege engines and armed soldiers will appear. This warfare system controls much like a basic 
 real-time strategy game. The player must create armories where troops can be trained into efficient 
 fighting groups and then led against opposing enemy forces. Also, if the player gathers sufficient 
 tribute throughout the game, new warfare upgrades can be obtained, such as the siege factory and 
 armories that make different types of troops. One disappointing aspect of the warfare system in 
 Black & White 2 is the lack of individual control. Since your armies come in groups, it is hard 
 to get the feel of personal control. The troops arent controlled on an individual basis like in 
 a standard RTS game. This makes it impossible for the player to micro-manage the battles or engage 
 in any real complex strategies. This lack of personalization makes the military element of the 
 game feel a little weak.
  
  However, the lack of personalization is combated admirably by something the Black & White series 
 is famous for: the creature. At the start of the game, the player chooses from a selection of animals, 
 and that animal then becomes the players creatureremaining with them for the remainder of the 
 game. The creature aspect of Black & White 2 could be considered a separate strategic element as 
 well. The player must teach their creature the definitions of right and wrong, and everything the 
 creature does during the game is influenced by the player. For example, if the creature grabs a 
 townsperson and eats them, the player can then decide whether to issue punishment or praise for 
 their actions, thus allowing the player to choose the creatures alignment. A good creature will 
 receive a parental smack or two for pooping on the local church, whereas an evil creature may get 
 candy and a stripper by way of rewardnot really, but you understand the meaning.
  
  A creature can also be put into different modes of action, such as builder, gatherer, or soldier, 
 which means it can participate in menial tasks around town, or even out on the battlefield. When 
 in these modes, the creature will only perform tasks that fit the modes specific category. But 
 beware, if a creature remains in the same mode for too long it loses its free will and simply becomes 
 a mindless follower; though this may be somewhat beneficial to the more nefarious player if they 
 desire a mindless killing machine.
  
  Graphically, Black & White 2 is off the charts. The game is shown from an overhead isometric view 
 and everything can be zoomed in on. Even when the game camera is at its closest, details remain 
 both sharp and clear. However, the game does eat up a huge amount of system resources and will 
 only run best on top-of-the-line PC hardware. The sound in this game is great as well. The music 
 and voice acting come through well and the sound effects are dead on.
  
  Control leaves a little to be desired; though it must have been difficult to design controls to 
 complement the variety of things that need to be done in the game. At times it is hard to accomplish 
 actions smoothly and sometimes the game doesnt respond. For example, to negate a command the player 
 must clear their hand of whatever is selected. Say you have one of your armies selected but you 
 wish to click on a tree without instructing the army to move there. Jiggling the mouse back and 
 forth is supposed to clear your hand of the selected army so you can go click on the aforementioned 
 tree. However, this doesnt work some of the time, and it can be very frustrating to have to shake 
 the mouse back and forth, back and forth, until the selection clears. Maybe it just takes practice 
 and a gentle divine hand?
  
  Overall, Black & White 2 is definitely a fun gamebut does it justify the hype? No, but it is still 
 thoroughly entertaining to play. Some parts of the game can drag a little, and the warfare system 
 doesnt feel fully fleshed out, but creating towns and playing god is as fun as ever. The games 
 design is a refreshing drop in the sea of real-time strategy games, and Black & White 2 ably shows 
 that god sims still have a place of reverence in our humble computer game libraries. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryle_Boy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 11, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  I bought this game before Christmas, and I can tell you its one hell of a good game. Very different 
 compared to the original, however. The introduction of a more RTS feel to the game is somewhat... unwelcomed 
 in some cases, and would of much prefered to be left out. But, however, the scrapping of the scaffolding 
 system is a relief. The open-ended nature has been somewhat destroyed, sadly. The ability to train 
 your creature to your desired personality is awesome, with an easy to use tool which allows you 
 to encourage or discourage your creature to do. The game is somewhat disappointing, but doesn't 
 fail in delivering a great experience.
  
  So let's get this started!
  
  Overview
  Black and White 2 is a step up from BnW. This sequel is basically a simulation (creature aspect) 
 with elements of an RTS. 
  
  Gameplay
  The concept of the game is that you are a god, called from the depths of space and time to help 
 those who invoked you. However, you are not an omnipotent monotheistic style god, but rather a 
 god who rises and falls with his believers and you must help develop their nature according to 
 your good or evil desires. You also have a creature, your physical representation in the world, 
 who can take an antropomorphic shape of a cow, lion, ape, wolf, or get a tiger if you pre-ordered 
 the game. It can be 11 meters tall and can also become evil or good. Creatures help you in most 
 of your decisions and represent your god. The only way you can interact with this world directly 
 is through your hand, with which you can pick up people, trees, food, and influence the ground. 
 You can also cast miracles. However, a certain amount of Prayer Power from your believers is needed 
 to do this. One of the game's most valuable features is its user interface, almost buttonless. 
 Mostly, all that you see on the screen is the world in the game and your hand. To do things such 
 as cast spells, you move your hand in such a way to make a symbol on the ground, which is called 
 a gesture. This activates the spell, and if you have enough prayer power, you have it in your hand 
 ready to cast. Spells will have a variety of different uses. There are 6 ordinary spells: fire, 
 lightning, water, shield, heal, and meteor (each of which can be thrown or poured) , and 4 epic 
 miracles, which are hurricane, siren, earthquake, and volcano. The four epic miracles are less 
 limited that the lesser miracles, and you can cast them outside of your Influence (the territory 
 that you cannot otherwise interact with) . Your creature can do most things you can do, such as 
 cast miracles. He will grow slowly for a long time, but can become very large. Since you train 
 him, his personality can become whatever you make of it. He may be an aide in supporting your kingdom 
 or the ultimate soldier in your army. There are three possible paths to take in this game: Good, 
 Evil, or a more neutral combination of the two; although this decision is not discrete. The typical 
 path of an evil god will be one of fear, torture, conquest and destruction using epic armies and 
 building fearsome places, such as a pit of torture, while that of a good god will be one of benevolence, 
 more positive city building, and lots of looking after the populace, particularly defending it 
 from attack. 
  Verdict - 9
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are nothing but spectacular. Everything is rendered to its fullest extent. The creature 
 looks awe-inspiring, the fur looks realistic, and the features such as the claws and the teeth 
 look awesome. The way they look differently over time and not just transform as-if overnight, is 
 a superb aspect as well, adding depth to the game. The armies look great in battle and when just 
 resting. They move so realistically, and them being thrown into the air and stamped on by the creature 
 really does add to the great experience. The buildings look awesome as well, and are really good 
 to look at, and when zoomed in at its fullest, still has great detail, like in the tavern, you 
 can see people working behind the bar, and you can pick up the people drinking there. The fully-destructable 
 environments are fun, like being able to set alight a forest, smashing rocks etc. The physics are 
 revolutionary. In most games, any unit can attack anything. This isn't the case with BnW2. Sending 
 a mass of archers to destroy a wall isnt possible, and with enemies clanging it with their swords 
 won't do a thing. You need a siege weapon, which adds realism. The walls dont just collapse, either. 
 They crack, and parts of the wall can fall apart, which you can send your units through. The wall 
 parts are also destructable, you can pick them up and toss them across the battlefield. Physics 
 make a big part of this game, and they are nothing short of perfect. Everything is eye-candy, and 
 should be on High to get the fullest of this beauty of a game.
  Verdict - 10
  
  Sound
  The sound... somewhat of a let-down compared to the other attributes. There is music in the background, 
 but it gets frustrating and aggrivating. The poorly-done voicing to enemy factions gets so annoying 
 that you just have to turn off your speakers and switch on your iPod. The sound is the core let-down 
 attribute, never before to my knowledge has sound been this bad. If you want a game for sound, 
 you wouldn't want BnW2.
  Verdict - 4
  
  Overall, this game is a superb game, but with a fair few differences and let downs. Although you 
 disliked the original, who knows, this sequel could be for you. One of the few let-downs was the 
 lack of a sandbox, which could be unlocked by completing the story, which was drastically short. 
 Although the story was great, it wasn't long enough.
  
  Overall Verdict - 9.0 - Superb
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowASH
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I want to say one thing first... This game seemed amazing to me... Even I haven't played the first 
 part of it.
  I'm writing this review a tad too late... I know, I know! But because this game is "interesting"!
 
  Okay now this strategy type gives you the power to rule over all !
  But not totaly :-\... Your green sercule is the barrier of your rule and there you have to take 
 care of everything... The needs of your people and the needs of yourself to win the islands ! I 
 don't know who has the paition to play this game but I honor that man.
  So about the basic "good and the evil sides"
  1. The grafics are great ,it is given big detail 
 on everything!
  2. There are basecully 2 times of wining ,economy or war !
  Why ?Because playing the economy is like a waste of time 2-4hours if not more, I don't know exactly 
 because I haven't player more then ~3 maps !
  And if you chouse war then your people are not happy and if you lose you lose !
  Frankly you 
 have to be very strict in which side you chouse "good or evel, economy or war" ,because being close 
 to "Jack of Trades" is immpossible, so you have to peak one side for the game !
  3. The tutorials succed because of the "NO GOD POWERS TO STOP IT EVERY TIME YOU START THE GAME", I 
 felt like the game was treating me like a kid and the "Step - Push" system goth on my nerv. 
  4. 4 animals to chouse..."Which to chouse ?Maybe to see the evil cow or a monkey gone bad or a 
 goody-wolfy or the King of Wild be all that he can be?" Really the time I would have to play and 
 "Lvl up" my pet would be the whole game ! And one full game would take me about 40-50 hours... Come 
 on ! This is just not fare.... I wonna try all of them being evil or good !
  5. I just remembered the animation is GREAT !I really smilled to some emotions that my pet gave 
 me :-D 
  6. The additional questas are good because they give points but take time and accuracy (not always)
 
  7."Ruling over babies" - the main type of playing !
  8. Strange slowness that you can't wasten up ! :\
  9. I like goth angry of what my opponent said 
 when i built one type or another type of the structures, so if I built a barracks to defend my people 
 that means war ? This is just selfdefence ! RRrrrr...
  10. "The reallity of WAR itself" - Let's agree ,men fight so men die ,men die ,there is no sex 
 that meens no pragnancy! That's means 50 more years to recreate the popularity of men !
  Well in the game that takes like 1 hour... One hour of ordering to make love !
  Come one.... This 
 is a waste of time... But this is REALITY !
  Anyways these are the 10 things I didn't like in the game ,well there are some that I like and 
 even more aspects are left alone but that's because there good and you can see them for your self....
 
  I recomend to buy this game for people who really love to spend a lot of time infront of a strategy 
 !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilplayer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2006 11:16 pm PT
Review:  when i started this game, i thought, no way will it live up to black and white 1, even though the 
 makers had spen so long on updating it, turns out i was wrong. this game griupped me from the start 
 and hasn't let go, fantastic game which is a must play for any fans of warcraft or age of mythology.
 
  the story is good, after black and white 1 i was wondering what they were going to do, because 
 there were no more gods left, but they have managed to think up of a thrilling story. the gameplay 
 is great. and the graphics are fantastic, the reason for this is because they spent so long upgrading 
 it. if u want to live, play this game. simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1valiantknight
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of the original black and white I very much looked forward to black and white 2. As a 
 fan of the original black and white I also hoped for a less buggy endeavor. Didn't happen.
  
  Black and white 2 can be a fun game. If you don't mind taking the time to download patches, 
 go through forums, and tweak your settings a couple hundred times to get it to run right. Being 
 the second rendition of the game this should be a more stable experiance. Playing the game on a 
 high end system my experiance was just fine for the first 3 lands. On the 3rd land I suddenly started 
 getting flickering textures. I went to help boards to find thousands upon thousands of issues. 
 After that things went from bad to worse. I tunred settings on and off and many a new bug appeared. 
 At some point you have to ask yourself, is it worth it?
  
  So, bugs aside, the game is pretty fun. If you don't mind submitting yourself to what the game 
 designers see as good and evil. 
  
  Apparently if another god sends his warriors over to your land to kill your people and begin a 
 hostile take over it's evil to attempt to defend yourself. The game says your evil if you rip a 
 tree out of the ground, even if it's in order to help build a home for your people to live in.
 
  
  Theres just a lot of factors that never really work as well as you might hope. Your people will 
 constantly complain about being tired even if you make it night time for an hour in real life. 
 Your pet will only kind of fallow orders. Apparently allowing your pet to have free will means 
 having a pet that will never really listen to you.
  
  The pet on the other hand is an awesome creature that really does seem to be, alive. After a couple 
 hours you'll really get to see it's personality form. The idea is your pet will do things on his 
 own accord at first. Then it's up to you to pet him or hit him in order to let him know if he should 
 do it again or not. This works in theory, but countless times I have hovered over my pet waiting 
 for him to do something so that I can scold him, only when I initiate the moment of interaction 
 with my pet he's started thinking about something else so I can't disipline him about the villager 
 he just poo'd on.
  
  The graphics are great as far as the terrain goes, but the villagers are another thing all together. 
 The trees, buildings, grass, water, and spell effects are amazing. The villagers, while full of 
 personality and surely better than the first games, are still left lacking. It's really no big 
 deal though sense normally you wont be looking too closely at them. What they lack in graphics 
 they make up for in personality.
  
  In the end this is an innovative game marred by bugs just like the first one.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clarky3
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  this game is so good the graphics are superb and the sound quality is brilliant this game is so 
 fun and will blow your mind it is also a game for any 1 if u like war games its for you if u like 
 building games its for you if you like god games its for you if you like looking after animals 
 it for you and every other sort of gamer will love it.
  
  The controls are easy to get used to and when you have learnt the basics you will not stop, as 
 i said earlier the graphics are superb they are you can see each individual hair on your creature 
 and each and every blade of grass and just watching your creature doing what it does is fun you 
 also have the choose of being evil or good evil is a lot easier but good is better and leaves you 
 with a warm funny feeling inside if you like PC games this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darksamurai900
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  This game is great if you have ever wanted to know what a god has two do. Listen to people who 
 need help with their everyday lives. But leaving the bad going to the good. This game is so awesome. 
 You get to choose between 4 creatures to be with through the game and their all awesome. EXCEPT 
 FOR THE COW!!!! He/She is stupider then the rest of the creatures; what could a cow do in a fight!!! 
 The wolf I think is the best of them all. 
  
  The only downside is that after you finish learning how to get done with the first world you go 
 to a second world that's about to die. An what is up with that giant ape, that does magic. It summons 
 volcano's after you only save a few people and after you kill some of his Aztec buddies.
  
  But enough with the hating the game is still awesome and i think that everybody with a top of the 
 pc or laptop should go out and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevinKell
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  Black and White 2, in almost every aspect, has shown great improvement over Black and White. You 
 are still god, are are still free, and of course, you still have you're pet. The range of buildings 
 now avalable is awsome! The creature is the best virtual pet ever made! The story line is much 
 more solid and constructive then in BW. 
  
  Unfortunately, the AI leave's something to be desired. The armies are, infact, retarded. They are 
 so passive that, when in obvious harm's way, they just stand there! They are suicidal in many cases, 
 and only useful in mass hords.
  
  BW2's massive storyline and gameplay makes up for the poor AI, and there are so many different 
 ways to accomplish the same goal, you feel you are truely god!
  
  Definately worth every peny! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joezer3003
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 12:06 am PT
Review:  Having never played Black and White 1 (save for a few minutes at my good friend Reece's house) 
 I offer a review that is unblemished by any fanboism that may be found in other reviews for Black 
 and White 2. 
  You should know the basic setting for any Black and White game. You are a God, destined to make 
 a great civilization out of a few people with the help of a giant animal. How you do this can be 
 achieved in 2 ways. Either you build an attractive city, so that enemies will desert their own 
 and come to you, or, you can conquer whoever stands in your way and force them to join you in your 
 quest to become the ultimate civilization. Difficult, yes; supremely fun, hell yeah. As in Black 
 and White 1, your conscious (which is composed of 2 opposite fellows) offers you advice on how 
 to accomplish certain tasks, and what sort of outcomes will occur. Whether you want to take their 
 advice is up to you....
  When playing, all you can see is a hand, your hand to be specific. With this hand of Godliness, 
 you can do all sorts of things. Toss people, toss rocks, toss cows, lay foundations to buildings, 
 cast miracles, and order your fuzzy creature about. Everything that an aspiring God could want. 
 Theres one catch though, you can only do these things within your ring of influence, a green ring 
 that surrounds your village. You can expand this ring of influence by constructing buildings, and 
 making your city attractive. However, a city doesn't function on aesthetics alone. You also have 
 to create farms and factories from where food and goods can be produced, and feed your hungry citizens 
 and creature. This is where things become in-depth. You can choose whether to starve your citizens 
 or not. You can choose whether to make your city beautiful, attractive and make sure that everyone 
 has what they want, or you could choose to focus primarily on producing wood and ore to make your 
 city into a war powerhouse. The former is considered the good route, while the latter is seen as 
 the evil route. Similarily, what actions and habits you teach your creature has different effects 
 on the sorts of things he does, and his physical appearance. For example, if you teach your creature 
 to lift trees (equivalent to lifting weights) he will become buff and strong. You can then use 
 him to take down armies etc.. Or you could teach your creature to help collect resources. Of course, 
 there are many different combinations you could choose, and this helps you to customize your creature, 
 and village however you want. 
  If you buy Black and White 2, prepare yourself for a visual treat. Each land you travel to has 
 different landscaping and looks. Many hours can be spent just exploring every nook and cranny. 
 The developers really did a great job with this, as they did in Black and White 1. In Black and 
 White 2, looking around and getting around is very similar to the first one. It is all mouse orientated. 
 You can swivel around 360 degrees, zoom waaaay out, and zoom waaaay in. You can also change your 
 view angle. All of this can be done with a few clicks of a mouse. Although its a bit difficult 
 at first, you get used to it very quickly. Be prepared though, you have to have a pretty powerful 
 computer to play this. Look up the requirements online first before buying. 
  The music is great. Its relaxing and surreal. However, I found thats its used in moderation. For 
 long periods of time, there would be absolutely no music at all. But, the sounds of a bustling 
 city and your creature grunting or snoring is enough to keep you amused for that 10 minute period 
 of no music. 
  To any fans of city builders and God games, I recommend this game to you. Not only is fun the first 
 time round, but you will be compelled to play it again and again due to the infinte number of paths 
 you can take, and different creatures you can choose, and customize. This is my personal favorite 
 PC game, and for good reason. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripleSizz6ix
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 28, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game right here kind of simulates what its like to be god, but of course theres some kind 
 of challege. The other gods through out the islands you have to play are there and are standing 
 their ground, or maybe moving towards you, but it all depends on the way you play the game. Theres 
 multiple possibilities just for one island/level. If you choose to be evil others such as the other 
 gods or tribes will see you as evil and might take caution apon you. But if you choose to be prosperous 
 and nice the other god might have ideas of either join you and your amazing city, or deceide to 
 make it crumble and steal every bit of resource. The choice is up to you, Black & White, Good & 
 Evil... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed_devil
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 26, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Black & white 2 is very different from the first black & white! I think is better in most parts 
 and especially at graphics! (of course)
  
  Lionhead has done a very good job in graphics and gameplay! The game looks perfect and you will 
 enjoy it very much!
  
  The visual effects are nice and smooth and you don't need a very good graphics card to play it! It 
 runs very smooth even in low specs pc's!
  
  The gameplay is so easy and handy that you don't even have to use the keyboard! You can do all the 
 moves with the mouse without any problems!
  
  The sound is very good too and if you zoom in enough you will hear the villagers talking and singing 
 and all that kind of stuff!
  
  For me it is a very fun and nice looking game to pass your free hours without getting bored! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legoloco
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 26, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  This is a good game but it get's boring after awhile. When you start playing it you will think 
 that the game is awsome. But after awhile you will find that all you will be doing is watching 
 your villagers work and.... erm.... mate. Or you will be building things, sacraficing and have 
 your armys rampage through towns. Or watching your creature eat, destroy things, take a dump, and 
 sleep. Don't get me wrong it's a fun game but you end up doing the same things over and over again. 
 I havn't beat the game but it can be rewarding, i have no idea. To sum that all up, it's a good 
 game but you will always do the same thing over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eolfson
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Black and White 2 is a great game, but it's gameplay is much different from any other game I've 
 played. Throughout the course of the game your objective is to take over all of the enemies and 
 cities that you come across, whether it be by force or the beauty of your city. The overall style 
 of the game is similar to other strategy games like Age of Empires 3, or Rise of Nations, but how 
 it develops in it self is nothing like the others. Building up your cities impressiveness to take 
 over your oposing cities is fun, but can get repetative. However the fact that you can go either 
 way, war or peace, makes this game is to play and fun for hours. I began enjoying this wonderful 
 game the moment I started playing, and it hasn't grown old yet. If you haven't tried it yet, Black 
 and White 2 is well worth your time. Enjoy. Feel free to visit my profile and check out some of 
 my other reviews while a make my way toward the certury mark, plus I went around to all my reviews 
 and edited this back in, so you should just have a look anyway. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radioactive1wiz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  I Played black and white the original version but i skipped on the expansions because i didnt see 
 the point much . When they made Black and White 2 i had to buy it. Black and White was great fun 
 and the only let down was the graphics and skirmishs which slightly confused me. Black and White 
 2 was really boring at the start to me because i had already done the tutorial of the first but 
 after land 1 it went straight in to action with the aztecs invading your homeland and you saving 
 people. I completed it 8 times (last time i hacked the volcano wonder to make it extremely expensive 
 but charge in 3 minutes to 40 people to make things really funny) i have won 5 times with a cow 
 and once with wolf as evil and once with lion as evil. I'd have to say Black and White needed armies 
 to add a little spice to the game because you couldnt really die much without em. I feel it was 
 missing a bit though with the creature fights and when i was hacking i noticed a womb wonder and 
 stoptime wonder could anyone answer to me what these are? The one time i realised i played it too 
 much was the time i was up at 7am still trying to reclaim my people after i killed them all so 
 it is dangerouslly addictive. 
  The reason i rate it 8.6 is the fact it made my house short circuit once and destroyed my power 
 core after enemy used volcano and the fact they missed some of the things that made black and white 
 so good for bad graphics.
  Heres how i rate good and evil though - 
  Evil 8/10
  Good 6/10 
  Neutral 9/10 for being hardest.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragN1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  Black and white 2 graphics is the strongpoint of the game. They are amazing; for example you can 
 see every blade of grass and the furr on the creatures is amazingly detailed. The water is also 
 amazing looking especially when the sun is shining on it. The thing I don't like about Black and 
 White 2 is... the AI. The AI in Black and White 2 is not smart at all. All they'll do is sit outside 
 of your castle and sit there with units while you shoot from the walls. The creature AI is ok but 
 isn't superb, on reason is it seems like you have to tell it everything to do and watch it 24/7. 
 The gameplay is cool, but the AI ruins it. The sound is pretty good too in the game, but the value 
 is a little weak. All in all Black and White 2 is a good game but not superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metal11games
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  The great gameplay and story in Black and White 2 makes a great and enjoyable experience to old 
 players and newcomers alike. This game will refresh your mind, and give you a complete new look 
 at RTS. All that was great from B&W 1 was included including creatures, great story and gameplay 
 elements, plus it includes new features such as a more intelligent creature design, more comprehensive 
 tutorials and easy-to-learn gameplay. This game will hook you in and leave you hungry for more 
 once you finish this amazing game. Just right for every player wishing to have a new and enjoyable 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Black & White 2 is a very nice sequel to the first, and just as fun too. The game is the same as 
 last time you are a god and must control, and choose to help your people or not. You have a choice 
 to be a good or an evil god, and that helps the replay ability a lot. Their are four creature's 
 to choose from and you can make them fit for war or just a peaceful farmer or builder. The graphics 
 have been majorly upgraded here and are absolutely stunning. The water in particular is, in my 
 opinion the best I have seen in any game to date and it has very nice lighting. All in all it is 
 a solid game and if your in too god games or RPG's then you should pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orkyjork90
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  The gods have returned. And they came bearing gifts. Kinda like Santa, but instead of toys, they 
 brought the ability for you to make massive armies and wage wars, as well as your creature to pick 
 up more stuff, and throw it at an increased number of other stuff. The game is pretty addictive. 
 The graphics are amazing, and the gameplay has improved. It isn't a very hard game, but it isn't 
 too simple like the other one was either. It's also fairly easy to catch on aswell. There are downsides 
 to the game aswell. One is rather than increase the number of potential pets of war or peace, they 
 reduced them. The other is that the main box is mis-leading, and unless you have a specific graphics 
 card, you can't play the game. So you'll have to be careful with that, (I spent a good 2 months 
 waiting on my brother to send me his old one that supported it) . Other than that, I can see no real 
 other downfall. The people, creatures, and the AI in general have been granted the intelligence 
 they so soarly needed. They no longer are as dependant as they were, but if you leave them alone, 
 it'll be horrible. Granted there are still a few glitches in the game to still be worked out, but 
 there are patches for that. I'd highly recommend getting this game, expecially if your bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suzurin
Rating: 5.4
Date: Feb 17, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  Black and White 2 has really disappointed me. For those of you who played the first and loved the 
 sheer freedom the game gave you, you're probably feeling just like me.
  
  Black and White let's you play as God. You have power and your people worship you, which gives 
 you more power. In exchange, however, you must tend to your peoples needs. You can do that, or 
 you can demand their faith and threaten them with your might. You can choose from good or evil. 
 Your actions determine what you are. You also have the option of choosing from 4 different pets 
 that you can train to be good or evil. In the first version, I was blown away by this. In the second, 
 it gave me a migrane.
  
  Black and White 2 pretty much destroyed what made the game so great in the first place. The freedom 
 to choose. The second installment pretty much takes a huge portion of that away from you. In the 
 previous version, your conscience (Yin and Yang) tell you whats going on, give you a tutorial in 
 the beginning and give you tips throughout the game and leave it at that. Perfect. In this version, 
 your conscience is calling the shots. Everything, I mean everything, is for the sake of the story. 
 It really feels like you're being rushed along to finish the story up. You have no time to enjoy 
 your creature, you have no time to enjoy your village, you HAVE to move on with the story and tend 
 to your creature and villagers at the same time. Basically, it's way too linear than it should 
 be and doesn't give you enough time to do what you need/want to do.
  
  Conclusion:
  This game, Black and White 2, is NOT what Black and White is. Black and White is about choice, 
 freedom, and consequences. Black and White 2 gives you a cheap knock-off of this. Yes, it does 
 make a few very good improvements such as being able to actually see what your people need and 
 want, being able to see what your creature is thinking and feeling, and having another way to see 
 your alignment other than your hand. But after butchering what made the original game great, that 
 does not make up for it. Instead of making a prequel, this would have made a much better expansion 
 pack instead. New creatures, new features, updated graphics, more lands, new human races, new buildings 
 to make, new Godly abilities and the same gameplay we knew and loved. Perfect. But alas, Lionhead 
 messed up big time.
  
  For newcomers to the game, I suggest getting the first Black and White BEFORE this game. Just so 
 you can see exactly what Black and White is really about. If you do get the second version, rent 
 it. That way you'll be disappointed at half the cost. This is my own, personal opinion and fans 
 of the game are free to disagree, but my feelings toward this game will not change. The end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waddlingpeng92
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 15, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  This game is amzing if you like Black and white one you will love this one. It has loads of mini 
 games and gives you all the choses.
  
  Deffently bye this game
  
  I hate having to put more wordsI hate having to put more wordsI hate having to put more wordsI 
 hate having to put more wordsI hate having to put more wordsI hate having to put more wordsI hate 
 having to put more wordsI hate having to put more wordsI hate having to put more wordsI hate having 
 to put more wordsI hate having to put more wordsI hate having to put more wordsI hate having to 
 put more wordsI hate having to put more wordsI hate having to put more wordsI hate having to put 
 more wordsI hate having to put more wordsI hate having to put more wordsI hate having to put more 
 wordsI hate having to put more wordsI hate having to put more wordsI hate having to put more wordsI 
 hate having to put more wordsI hate having to put more wordsI hate having to put more wordsI hate 
 having to put more wordsI hate having to put more wordsI hate having to put more wordsI hate having 
 to put more wordsI hate having to put more words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BowlingBadger
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 12, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  You can definantly tell this is Black and White. With some nice tweaks. Using tribute to buy different 
 items makes me a little angry, but at least you get to choose besides just unlocking them who they 
 want you to. The world is ------------------------------------ that much better than the first 
 one, what I'm trying to say is the world is beautiful. They took out the long loading times for 
 when you switch from profile to profile and the loading times in general aren't to bad. God building 
 is a nice add-on along with multi-pickup and hand forcing. A few of the things from the first one 
 you might miss: There are no food or wood miracles only: water, heal, meteor, shield, fireball, 
 and another I can't think of. The good is your creature is not such a retard this time around either. 
 I mean in 2001 he might have been kinda smart, but by 2005 people think the creature is stupid. 
 Lionhead has made some nice tweaks and I salute them, OH YEAH, you can start wars too, rock on. 
 You could impress the town or ust smash 'em. The no scaffold idea is a GREAT idea because you save 
 a lot of wood that way ( yeah you need it now considering there is no miracle for it) . As X-Play 
 would say we give Black and White 2, a 4 out of 5. Me I would give it a five. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigelf72
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 11, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  First off i would like to point out that this game is way better than the first one. Its gameplay 
 surpasses it predecessor in many aspects, and the creatures are much more well developed. The game 
 doesnt feature multiplayer just yet, but over the summer of 06' a patch will be realeased allowing 
 multiplayer to be accessed. The game has a few minor setbacks, First, if you dont have a sweet 
 computer, you may experience some lag. Second Creature A. I. could use a little more work. Thats 
 it... this game is very well put together. But in order to truely enjoy it, you do have to have 
 a really good computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -challenger-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  Black and White 2 offers yet another impressive and unique game play from its predecessor: Black 
 and White. With improved graphics, and more interesting features, the game offers an exceptional 
 gaming experience. The core of the game is similar to most RTS games, however in Black and White 
 2, the player is playing as the role of a God watching and managing over its people and towns. 
 Although interesting and fun to play at start, a flaw is quickly discovered as players move from 
 level to level (or world to world) and find the tedious strategy of constant repetition. A successful 
 strategy at the beginning could almost certainly guarantee victory throughout the entire game. 
 Another major setback is the amount of micromanaging needed to ensure the smooth growth of your 
 town which at times is daunting and insufferable. Military confrontation is also new facet added 
 to the game, however due to its primitive nature, commanding and engaging armies in battles are 
 more than often frustrating and complicated. The game also lacks a solid storyline and the basic 
 plot of the game is too overly simple. The grand finale is neither grand nor conclusive leaving 
 much of the players hanging and unsatisfied. Overall, Black and White 2 delivers an impressive 
 and unique game play accompanied by a severely flawed strategy and disappointing storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingpin_09
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  The game gets boring if you try to play it day and night. There is no fun in playing god if you 
 have to create stuff to do. If you have to create problems than the game is no fun because you 
 already know whats about to happen. By playing this game i have experienced how it feels to go 
 to sleep infront of a computer. Play this game only if you have alot of patience and stability. 
 LISTEN TO MY WORDS PLAY AT YOUR OWN RISK. DONOT BUY UNLESS YOU HAVE A NAG FOR BUYING BORING GAMES. 
 Listen to my ratings and youl excel in this life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PET_
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 6, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I am totaly disappointed with this game. Black & White means creature, it means you are a god. 
 I'm totally NOT a god. All i do is doing things FOR the people not for me ! Also the creature is 
 useless. It's not "my child" any more. I'm not spending time teaching it or other things. Also, 
 no quests like in the old game. It's just a simplified city building. A big big disappointing for 
 me. Peter should burn in hell. OR NOT! Cos then he will be the "Dungeon Lord". "the most uniq game, 
 the biggest game... bla bla Peter, you wanted but you failed it !. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yari-ken
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 5, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  Black&White2 is a brilliant game and the gameplay is fantastic!
  But there are a few small problems that i think could be fixed with an expansion pack .B&W1 players 
 miss the vastness and many silver scrolls of the game. I felt the combat in B&W2 wasnt "tactical" 
 enough and the game was far too short incomparison to the 1st. 
  I hope Lionhead studios make an expasion pack because then we dont have to wait 3 more years for 
 a sequel. they should add more levels, new civilizations, silver scrolls, buildings, types of soldiers 
 and maybe 1or2 new epics! I think they should add a multi-player just to give it more replay value.
 
  But DONT GET ME WRONG! Black&White 2 is a must have for any Stratigy gamers out there. B&W2 could 
 learn from its (minor) mistakes from its predessesor, B&W1 as there is more free will and better 
 storyline and i do miss the variety of civillizations
  The city building is the best i have ever played and anyone who is a fan of games like Ceaser or 
 Pharoeh will enjoy being a good God. Even though i thought the battles could have been better, you 
 need to plan out your army building to make sure you dont run out of food and people, so just sending 
 masses of troops wont get you far. and Finally ,the creatures, they can be your fluffy toy or your 
 ultimate warmachine! B&W2 is game that wargamers, citybuilders and pet gamers will love, depending 
 on how they play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destroyeron13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 4, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Black and White 2 is a great game. I played Black and White 1 very briefly a long time ago, but 
 I was wasn't hooked. I was absolutely sucked in to Black and White 2. 
  
  The "tutorial" to the game is integrated very well, you'll know how to do everything, or nearly 
 by the end of it. The quests are original, some actually require thinking, unlike many other games.
 
  
  Your pet is very intelligent, and learns very easily. You can see what hes thinking and then either 
 praise or disciplin him accordingly. My cow loves to gather resources and help build things.
  
  I highly recommend Black and White 2, it will certainly entertain you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 4, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  Black and White 2 puts you back into the role as the God who controls his people. Like with the 
 first agme you first have to decide if you want to be a Good God or do you want to be a Bad God. 
 After these choices are made you can select your avatar (your representation) which you will use 
 to do whatever you need to within the game itself. The sequel to the first game boasts many changes 
 to its system, but in the end it doesn't have all that much in terms of new materals to actually 
 delight users. I would definately have to say that the game on an overall is still pretty decent, 
 but it would just be better to rent the game instead as there isn't too many new aspects. Although 
 the graphics have been improved quite a bit the game on the overall is still quite mundane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostlyMagician
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Well I played Black and White original and I liked it. The original had a multiplayer option but 
 I was not able to use it. Well the graphics are nice and so is the gameplay for B&W 2 it just lacks 
 a certain thing. Its basically like the original one and more buildings. There is a new form of 
 miracle such as water, fire, wind, volcano, and meteor. Basically what the reviews say.
  
  Now this is the part where Lionhead and EA screwed up on. They gave us sandbox mode after we conquered 
 a island (in story mode) one way or another but they didn't add a seperate skirmish mode or multiplayer. 
 Nobody in their right mind would have done it this way and I mean nobody. For some people it may 
 not be a big deal but if you add skirmish mode and multiplayer mode then it adds to the gameplay 
 and gives it a longer life. Story mode will entertain you just for so damn long then people get 
 tired and leave the game to collect dust.
  
  By the way wheres that promised patch your now hiding and about Lionhead and EA games with the 
 multiplayer/skirmish? You said it before you released it and now your stalling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racho
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 2, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  I've played the first Black and White and it was a game where I got into straight away because 
 it was a type of game that ive never come across to, it just grabbed my attention at first. This 
 is why I had alot of expectations for B&W2. First things first. The graphics were very very nice. 
 I even spent some time zooming in and out just to admire the details put into it , from the people 
 to the creatures and to the buildings. there are also other details such as the physcis of the 
 buildings, how a wall wouldn't just snap into twigs when an arrow touches it . etc. etc.
  It also manages to use new background sound for the game. (but i think the casting miracles sound 
 is still the same? doesn't matter that much tho.) hte voice overs were also terriffic esp the Good 
 side and the Evil side, the voice fitted pretty well into the characters. 
  I really have to say that I expected much more from this game, since the first one was so good, 
 I thought the 2nd one would bring more suprises and shocking elements. Despite having alot more 
 to offer compared to the first one e. g armies and better creatures, the gameplay was short and 
 repetitive. I did get abit bored after a while . esp the bit where i had to fight the japanese 
 brothers 3 times, and they didnt really show much of a challenge. I liked how the everythning would 
 change depending our if your good or evil, but its only by playing those sides to extreme will 
 you actually win the levels easily. I spent around 4 days playing.. and thats way less time compared 
 to the amount I spent on the first one.. I dont think i even finished the first one since I was 
 stuck on this really hard level... ANY WAYs
  
  I definately found the creature improved alot more, and I loved how you can teach it to think in 
 a certatin way. If only there were a few more new creatures to chose from     I would recommend 
 this to people who haven't played Black and White 1 , and for those who have, it shouldn't be too 
 high on your "must buy list".
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmater
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 31, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  I think this is the best of the 2 Black And White games. I like the way to select your own animal. 
 And the history of the game is much better then Black and White was. I like the wolf then it is 
 on the white site but it is a bit to bad then it is on the black site. But then the game is done 
 i think it is over, and i will not play from the start again. The lion is also cool. It is also 
 much easier then Black and White was. The graphic is amazing, and beautiful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beastslayer100
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Best game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : ) Best game it 
 rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : ) Best game 
 it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : ) Best game it 
 rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : ) Best game 
 it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  
 
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  
 
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  
  Best game it rules  : )
  Best 
 game it rules  : )
  Best game it rules  : )
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksr_rules
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 30, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Good? take over towns by your amazing cities and impressive buildings. Evil? Bring your armies 
 and your secret weapon (the creature you have trained since it was a youngster to do nothing but 
 evil) knocking at your rivals gates. Great game go and buy it! i wil start off with the problems 
 for this game and get to the good stuff after. The problem is that the game is too easy and too 
 short once you beat the game then you play the game over again only this time ur bringing all the 
 things you managed to unlock in the previous game (miracles, buildings, creature upgrades) . Now 
 the good.. graphics.. beautiful zoom out and see the entire island or zoom in and see your worshipers 
 faces.. creature.. make him entertain your worshippers, gather reasources, fight you enemy, and 
 much much more. There is so many good things in this game that it could take near forever to describle 
 them all so ill just name a few more... Miracles (Water, Fire, Sheild, Lightning etc..) .. Wonders 
 (volcano, earthquake etc..) if you ever get a chance to play this game, play it. If you ever get 
 a chance to buy this game, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CatsEye227
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 30, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  The storyline is great. Graphics are AWESOME! Creature is really cool (the wolf rocks.) Tutorials 
 are slightly lacking, but not so much as to hurt gameplay.
  The only game i've ever experienced where gameplay actually looks like the trailer. Go and look 
 at the trailer and you'll see what i mean.
  Check that your computer meets the minimum requirements b4 buying. They are a little high. (You 
 don't have to meet the graphics one exactly though as long as your ready for a slightly glitchy 
 game - nothing serious though)
  Definetly reccomended for anyone who liked age of empires or anything even remotely similar.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hedfelt
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 14, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  One of my favourite games of all time is Black &amp; White, created by the genius Peter Molyneux.
 
  
  This time he has done it again.
  He has created a game even better than the original Black &amp; White.
  
  This time the line 
 between good and evil is even stronger. It is possible to be a very nice God, raising a nice creature 
 of your own and make your villagers feel good, safe and comfortable, but this time it is also possible 
 to be even more evil than you really can imagine. Raising your creature to be a complete monster 
 and master of black magic has never been this easy before. The new and improved learning system 
 makes the whole process totally smooth. This time you also can build your own armies, to conquer 
 the world the un pure and evil way. Never before has it been this great to be God, this time every 
 tribe's faith is in your hands, and whether your hands are good or evil you decide.
  
  The true God has done it once again, he has created an awesome game with a very high replay value, 
 I worship you Mr. Molyneux! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeiiboii
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  I think the game is awesome with wonderful graphics the story is kind of bad but the creature stuff 
 is really cool. Its really cool how you can build giant cities and conquer other cities. I like 
 building massive armies and attacking everyone! Gee I need more words . . . lol. The sounds are 
 wierd but if you go up high u can hear nice wind and stuff. My favorite way to kill people is to 
 drown them (throw them in the ocean MUAHAHAH) Torture chamber (clean fun) or just to throw them 
 off a mountain (look at birdie) . Its kind of easy in the beggining but when you get to level 7+ 
 it starts getting harder because they will start attacking you and you will have to build archers 
 to defend yourself. Alot goes untaught and you will have to figure it out your self like the buy 
 bar when you click on the buy tab you can use a thing on the right to choose creature stuff miracles 
 ETC. Being good is rather lame firstly because your creature looks lame second because you dont 
 get to kill people third because you have to spread buildings apart (limited land) fourth you have 
 to buy stupid things like statues (blech) well of course IM evil but some people are actually good 
 wow. . Thats about it.
  Good game
  Must buy
  Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 28, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I loved the original Black and White, it was a ground breaking game when it arrived all those years 
 ago.
  
  You will all be happy to hear that the sequel is just as good and in my opinion I think that it 
 is a lot better. Everything has been upgraded and tweaked and balanced and the game plays very 
 nicely.
  
  So why is it so good, I hear you all say. Well, for me anyway, I like the ability to wage war with 
 lots of troops and this game does not falter there. You can have hundreds of people fighting at 
 once which does make for interesting and exciting gameplay.
  
  The 'creature' that you get to commaned is also fantastic and has very good AI scripted to it. 
 The game is good as well in the fact that it allows you the player to be a nasty or nice God.
 
  
  Underneath all of this gloss there is a pretty sweet resource management game as well that requires 
 you to watch the population etc and make sure that people are where they should be and are doing 
 what they should be doing.
  
  Now that they have fixed some of the problems with the game (saves, crashes etc) I can thoroughly 
 recommend playing this game, it is great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Saddler200
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 24, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  +/- good graphics, but there r really big collision problems. Plus the game crashes many times, 
 so youll have to save it pretty often
  + wonderful sound, everythings nice and stuff, your creature and enviroment and other crap is quite 
 good.
  - the AI is pretty dumb most of the time, like when your soldiers r like a metere or so away the 
 enemy still wont attak u, plus when u shoot them with your archers, they just stand there!!! its 
 annoying
  +/- the mini games r pretty challenging but it takes too long to finish, plus the pacin is really 
 slow and stuff
  - it takes awhile till u can get used to the controls, plus after like 30min u can probebly finish 
 the level, which is good but its really easy
  - your creature is really stupid, he doesnt attak the enemy soldiers at times, all he does is ROARS 
 then stomp then roar again and so on
  + theres an ok replay value, i guess
  - no multiplayer
  - its not as interestin as the first one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buccaneers445
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 24, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  The premise of Black and White 2 seems run-of-the-mill at first, but it later unloads into a tale 
 of good, evil, and fear. The first thing that you do in this game is choose your creature/pet. 
 You can choose between an Ape, Lion, Cow, and Wolf, and they all have their own advantages and 
 disadvantages. You can mold your creatures personality to fit your liking, with an intuitive system. 
 The creatures thoughts are displayed, and if you agree with it, move the mouse up-and-down slowly, 
 petting them. If you disagree however, quickly shake the mouse back-and-forth to slap them. The 
 creature has realistic reactions to what you do it. In addition, you can craft the role your creature 
 will play: a bloodthirsty warrior, friendly entertainer, wise builder... Through your story of 
 revenge, you will be led by your two consciences: an angel and a devil. They are nasty to each 
 other and provide some of the funniest moments in all of gaming.
  
  Circling around the point, Black and White 2 has some of the most varied and original gameplay 
 out there. There are five major islands that you have to conquer in Black and White 2, fighting 
 against the biggest forces of the Ancient World including the Aztecs, Norse, and Japanese. There 
 are two basic ways to win an island: defeat all the other villages with your army, or build a beautiful 
 city so villagers are impressed and migrate to you. The battle system is one thing Black and White 
 2 could have improved. You have to build an armory, create a platoon, and recruit men to join your 
 army. It is very annoying that there are only 3 types of soldiers and in order to manufacture a 
 platoon, you need to have an armory of each of them. This wastes a LOT of money and at first, seems 
 to make war a chore. In the battlefield, you can move your platoons individually and order them 
 to attack or defend an area. The battles animations are phenomenal, especially when you throw your 
 creature in. It is very apparent though that your creature is too strong. At one point, I had him 
 take on 50 soldiers on all by himself, and he WON losing only 20% of his health.
  
  City building is virtually perfect. The only flaw is the currency, where you get gold from completing 
 goals and receiving immigrants. You also get a steady supply of gold depending on how many followers 
 you have. When you what to build an object, you have to go to your universal toolbar and scroll 
 until you get to what you want. Next, you double-click and drag the object to where you want it. 
 The structure then has to built, and the bigger the building, the more it costs. There is a smorgasbord 
 of buildings to create: villas, houses, skyscrapers, mansions, storehouses, fields, retirement 
 homes, wells, armories, jails, graveyards, temples, altars, pens, windmills, taverns, shop, and 
 even daycare centers are at your disposal. There is a nifty little town center where you can see 
 all your towns specs: population, impressiveness, size, what building is wanted, how good or evil 
 you are, what resources are needed, etc. To make sure your disciples arent lazy, assign them jobs, 
 like farmer, mineworker, or constructor. There is a great feel to BW2 that you can do whatever 
 you want, whenever you want and that your people/slaves are completely at your mercy.
  
  The technical graphics of this game are superb, as the environments, creatures, buildings, and 
 people are all richly detailed and vibrant. There are only a few sound effects, but there is a 
 neat feature where you can listen to your disciples prayers, as well as the hilarious commentary. 
 BW2 has as close to infinite replay value as there is. You can play through the game with 4 different 
 creature avatars, which actually does make a big difference to how the game is played. In addition 
 to that, all 5 islands can be played in a multitude of ways of peace, violence, or a combination 
 of the two. Overall, Black & White 2 is a fantastic PC experience that will broaden the horizon 
 of any gamer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tnguyen496
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Amazing. I was anticipating this game and Civ 4, but this is much better. I was playing civ 4, 
 but I put that crap away and try to finish this game first. The graphics and story line are great. 
 Kinda wish the Wonders are easier to cast spell though, it took forever for the prayer to come 
 through. But I guess it's understandable since you wouldn't want the enemy to destroy you that 
 quick. But yeah, this game is great especially my creature can attack the enemies. I had a great 
 laugh when my monkey went retarded on the enemy's creature's face. My creature kept beating on 
 the wolf while the wolf is crying in pain and then died. The training of the creature is a lot 
 easier this time around also -- like that a lot. Saves me a lot of frustration. Well, gotta go back 
 and pull an all-nighter with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpdolphins
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  hello guyz after the launching of balck & white i am play this game. the is delight full but this 
 game is good then before. graphics are much good then before the story of this game is really good 
 peter molynux is a great game director and i pray to god that give the best ideas of to peter molynux. and 
 you are also exited about this that the creatures are very good in angel or evil what ever they 
 are so smart and you feel very good and auspisious 
  about you creature like the creature is you pet you tell that any thing he can do you turn the 
 direction of you creature to good or evil its up to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhabazatknis
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 22, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  I 've waited for this game since I beat the first Black and White . in the EA games reviews it 
 said that this game will have a much more advanced creature but my personal opinion after playing 
 Black and White 2 is that the creature is a robot comparing to the creature in the first BaW. In 
 BaW 1 the creature was more life like than it is in BaW2 . So the only flaw in BaW2 is the creature 
 (its disappointing because EA Games promised that the creature will be better) . The depth of strategy 
 in BaW2 is obviously more advanced than in BaW 1. I was really impressed with the variety of buildings 
 and the new powerful Epic Miracles (i. e. volcano , earthquake, siren ,e. t. c) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_zax
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up on release day and skipped all the way home, with dreams of slapping Pets, 
 and growing fields of lush grain. I was ready to give it atens across the boards after playing 
 it straight through the first time, but I couldn't because that would cut valuable minutes off 
 of playing it through again, and then again. So now I'm halfway through it for the fourth time, 
 and I'm already planning my fifth run.
  
  The controls are a little bit difficult to get used to at first, but become as regular as your 
 creatures bowel movements after the basic training maps. Unfortunately it falls a little short 
 in army control. Though it is easy to get your legions to rob and pillage, It is just as easy to 
 lose track of what's going on back in your town. It seems like your warriors require constant attention 
 to keep them on track. Perhaps this game is less of an RTS, and more of an RPG-hybrid.
  
  In any case Black and White 2 offers allot of good solid game play, and excellent replay value. 
 If you liked the first one, have a god complex, or are just curious as to what a Giant Evil Cow 
 might look like, then give Black and White 2 a spin. I think you'll be pleasantly surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WieldsTokijin
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 18, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  The original Black and White was groundbreaking. Not only was it a fun strategy title, but it successfully 
 captured the fun of being a God in a computer game. Black and White 2 was a much anticipated sequel, 
 which did away with much of the open ended gameplay and made it more structured. I'm sure this 
 game could be fun for some.. but just not for very long.
  
  The game begins as introducing you as a God. You have just awaken from some slumber, and it is 
 time for you to start ruling. The tutorial starts off teaching you way more than you need to know 
 to play. You have to learn to move forward, backward, zoom in, zoom out.. it can take around 15 
 minutes just to get out of it. Then, you need to choose a beast to grow up and help you out. There 
 are only 4 choices, and they all basically grow and act the same. This beast is your best fighter, 
 gatherer, builder, and entertainer as you fight for revenge against the Aztecs. The game allows 
 you to control all of your own decisions, which determine if you end up good or evil. It's a good 
 concept, but ultimately the execution is lacking. Nothing really special happens with turning either 
 way, so it's pointless. The most fun you can get out of this game, is following around your creature 
 and playing with him, since he is really a fun virtual pet to have. But, beyond that the game is 
 not fun.
  
  Graphically, Black and White 2 is playable. The beast looks pretty good, and in detail.. Yet, the 
 townspeople seem to look bad. I'm not saying that a lot of games don't have every single townsfolk 
 look alike... but this game has every single townsfolk look alike. The game allows you to zoom 
 in to look at things, but the closest you can get is still pretty far. The characters seem to be 
 almost like ants. It's not to say that games haven't looked worse, but games seem to look a lot 
 better in this day and age.
  
  The sound in the game is it's most impressive feat. Although your God doesn't have a voice, he 
 has amazing hearing. Throughout the game you can listen in on what the enemy leader is saying. 
 Like, after he gets attacked he gets angry, and says something like "I'll get those Greek". Also, 
 your God has two conscience. One is a small devil, while the other is an angel. They both try to 
 get a say into what they want you to do. One tries to make you do evil deeds, while the other wants 
 you to be a good God, and protect your people. Both of them have voices that fit their character 
 perfectly, and really work well together to bring some comedy into the game. Musically, it fits 
 but isn't too original. It has war music for the wars, and peaceful music for the peaceful times. 
 Yet, it seems like we've heard all of these sounds before..
  
  The game is very short and very long. Sorry for the oxymoron, so let me explain. The missions can 
 take HOURS to complete. But, after a few minutes you start to get really bored. You raise a few 
 armies, and they are immediately crushed. You raise a few more, they're crushed. You need a huge 
 force to be able to win the battles in the latter portion of the game. Guess what Lionhead? That 
 really isn't fun. After an hour or so you'll be sad that you spent the money on this.
  
  Black and White 2 is retailing for about $30 at the moment. Not worth it. Try 10 or 15 bucks at 
 the most, and this game would be worth it. The most fun aspect of this game happens to be the virtual 
 pet. But, if you own a DS just buy Nintendogs. Even if you don't there are plenty of cheaper Virtual 
 pet games around that can satisfy. Maybe if they had added an online mode, or just left the beast 
 to it's former, this game would have been interesting. But, sadly it has neither of those and all 
 in all is just a disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 17, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  When i first played Black & White i was fascinated with the concept of the game, but always i felt 
 that the intuitive system that was teaching and making your creature grown was beyond my control, 
 however, it was fun...
  
  Then it came Black & White 2, the graphics are marvelous, the interpretaion of your Good and Evil 
 coscience are great once again, and it has what i was expecting, a detailed control and indicators 
 of your creatures behavior so you can raise it properly and the set it free. I know that it may 
 transform the creature more in a tool than in a pet, but hey! i liked the change!
  
  The structure of the game is more settled, until now, ivent finished the game but the story looks 
 like pretty solid and theres a lot of thing to do and a lot of ways to do them. 
  
  Overall its not the innovative magik that the first game brought to us, but the fixes they make 
 on the engine and the game in general makes it a wonderful and enjoyable game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goda
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best so far the more i play the more i dont want to work, LOL. But really 
 the graf's on this game with 2 SLI nivida 7800GT's with blow your mind i've even played it with 
 a nivida G-force FX-5200 and still rocked the controls are kinda funky but hell once you play the 
 frist level you'll have the hang of it. This is a RPG lovers dream War yet story the best of both 
 worlds. If you dont like this game you need to go buy a nintendo and go play zelda then come play 
 this. But to tell you all the truth I love playing games like this no matter what you do good or 
 bad you always win LOL well kinda you'll see.
  The only thing that chaps my ass is that thay took 3+ years to come out with it and it only took 
 me 20 hours of game play to beat well i know not every one in the world is as good at games as 
 i but come on guys Give me somthing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingfisher_
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 10, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  This game has rubbish controls!!!!!!!!! I find myself literrally trying to force the mouce to move! 
 There you are at the start (wait a second just forget the incredably slow and borind tutorial at 
 the start) all your mighty powers and whats this! you find yourself struggling to move the camara. 
 Sometimes the arrowhead just flys off the screen and you spent eons trying to bring the camara 
 and arrowhead back together. The incredable animal you control is pathetic and you can't really 
 control it anyway. You have to search for how to control your army for eons and all the menus and 
 screens they say, you have to reseach for ages aswell. 
  
  WORST CONTROLS EVER!!!!!!!!!! Not just bad, pathetic, annoying, disgraceful, embarresing!
  
 
  I want to play this game, i really do, but those CONTROLS are outragus.
  I could be good with better controls, they're not complicated, they're just TERRIBLE!!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TyloniusFunk
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jan 10, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  There's no doubt in my mind that Molyneux is one of the game industries most ambitious and visionary 
 designers. Unfortunately, like the original Black and White, this sequal fails to deliver in a 
 number of fundamental ways.
  
  1. System Bugs- Like it's predecessor, technical issues from graphic glitches and unstable frame 
 rates to complete system crashes to the game failing to run at all mire whatever gameplay might 
 be there for an unacceptably high number of players. Lionhead technical support remains nonexistent.
 
  
  2. Non-System Bugs- Numerous bugs prevade the game and destroy any sense of realistic immersion. 
 Your pet's toy rolls through walls and buildings. A bird in a tree remains perched, floating mid-air, 
 when the tree is 'plucked' from the landscape. Innumberable others. Minor but annoyingly prevelant.
 
  
  3. Gameplay. There is little or no challenge presented by a strawman AI. It is impossibly hard 
 to loose a battle if you try at all. The enemy presents absolutely no offense and will stand attentively 
 outside your gate until you have the convenience of killing it. There is absolutely no strategy 
 to any other part of the game because there is no contention for victory.
  
  This game is a true sequal, delivering both the same immagination and innovation of concept with 
 the same myriad of technical issues. Another let down from Molyneux. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedSoxRebel
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 8, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  This game is great its a bit slow in parts but its still a great game. The controls are hard to 
 manage and you cannot configure them. I hope that they bring out another 'Black & White' game. 
 During game-play the on screen help (God and Devil) are annoying but some people might find it 
 helpful. It is easy to get the hang of playing but be careful the game is highly addictive. The 
 game is quite long although if you have played th first game you might get your way through it 
 quicker. Otherwise this game is great and i would recommend it to anyone that enjoys playing 'Age 
 of Empire' games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frifflizer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2006 3:06 am PT
Review:  Black and white is an amazing game and much better than the first game. The creature interface 
 is also a lot better as you can now see exactly what your creature is thinking instead of having 
 to guess what your creature is thinking and punishing it or praising it for something you dont 
 know what it is. Those who liked the free playing aspect from black and white will be a little 
 disappointed as in this game there is no free play mode until you complete the story mode of the 
 game. Altogether the game is a great success and is a lot better than the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheonite
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game as fast as it came out in Sweden. I had high expectations of this game because 
 the first one was somewhat of a masterpiece... I could never think that the second game could be 
 better than the first one, and I was not wrong but I was not that right either, because Lionhead 
 Studios gave me a hell of a game when i bought it. And let me tell you it was worth all the money. 
 So where do i start? perhaps with the graphics, that could be a good start, the graphics in B&W2 
 is superb, there are allot if details and good looking environments. Especially your animal looks 
 really good. Probably the best graphics on a strategy game (if you can call it that) in 2005. The 
 sound is very, very good. it gives a feeling that you are out on the fields fighting with your 
 animal. Especially if you got a surround system. The game is pretty simple and does not give that 
 much of a challenge for about half of the game. But when you are about to conquer the Japanese 
 things get tough. I think the game overall is a awesome game and should be bought by all the people 
 that likes strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  I bought the first Black and White game when I was a good deal younger and I don't really remember 
 it, but I do know that I enjoyed B&W2 a great deal more. Although, as GameSpot says, the game is 
 fairly linear, there is a lot to see and do in this game. The ability to be good or evil is very 
 fun and I always get a kick out of hurling my innocent civilians off the peaks of mountains. The 
 miracles and epic miracles are great fun and look great. As with the other Black and White game, 
 your conscience is present and they provide a few good laughs. The creature is very interactive 
 and can do almost anything. A great part of this game is the armies. You can create huge armies 
 with thousands of soldiers, albeit this will take a long time, but it is great fun to send your 
 army into battle. Unfortunately, once you beat this game, the only replay value is due to playing 
 as good or evil again. Once you tried good and evil, the game becomes a little dull. Overall though, 
 Black and White 2 is a really fun, beautiful, and funny game that shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dlwynndnn1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Black and White is no doubt a beautifully rendered game ,graphics and musically, as well as very 
 user friendly. It is also relatively easy to learn the menus and play controls. Courtesy of a great 
 tutorial. The "god beast" as I like to call it is a great feature and with 4 to choose from a wolf, cow, loin, and 
 ape. They are in essence your unfailingly loyal servants and enforcers. As a god you get to train 
 them to do or not to do certain tasks. They also transform slowly to good and pure or evil and twisted 
 in appearance. In B&W there are also many neat side quests to either damn or save your people, and 
 to aspire to be a just (good god) or a unjust (evil god) . In which makes for a very interesting 
 game and plot (story) if you will. Also the voice acting is not to shabby either. The con to this 
 game ,I found so far is that even with a decent processor and 256 MB 3-D card the game sometimes 
 lags a bit and needs a better frame rate. Other than, If you were always wondering what it would 
 be like to be a god (even for a day) than look no further than B&W. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mongoose689
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  I admit that this game is a lot better than the original B&W in some ways but in most, this game 
 disappoints. By adding the advanced city building element your open up more ways to play and now 
 you can even recruit swordsman, archers, and catapults to fight for you. You also have AWESOME 
 epic miracles that you can unleash anywhere on the map but your enemy's influence rings. Those 
 are about the only good things about this game. Because you no longer have the skirmish mode, which 
 I thought would be reinstated in B&W2, you lose a lot of open-end playability. You also only have 
 5 basic miracles to use (The meteor miracle isn't included because it is so destructive, it can't 
 be labeled basic) . Your creature is now something from the "Sims" where YOU must constantly make 
 him sleep and eat because he will rarely do these on his own. The story mode is so linear it is 
 NOT even funny, its you take over the land by force or by influence. No matter which one you choose 
 the outcome is the EXACT SAME THING! Lionhead Std. were trying to make a "Total War" type game 
 and for the most part accomplished that, but in doing so they lost their original game premise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stebun
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:56 pm PT
Review:  amazingly fun. thats the first phrase that comes to my head when i think about the last few days 
 of my life, sitting at my computor. I wouldnt have changed what i did with my time if i could. 
 
  
  Black and white 2 had me glued to my seat from the moment i woke up to the wee hours of the mourning. 
 I had to force my self to go to bed.
  
  The only bad parts was the short story. It only had 9 lands (levels) . 
  But each land offered 
 multiple hours of game play. 
  It also could have incorperated a multiplayer mode or another mode besides the story. 
  
  botttom 
 line: Black and White 2 is well worth the money and i would recommend it to fans and "noobs" of 
 the series alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BioHzrdSco
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 1:46 pm PT
Review:  So i have been a fan of Black and White since it came out and have followed the making of Black 
 and White 2 and i have to say every update brought forward made it look even better and once i 
 got my own copy i found out it was better than i could have imagined
  
  Graphics - Breathtaking
  Sounds - Amazing
  Ai - Brilliant
  New Features - The new additions 
 just make the game even better
  
  All in all this is an excellent game i love Petes work since the beginning i have to say this is 
 the best yet ! and i cant wait and am hopping for an Expansion to this one or the next Installment 
 of Black and White as these games are just great.
  
  To tho ughs who played Black and White this is a must have for those who are unsure i would rec 
 commend it to those who are willing to spend time at there computer working there way through levels
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 29, 2005 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This is the first "God game" I've played and it doesn't seem bad. The problem is that the few moments 
 of being able to employ goldy powers are brief and fleeting. The forced tutorial at the beginning 
 can also be quite annoying. Specially given that the in-game transitions are too long. They are 
 very effective in boring you to death. The campaign is also with faults. Primarily it is too short. 
 A few battles with the minor villains, a couple with the big villain and thats that. Going from 
 building to handling units and vice versa presents its own annoying glitches - would be thrilling 
 for a masochist. Finally, this game is way too easy. Doesn't take one long to finish it in a few 
 hours. Bottom line is that you won't find yourself spending too much time playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cocanuta
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:59 am PT
Review:  I played, and played Black and White, and as soon as I found out Black and white 2 was coming out 
 i was soo exited, but for me this game has been a let down. Its gone into being more like setelers 
 ect the main point of the origonal game was not to build towns ect, it was to take over the land.
 
  
  Im not complaining and saying the building option is bad i think its a great adaption, but it just 
 takes too much time to build a masiv city.
  
  The armys on the other had is a different matter, i think it is exelent, verry fun, and adds more 
 stratagy into the game itself.
  
  Graphics, were to i start, they are exelent, and with my graphics card it runs at such a high level 
 is unbelivable. It almost looks real in many ways.
  
  Gamplay i have t osay is pritty exelent, sound is pritty good so all in all, i give Black and white 
 2, a big 8.6! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metallix666
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 27, 2005 10:25 am PT
Review:  Well, comparing it to B&W 1, i say this one is easy, you can take over other viliges very easy, you 
 can buy stuff, that's just kinda lame... i spent a week or so, when playing the first part, and this 
 part took me 8 hours to beat, it was easy. the creators should heave made it harder. the thing that 
 screw's up all the hardness is that:
  1. you can take over villages VERY easy.
  2. you can buy stuff, instead of earning them with a quest or something like that.
  3. if u turn 
 evil, u can go back to being good, by doing good things, on B&W 1 if u turn 100% evil, you stay like 
 that. that's where the fun is ^__^
  4. and the final, u can change creatures without a quest... i mean sometimes it's good, but... that's 
 wrong!
  that ends my review, sorry 4 spelling mistakes, i'm not very good at english...
  at the end, here's a tip for all game makers, don't make a game to easy to beat and if you enjoy 
 or like doing easy games, make a training game and a mane game! duh... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barbutza69
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 11:06 am PT
Review:  The graphics are good, the sound is good, the gameplay is good, it's the sequel to a unique game 
 BUT it gets VERY VERY BORING after the the second island. You are doing absolutely the same thing 
 every time!!! Sadly this is not the only bad thing about the game... they said they kept the best 
 of BAW 1 and threw out the flaws.. blah, blah, blah. They threw out the fun creature training... and 
 now the only way to train your creature is to BUY him experience. Example: You can't train your 
 creature fire miracle... you BUY it for your creature... That throws out one fun thing out of BAW2... THe 
 other thing is that the game concentrates more on building than on miracles or the creature. You 
 can play the entire game without performing one miracle and you can give your creature a job to 
 do like gather or build... and you can practically ignore it the entire game. The game is extremely 
 easy if you choose to be a good god and build great cities, especially if you've played games like 
 Caesar, because all you have to do is build and keep the city in good shape.
  
  Black and White 2 had lots of potential.... but it took out some good elements from the first game 
 and if your not patient and if you don't like doing the same thing over and over again.. you won't 
 like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dnom
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 8:29 am PT
Review:  Note: I have played the original Black and White to death and I have to say, even through all the 
 bugs that it was my favourite game and I was playing it weeks before Black and White 2 came out. 
 Also, I massively looked forward to Black and White 2 like many did, and I must say that this review 
 is not bias. Ive made it as non-bias as possible.
  
  The game: Im sure you know about this game, so I wont go into detail about every little thing. 
 Black and White 2 makes you a god, and youre put in control of bringing the Greeks back to their 
 former glory by destroying (or persuading) the other races. It falls into the category of a Real-Time-Strategy 
 (RTS) . You can build cities and build armies. You can persuade people to join you through your 
 massive city or you can build a big army and go and take over everything. You also have a creature 
 that grows and learns things from what you teach him. But, does it work?
  
  Graphics: Im giving this a 9/10. The graphics are truly beautiful, if you have a system to handle 
 them. Ive seen better, though, hence why they get a 9 rather than a 10.
  
  Gameplay: This gets a 6/10. Building cities is really easy, getting your villagers to do what you 
 want them to do is easy and the game itself is easy and easy to learn. Easy. Though, Id have to 
 say that the gameplay fails. Every level is basically the same: Build a city or build an army. 
 This goes on for 10 levels and then youre done. After the 5th island youre bored to death with 
 the same repetitive stuff and will no doubt want to play another game. Some things can be awkward 
 too; if I want to pick up a villager it will no doubt try to pick up a road instead. And when Im 
 placing roads or houses, if they touch a tree it insists that I pick up the tree rather than the 
 building I have been placing for the past 2 minutes. The game is very, very easy. Especially if 
 you go in the evil route, building armies and taking land, as there is little resistance from the 
 enemy. Every 10 minutes he will send a group of 20 soldiers to your gate and wait there. How fun. 
 The game itself feels like a very shallow, but beautifully coloured, puddle. There is no depth. 
 Youll be doing the same thing on the 8th island that you were doing on the 3rd.
  
  Sound: This gets a 7/10. The music is quite nice, but very repetitive. And the sounds are mostly 
 taken from the previous B&W game, which feels a little cheesy. The voice-acting is decent, though.
 
  
  Value: This gets a very low 4/10. No multiplayer and no skirmish. You complete the single-player 
 once, and then try again using the opposite alignment, and youre pretty much bored of the game. 
 You can easily complete it in 20 hours, and then its over. Pathetic.
  
  My personal enjoyment (tilt) : Ill give it a 6/10. I was going to give it a 5 but I feel generous 
 today. I enjoyed it; but got bored quickly. This game was a massive let-down. Lots of things they 
 said were going to be in, were not in. Do we blame the developers Lionhead, or EA Games for pushing 
 the release forward? Who knows, because I sure dont. All I know is that Im quite saddened by 
 this puddle of a game. A player can go through it twice and still easily know as much as the person 
 who went through it 10 times. No depth = no fun, in my opinion.
  
  Comparisons: Compared with B&W1, Id say it improves on some things, but fails in lots of others. 
 Graphics are better, but the game just doesnt feel the same. It feels rushed, even though they 
 spent 4 years on it. The game is very unbalanced, too. Being evil is much more fun than being good, 
 which isnt right! It should be the same difficulty but feel completely different. The creature 
 is worse on this game too. He cant seem to move around a city that is built up, at all. You have 
 to manually move him around, and most of the time hell get stuck. Also, he feels less like a creature 
 and more like a robot. B&W1 was harder and the creature was better, and I think that makes it a 
 better game than B&W2.
  
  Closing comments: Id have to say Im utterly disappointed with B&W2. It ends too quickly and the 
 story is pretty bad. It just feels like you are going no-where and doing the same things over and 
 over again. Your creature is good in many aspects, but doesnt make up for how boring he is. He 
 is almost completely useless if youre a good god, and almost completely necessary if youre an 
 evil god. A poor attempt at a sequel, in my opinion, and a poor attempt at combining city-building 
 and RTSs. This game had lots and lots of potential, and even if Lionhead do release a multiplayer 
 and a skirmish mode, I think the game will be left on the shelves to rot. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fijas
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 22, 2005 3:39 am PT
Review:  It was the first time i played this genre (Playing God) . And let me describe what i felt in one 
 word : Surprise. I mean, at first when i read about it, i thought it would be as interesting as 
 watching paint dry, but it turned out that i thoroughly enjoyed the concept of playing god and 
 smiled at the humour (although a bit crude) and missed a few classes in college. But it was worth 
 the money i spent. The game is a refreshing whiff of fresh air to the strategy scene which was 
 becoming increasingly repetitive. But the BNW & BNW2 came and worked away at people's imagination. 
 I hope it inspires many more groundbreaking games such as itself.
  The game itself is fun to play. You are god and you have to angels to guide you. One evil (with 
 the cliched horns and red color) and the other good (with the cliched white robe and celestial ring 
 over the head) . But one of the most innovative aspect of the game is the controls. You use the 
 mouse to control a hand on the screen that can be used for just about anything, from picking objects 
 and people to zooming in and out to breaking rocks and creating buildings.
  Another feature i like was the pet feature where you have a personal pet which can be a lion, monkey, 
 cow, etc. These pets are like the virtual pets and can be made happy or sad. They are also very 
 powerful creatures that can be used to carry out the will of god (YOU) . Our main aim in the game 
 is to acquire good will from the people.
  Go on and buy this one if you are an avid strategy player. You will like the freshness of the game 
 and you can play it for hours on end. Truly good value for money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oddjam
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great v. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShooterStan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Wow what a game for 2005! That's all there needs to be said about Black and White 2. Other then some 
 shottey controll issues it was a fantastic game for me, one of the best games for 2005, if not 
 the best. Even though im not a professional at reviewing games I still think this has to be one 
 of the "Games to get" of 2005. But there are a few flaws, not much though. There is a steep learning 
 curve to get through if u haven't played the original but it's worth it. Tons of replay value, incredible 
 gameplay, and of course gorgeous graphics that some pc's may have trouble on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: authun
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is great its a bit slow in parts but its still a great game. The controls are hard to 
 manage and you cannot configure them. I hope that they bring out another 'Black & White' game. 
 During game-play the on screen help (God and Devil) are annoying but some people might find it 
 helpful. It is easy to get the hang of playing but be careful the game is highly addictive. The 
 game is quite long although if you have played th first game you might get your way through it 
 quicker. Otherwise this game is great and i would recommend it to anyone that enjoys playing 'Age 
 of Empire' games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoem
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2005 6:52 am PT
Review:  If you want to leave all that surrounds you buy this game... with this game family, school , work... it's 
 all nothing. You will often find yourself playing this, game no matter what happens around you. 
 This game is very addictive and I recommend it to everyone!!! If you want to leave all that surrounds 
 you buy this game... with this game family, school , work... it's all nothing. You will often find 
 yourself playing this, game no matter what happens around you. This game is very addictive and 
 I recommeIf you want to leave all that surrounds you buy this game... with this game family, school 
 , work... it's all nothing. You will often find yourself playing this, game no matter what happens 
 around you. This game is very addictive and I recommend it to everyone!!! nd it to everyone!!! If 
 you want to leave all that surrounds you buy this game... with this game family, school , work... it's 
 all nothing. You will often find yourself playing this, game no matter what happens around you. 
 This game is very addictive and I recommendIf you want to leave all that surrounds you buy this 
 game... with this game family, school , work... it's all nothing. You will often find yourself playing 
 this, game no matter what happens around you. This game is very addictive and I recommend it to 
 everyone!!! it to everyone!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortel3
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool 
 Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool 
 Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool 
 Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool 
 Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool 
 Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool 
 Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool vCoool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool 
 Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool 
 Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool 
 Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool 
 Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool 
 Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool 
 Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool 
 vCoool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool 
 Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool 
 Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool 
 Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool 
 Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool 
 Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool 
 Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool Coool v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SupaTrupa
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 14, 2005 11:56 am PT
Review:  
  Lionhead has managed to release yet another technically incompetent piece of software that has 
 noticeable compatibility and gameplay bugs, performance issues, is short on length, and is much 
 too easy to beat.
  
  All that said, B&W2 does provide a significant dose of entertainment by refining and building upon 
 the ideas that made the first game so memorable. Clearly being able to control and teach your creature 
 through direct actions whose effects are reflected through a thought ballon cloud above it's head 
 is almost necessary. Creature roles are new and sub-divide the creature's AI routines into specific 
 groups on it's own, that allows it to focus on what you want it to do, without micromanagement 
 and babysitting, while you do other things. 
  
  Unit movement is intuitive and simple, and there are only 3 types of units available in the game, 
 making combat a matter of building up overwhelming numbers and a mix of unit types in order to 
 achieve battle victories and overtake towns. Units gain combat experience as they defeat enemies 
 over time, but in order to take advantage of this, you need to constantly merge new units into 
 your experienced ones, so that the new members are trained by the ones they are merged with. Otherwise 
 your experienced units will dwindle down and be defeated and you'll have to start over with entirely 
 new ones.
  
  The game is relatively short (8-10 hours roughly depending on your pace) and it is fun once you 
 get into miracles and epics, as setting an entire army or town on fire or setting off an earthquake 
 or volcano is fun to watch the first few times you do it. The Siren epic is also quite impressive 
 and useful.
  
  Miracles are a bit too powerful as once your influence ring is close enough to an enemy town - 
 it's just a matter of throwing fireball after fireball over their walls until the whole town is 
 toast and becomes easy pickins. Furthemore the enemy AI is putrid and will react to your open gates 
 or nearby enemies only. There also seems to be no reasoning behind why one creature defeats another 
 - they are all the same size and outside of miracle usage, they are almost identical to each other 
 in abilities and you just watch them go at it until one falls. You can also intervene and save 
 your creature by taking him out of a fight and healing him up, then starting it up again right 
 away when necessary - making creature battles kind of meaningless.
  
  Owners of Geforce 6X or above cards may have issues with the shaders in the game, via the infamous 
 "stuttering" that happens in-game, and requires you to use a tweak tool to lower them to 1.1 - 
 where the game becomes noticeably uglier, and zooming in on troops makes them disappear completely 
 except for what they're carrying... though the performance is much, much better that way.
  
  I've had many desktop crashes, in-game bugs, pathfinding problems, and other miscellaneous problems 
 that are far too numerous and widespread to go into here - all but killing the game's experience 
 for me as it should've been.
  
  Lionhead has not released a patch for this game since the day it was released and has failed to 
 fix any of the numerous problems people are having - lowering my rank for the game considerably.
 
  
  I cannot recommend B&W2 at this time, but hold out hope future patches and support for it's numerous 
 technical and gameplay problems are ironed out and added content and hopefully an expansion make 
 up for the poor, early product that this game currently is.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowYsenko
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 13, 2005 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is very addictive. I can play it for hours. 
  Its fairly short but theres 4 creatures that you can pick so you can just play over , good and 
 evil for each creature.
  Its pretty cool that your god and you can get miracles and give your creature miracles..... I highly 
 recommend this game to you all............. MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COW MONKEYS COW MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS 
 COWS MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWSMONKWYS COWS MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COW MONKEYS COW MONKEYS 
 COW MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWSCOWS MONKEYS COW MONKEYS COW MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWS 
 MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWSMONKWYS COWS MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COW MONKEYS COW MONKEYS 
 COW MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWSCOWS MONKEYS COW MONKEYS COW MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWS 
 MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWSMONKWYS COWS MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COW MONKEYS COW MONKEYS 
 COW MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWSCOWS MONKEYS COW MONKEYS COW MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWS 
 MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWSMONKWYS COWS MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COW MONKEYS COW MONKEYS 
 COW MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWSCOWS MONKEYS COW MONKEYS COW MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWS 
 MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWSMONKWYS COWS MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COW MONKEYS COW MONKEYS 
 COW MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWS MONKEYS COWS........... DAMN YOU 100 WORD MINIMUM! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eskouster
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 12, 2005 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I typically love strategy games, from Civilization to AoE and Warcraft, to C&C and Caesar and Populous. 
 But this one kind of sucks. 
  
  It's fun for a few hours, because the hand system is innovative and very neat. You can do everything 
 with just your hand (controlled by your mouse) , which get s you into the world. Most of the information 
 can be seen visually (piles of grain, ore, number of people) , so interface is minimal, which is 
 neat.
  
  But every mission is pretty much the same, especially if you build up through good. You just build 
 and build and build and wait for your impressiveness to be high enough to take over all the other 
 towns. Not very exciting.
  
  No multiplayer or 'random map' that I'm aware of, so honestly, once you played the first two missions, 
 it's the same from there on out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20648505842410216584325484843111-sonnycX
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 11, 2005 4:33 am PT
Review:  Amazing!!! Simply amazing! I played the first one an i had lot's of fun. The concept of being able 
 to perform miracles, build towns and being a god deciding what is good or evil is very appealing.
 
  
  After seeing the previews, interviews and playing footage that game spot provided for the Black 
 & White 2 i was convinced that i had to get this one, and as soon as it launched i bought it.
 
  
  The improvements made to the game make's it easier to play. Thanks to this you can play the game 
 using only your mouse. You could also use your keyboard but it's a lot more fun with out it.
  The most impressive thing about the game is the fact that you can actually create armies that can 
 number in the thousands (i think this is the first game with this possibility, correct me if i'm 
 wrong) . i had to get used to the fact that from now on you have to buy miracles, buildings and 
 other town improvements with tribute that you gain by completing objectives but i got over it extremely 
 quick being hypnotised by the graphics witch, are incredible. 
  
  Your conscience, the devil and the angel, are hilarious (especially the devil) making the game 
 a lot more fun to play.
  
  The environments are scenic and beautiful, the normal and epic miracles are mind blowing and the 
 story line is much more believable in comparison with the one in Black & White and the details 
 are unbelievable ( especially on the creature) .
  In the end Black & White 2 is a great game and i loved every minute i spent playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martin1990000
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 9, 2005 7:07 am PT
Review:  i have played black & white a lot and it was a much harder game... B&W2 was extrimely easy. and 
 i didnt find any setting for how hard the game shold be (easy, medium, hard, very hard) . 
  
  the enemy soldiers where really stupid they yust stod at my wall so i cold toast them with a fireball/lightning.
 
  
  and i slaughtered the whole enemy army with only my creature, the only thing i had to do with my 
 army was to take over the village.
  
  the creature fighting system didnt work, i had my creature top trained but i still got beaten by 
 the enemy creature...
  
  i have also tried to be nice and it was really easy to...
  
  is there any multiplayer for this game???
  
  i also hoped for more spells... it was only 4 
 new ones and some of the old where taken away
  
  it tok me less than 15 houers of gameplay before i finished the game!!!
  
  
  Whats Rewiewer's 
 Tilt ??????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flamingo121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I'be been wating for Black and White 2 for a very long time now. I loved the first game and had 
 very high hopes for the sequel, and now that it's finally here I can safely say that my expectations 
 (which were quite high) have not just been met but exceeded. Black and White 2 is a masterpiece 
 which although may not appeal to all gamers (cough halo fanatics cough) is a unique experience 
 that offers great depth and highly addictive fun. As you probably already know the game revolves 
 around you being a god and leading your greek civilization to glory using ways that completely 
 depend on how you wish to play the game (good or evil or somewhere inbetween) . Let me break this 
 game down for you step by step. Graphics in my opinion are the least important factor in a good 
 game but never the less when I first gazed upon the massive worlds of this game, the photorealistic 
 sparkiling water, the large forest, cloudy skys and towering mountains, I was astounded. There 
 are so many games that look incredible on the outside but lack certain details that give the game 
 a very professional look. B&W2 is not one of those games. the detail (especially on the creatures) 
 is simply unbelievable. A strong, moody, reflective sountrack adds to the experience and tight 
 controls alloy controlling your town creature and powers a breeze. And then there is the fn factor. 
 This game is drenched in everything that makes playing games enjoyable. The story pulls you deeper 
 into the game and I can almost guarantee you whatever social life you may ahve had will be greatly 
 diminished. In the end B&W2 is a truly great game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlmcgraw
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 8, 2005 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Do you want to be full control of your cities destiny? Would you like to inherit the powers to 
 control your people by the command of the good or by the mischief of the evil? This world adapts 
 to you! 
  
  If your an Evil god, by doing things from killing your citizens to making life a living hell on 
 your land, your world will adjust to your liking. Lava will flow beneath your land, grass will 
 wisp away and your trees will look like something in a horror film. The hand that controls your 
 land will become brutally beaten with long sharp fingernails to symbolize your greed in destruction 
 and torcher.
  
  However, if you decide to be a good god, your choices will liven the world as your people will 
 cheer for you and the land will look lust and beautiful. 
  
  So. My perspective on this game.
  
  I personally love it. It is one of those games where I 
 have control of the game and It will adjust to my creativeness. I have the power to pick up all 
 of my people and throw them against the wall... Or I can build a huge army to attack and take over 
 every village that may exist. Your blessed with a creature that will adjust to however you like 
 him to. You can make him an evil warrior that does nothing but eat rocks and smash oncoming violence, 
 or you can make him a helpfull villager that will help build, harvest and some other things. 
 
  
  All in all. If you're looking for a game with some GREAT graphics and the ability to do be a Good 
 god or an Evil god, this game is certainly a good choice. It is definitely one to add to the library. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameSnake89
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 7, 2005 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is okay a little bit of a let down. war really isn't that fun. their isn't a lot of big 
 battles. i would have liked to have seen multiplayer and short singleplary against u and 5 comps 
 were u try and take over each other with peace or war. Last, i thought this game was foing to be 
 more of sandbox where you have these different factions in a huge island and you can attack the 
 aztects from the begging if you want to like that. Next, I would have like it to be able to use 
 the inviromet to ur advantage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinister555
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2005 10:50 pm PT
Review:  This game was hard to control at times I say controler all the way over key board and mouse, bust 
 out the 28 bucks its worth it for this one. With that being said this game is fun to play , good 
 overal graphics and the storie line is evolving and keeps you interested up to the very end, although 
 I cant see replaying this one to often like I would a Command and Conquer or Age of Empires. My 
 personal favorite creature would be the cow although on the third Island there is a ogre cheat. 
 that is a cool creature as well just eat 100 people and poof there you have it. He is a slow creature 
 compared to the wolf or tiger but very powerfull and much more evil looking wich in my book is 
 a good thing. Although I must say it definatly rates in my top 10 of this stratagy type, a must 
 own but after you beat this one it will end up in your "Favorites I dont play anymore" pile just 
 like the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: human_urb
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Graphically beautiful game; city building can be fun
  Cons: Your creature is now irrelevant; everything is too easy to tweak to your advantage; battle 
 AI is brain-dead
  
  If anyone ever needed proof that game developers probably shouldnt be listening to whiny fanboys 
 and fickle critics, one need look no further than Black & White 2. The release of the original 
 Black & White spawned an avalanche of impossibly positive reviews followed by an equal amount of 
 venomous backlash from players and critics alike. 
  
  The luster of the games daring new ideas and gorgeous presentation gave way to a growing realization 
 that much of the gameplay wasnt quite as groundbreaking as the first few reviews led us to believe. 
 But in hindsight, the hyperbole of the criticism far outweighed the reality of what Black & White 
 had managed to achieve. And the crew at Lionhead clearly took all of this silly drama to heart.
 
  
  Ebony and Ivory
  
  So now, here we are with Black & White 2, a game that honestly attempts to please the groupthink 
 of fussy gamers and critics who hated the first game. Lionhead has pretty much addressed every 
 single criticism leveled against Black & White. In this way, Black & White 2 is a monstrous success. 
 Unfortunately the game has lost nearly everything that made the first Black & White such a compelling 
 title to begin with.
  
  You still play a god and you still have this cute little creature to boss around as you go about 
 conquering the people of several different islands. But how you interact with the world has radically 
 changed.
  
  Creature Comforts
  
  Lack of feedback was probably the biggest problem with the first game -- it's very hard to interpret 
 just what your creature was doing and why. Sure you could teach him stuff, but you could never 
 exactly tell how your rewards and punishments were working, or if they were working at all. Black 
 and White 2 completely fixes this. 
  
  Your creature very clearly communicates exactly what hes thinking through little thought bubbles 
 that appear above his head, such as when he ponders over the potential tastiness of a local villager. 
 At this point, you can step in and slap him around to discourage him, or give him a friendly scratch 
 to encourage him. While doing these things, a little meter appears that shows how much youve modified 
 his behavior.
  
  Gaming the System
  
  Every action your creature does can be monitored and modified in this way, making it extremely 
 easy to create the exact kind of creature you want within the first few hours of play. Its definitely 
 easier to understand, but at the same time, the things that made your creature seem like a real 
 free-thinking being have been removed. 
  
  In the first game, it takes time and patience to get your creature in line, and there's still no 
 guarantee he will always behave the way youd like. It's a tad frustrating, but it certainly gives 
 you an incentive to spend time with your creature. In Black & White 2, the creature feels like 
 an afterthought, an unwanted vestige from the previous game. Even the teaching aspect has been 
 culled to the point of irrelevance. You no longer teach your creature how to perform miracles; 
 you just buy them from a list.
  
  In fact, you buy pretty much everything in the game. Buildings, miracles, and levels of expertise 
 for your creature are all bought using tribute. Tribute is generally gained by completing side 
 quests and various objectives on each level, but most of these objectives are either dull or tedious. 
 Creating 20 farmers just feels like busy work, and in the end, has little impact on your performance 
 in the game.
  
  It Doesnt Matter if Youre Black or White
  
  Once you get around trying to win the level youll discover that there are two ways to go about 
 it. The good way involves building up your city so that it looks impressive. This causes enemies 
 to abandon their leaders and immigrate to your city. The mechanics of designing and building your 
 city is the strongest element of Black & White 2. Placing roads and buildings has a very organic 
 feel to it and theres lots of room for creativity in how you design the layout.
  
  But the good path really boils down to placing a ton of buildings on the map and waiting for 
 your population to grow. Outside of running out of materials (ore being the hard one to procure) 
 you simply cant screw it up.
  
  Im Not Bad; Im Just Drawn That Way
  
  The evil way to win is to build an army and send it (along with your creature if you desire) 
 to take over the enemy towns by force. Again, the basic mechanics of combat are solid. It feels 
 a lot like a real-time strategy game, but the friendly AI is brain-dead and requires a ridiculous 
 amount of babysitting in order to be effective. The enemy AI is no better as theyll happily hang 
 around on a hillside while you lob fireballs at them until theyre all destroyed.
  
  Your godly actions are also hampered by what the game considers to be good or evil. If youre trying 
 to be a good god, under no circumstances should you build an army, even if you plan on only using 
 it for defense. Armies are evil no matter the context. Even more curious is the fact that houses 
 are evil but villas are not.
  
  Shades of Gray
  
  And thats really the biggest problem with Black & White 2. Everything in the game is too clear 
 and too consistent. Theres no room for ambiguity or context. Youre either a goody two-shoes or 
 a complete jerk. For all the problems the original had in providing the player with enough feedback, 
 at least the incentive to experiment with different methods of interacting with your people and 
 your creature is there. In Black & White 2, its just too easy to take the path of least resistance. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fution2
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 2, 2005 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Hmm i remember the first Black and White game getting a variety of comment's, some good , some 
 bad.
  My feeling is , that the same will be said about Black and White 2.
  To you guy's, who loved the original, sit back and enjoy, because this will be fun.
  To the ppl 
 who didn't, maybe you should look away.
  The first thing i noticed about B&W 2 , was how well presented it was, as always the land's look 
 beautiful and you can see alot of hard work was put into the detail.
  Zooming in on your villager's is kinda of funny to, for instance , women who are pregnant , walk 
 round leaning backward's and obviously have a big bump, or your senior town's ppl walk bent over 
 and look very tired of the world they walk in, to me it was impressive and great to see little 
 thing's stand out.
  One of the more noticable feature's of B&L2 though, is your creature's intelligence.
  B&L annoyed 
 me in some way's, because your creature was so stupid at time's, but in B&L2 seem's to manage the 
 creature's function's and action's far better, although with some minor fault's.
  So what's new you ask?
  Well the ability to build and raise army's is a sweet touch by the boy's 
 at lionhead studio's.
  There is no better feeling , then going over to your enemy's town's/village's, and utterly levelling 
 them.
  Anyway i have to say i really enjoyed B&L 2, but as i said , maybe more for the fan's of the original 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesfoti
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 2, 2005 1:20 pm PT
Review:  The game wasnt what i expected. I thought the first black and white was amazing, but this isnt 
 as good.
  
  The graphics are amzing and there are some new features, but it gets repetitive and eventually 
 you will get bored quite quickly.
  
  Although the effort has been put in, it did not live up to its hype. I wouldnt advise getting this 
 game just yet and wait till it becomes cheaper.
  
  the cool feature of this game is mainly the battles and the fact that you can summon volcanos.
 
  
  I would have prefered that there where more side missions and that the islands wasnt so repetitive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Autaron
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 2, 2005 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Black & White 2 is a great game. It has nice graphics and the gameplay is good. However if you 
 liked the first one there is some things you should keep in mind before buying this one. If you 
 really liked the freedom in the first game you will probably be a little disappointed with the 
 sequel because there is a lot more story in Black & White 2 than there was in the first game. But 
 if you thought the old game was great but it lacked some story then you will love this game. And 
 I must say the miracles in the sequel are amazing. Especially the Epic miracles are a really nice 
 touch and make you feel as a truly powerful god. And you must not forget that you are now able 
 to create huge armies and send them into battle which is just so fun. There is some other thing 
 you could be disappointed about and that is the fact that your people can no longer build houses, 
 you as a god have to place them yourself and squeeze tree resource on the building and it will 
 build itself.
  Overall if you liked the first game you will probably love this one as well. The miracles makes 
 you feel so brilliantly powerful, it is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vamptech
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:16 am PT
Review:  I was one of the few who was introduced to Molyneuax's (please forgive spelling) work as early 
 as Populous: The Beginning. Needless to say after that capturing gameplay expirience i have eagerly 
 awaited each release under his name. Even for the shortcomings that the original B&W was subject 
 to i still thoroughly enjoyed another of Peter's works. Unfortunately this was not the case with 
 its sequel. Given the new mechanics introduced in this game, while excellent in theory, were apparenly 
 hastely thrown together to get another half finished game on the shelf. Of course the gameplay 
 was tedious as in the previous B&W but it was not nearly as rewarding. Sound was great, one of 
 the few pluses. Graphics were well scaled even on my aging machine. While the stradegy function 
 of your city was well balanced, even playing as an evil god, the short comings in AI and the near 
 invincibility of opposing forces made this a sad addition to my game collection. Low replayability 
 even after completing the game. While playing as both good and evil is a must just to test the 
 different functionality of your units and city, they both offered completely predictible outcomes 
 given the patience of the player. While i will still eagerly await another Molyneuax masterpiece, this 
 is certainley not it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Extreme757
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:46 pm PT
Review:  As I said, this game is a very good game... but alot of parts in the game can become really annoying 
 and some stupid. Say, I'll build a couple layers of walls to keep armies away (Since I'm tryin 
 to play as a good god) and so, I see an army comin. And hey, "they can't get threw my walls, HA" 
 but then they seem to run straight through em... : ( .... that's a REALLY annoying bug and I'm suprised 
 the bug fixing people haven't found that yet. This game wouldn't be so dern hard if there weren't 
 so many glitches.
  About the AI... sucks... it doesn't really bother me a whole lot but I'd really like it if the 
 game were a little more harder (without all those itchy bugs)
  The graphics are amazing, especially for such a large game... Although I do think they went a little 
 overboard with em, such as the ants and such. All that un needed stuff required ALOT of people 
 to get new video cards and stuff like that.
  The gameplay's fun, especially when you first start off... you know, tryin to figure things out... 
 throwin people, ya. But after a while it gets really boring. That's why I'm tryin out new things 
 that might have nothing to do with the game's story. (like build a bunch of buildings together, 
 and place some people inside... then just throw a rock.) but that's just me, becuase I'll do anything 
 when I'm bored.
  I like the physics of the game too, you can tell they spent alot of time on it. I like to gather 
 some people and throw em off a cliff and stuff.
  ANYWAY, I think this game is overall worth a buy. Even though the bugs and stuff. So if your into 
 godly power, PHYSICS, and blowing stuff up... oh and the giant creature. Then this game's for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarussi
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 1:55 pm PT
Review:  It`s a great game, but the tutorial right at the beginning of the game are not that nice. They 
 could ask if you have already played Black & White, so that whole tutorial wouldn`t come in the 
 way. 
  After the boring tutorial that you're forced to play, starts an exciting game that lets you choose 
 between god and evil, in a way that do not tells you what is right or what is wrong. I haven't 
 made to the end myself, but as the game is happening, exciting things starts to happen. Anyway, 
 it`s a great game, you can lose a week or 2 on it. It worths the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: typoon238
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 9:57 am PT
Review:  the game was ok. the letdowns were all the flipping bugs witch are anoying.
  I couldnt get it to work the first time. my bro finaly got it to work. After a day, the time was 
 spent reading the manul. the exitment was waring thin every. we was also getting very thrustrated 
 downloading drivers just to get the game to work. once it worked the excitment went. i enjoyed 
 playing it for a thew days but i hope in future lionhead checks for the bugs and listen to what 
 the public says the title. The gamplay was good, but a bit too short, to easy as well as confusing. 
 To enjoy the game to its potenshol you will need all the good graphic cards. I gave the rating 
 for the graphics 9 because if you have the write cards the graphics will be superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrkool21
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 24, 2005 5:04 am PT
Review:  Black and White 2 must be the best building and army fighting game ever!!!. As I played it I liked 
 it more and more. And the good thing about it ist hat you can either build and make a great city 
 to pass though lvl to lvl or you can make a giant army and take over city to get though lvl to 
 lvl. You will also get a pet at the start and you can teach it anything you want it to do from 
 building to gathering wood, food or it can be a big soilder that will help you fight. Tthe graphics 
 are the best i have seen so far. and the building system is simple and easy to learn. So if you 
 played Black and White 1 and liked it, you will love this one just as much. But it is a little 
 different I would think it was more of an Age of Empires game now. It still gives a great and enjoyable 
 game play experience. I would reccomend this game to any one.
  
  If I had 100 thumbs they would be up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsawiuk
Rating: 4.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 1:37 am PT
Review:  This game is surely well-made, absolutely gorgeous on the visual side, highly addictive in gameplay. 
 It is truly a material for a great game. But you hardly manage to notice all the above, because 
 it ends before you even start a serious game. A multiplayer option, which is a must for an RTS, 
 is missing, so is a map editor, real sandbox (that would let you select the map you want to play 
 on instead of forcing you to start from the beginning) . This game is, so to say, "half-made". If 
 they ever expand it with additional maps, spells, buildings, gameplay options and a multiplayer, 
 and make it last longer than the pathetic few hours, I would surely give it a 10. By now it's 9 
 for the visuals and the overall feel and originality, and 1 for all the other things I mentioned, 
 which gives an overall, weak 4.
  Oh, and it's highly overpriced, too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minten215
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2005 8:45 am PT
Review:  playing as a god i like that idea.
  its a super cool game because its you that decide if your good or evil.
  the beast is relay cool 
 to you can pick between a tiger, a monkey, a cow
  a lion and a wolf.
  i relay like the wolf.
  it helps you to do a lot of things.
  your 2 advisers the angel and 
 a demon wil help you be good or evil.
  il live in Holland and here the game costs 49.95,-
  thats about $55.50,-
  but its money well spent.
  my name is w. minten and i relay like this 
 game. 
  ;)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andoZo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 9:03 am PT
Review:  My classification is masterpiece.... but i'd like it to be "masterpiece but only almost"... Black 
 and White 2 is a very good game... 
  
  But it does have some "downs". Lets start whit the creature, it is not as fun to learn the creature 
 new things as it was on black and white 1.... 
  The General: the "army-piece" in the game is a little weird. - the enemies army will just stand 
 outside your city if you close your gate walls... And I also has discoverd that my army often run 
 wrong way f. ex. 
  
  Black and White2 have many "ups". The graphic can be amazing if you hava a good enough pc... It's 
 fun to be evil :P It got much more ups, but can't point out all of them now... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: human_sim
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 20, 2005 8:51 am PT
Review:  If anyone ever needed proof that game developers probably shouldnt be listening to whiny fanboys 
 and fickle critics, one need look no further than Black & White 2. The release of the original 
 Black & White spawned an avalanche of impossibly positive reviews followed by an equal amount of 
 venomous backlash from players and critics alike. The luster of the games daring new ideas and 
 gorgeous presentation gave way to a growing realization that much of the gameplay wasnt quite 
 as groundbreaking as the first few reviews led us to believe. But in hindsight, the hyperbole of 
 the criticism far outweighed the reality of what Black & White had managed to achieve. And the 
 crew at Lionhead clearly took all of this silly drama to heart. So now, here we are with Black 
 & White 2, a game that honestly attempts to please the groupthink of fussy gamers and critics who 
 hated the first game. Lionhead has pretty much addressed every single criticism leveled against 
 Black & White. In this way, Black & White 2 is a monstrous success. Unfortunately the game has 
 lost nearly everything that made the first Black & White such a compelling title to begin with. 
 You still play a god and you still have this cute little creature to boss around as you go about 
 conquering the people of several different islands. But how you interact with the world has radically 
 changed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirgooch
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:56 am PT
Review:  what i said above covers it i mean the game itself was not that amazing same creature ai and he 
 does the same 5 moves over and over but keep in mind the game was released way b4 they wanted it 
 to so you have to put in that the depth itself with expand and turn into a ver fantastic game there 
 is no sandbox mode but you have to give them some credit on them releasing it early it was a gutsy 
 move on their part and personally i do not think its a bad game actually i have 88 hours on the 
 game i absolutly adored the first one this is a solid sequil 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordnegash
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 7:49 am PT
Review:  Ofcause like many other i would expect alot from this game, when i first started playing i felt 
 like this was the best game ever, but then when u move on from the islands to the next, it all 
 just blend in it's all the same, and from such a game like black & white i would expect atleast 
 40 to 100 hours of playing time. But it all wen't so fast, all u need is one specific miracle and 
 you can win the game within 10 hours (i won't tell the miracle you must discover for urself ;) 
 ) Anyway The Graphics was great, the way the Vulcano just erupted, i liked that alot to see it 
 grow and it's massive lakes of lava burn my enemies while i was trying to cut it off from my own 
 city. Me and one of my friends was gameing this for some time, and then we discovered the Miracle 
 that would make the game too easy, after my oppenion it is ofcause a nice miracle but it's just 
 WAY to strong it makes all the enemies soldiers to be slaughterd like they were never there. I 
 must that my expectations were very high, and that came back to say that i was dissapointed in 
 the game, i would expect a longer Game, even thou the Gameplay and the Graphics were amazeing and 
 and a nice learning new miracle and building control, with you haveing to get tribute to get things 
 (Which u gather by dooing some simple and some hard tasks) .
  A new building would effect everything around it either it would make your villagers happy or annoyed 
 with you. Just as if u were evil and good the land in ur cities would switch
  
  I will give this game 7.2
  
  it was easy to learn for me cause i tried black & White 1 so i 
 won't exacly say how easy learning it is it might be difficult for some 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doom_catcher
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 1:44 pm PT
Review:  The game starts of fun but then gets boring it takes to long to start getting to the fun stuff 
 like getting army etc. The way the battles are is stupid they knock the men flying. Also the way 
 the creature battles are even worse i had a creature alot older and stronger then this other one 
 and the small 1 jumped onto itstraight away and slaughterd it. I would recommend not buying this 
 game there isnt much to it its easy but just time consuming it is very hard for them to take over 
 you because of the miracles you can use the game is to easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sooske_pa_talay
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 17, 2005 8:13 am PT
Review:  well everyone know how many years passed until we reache our hope... Black and white 2 is finally 
 released and its really a cooooool game
  i have played b&w 1 many years ago, i was a young player in that time and i didnt know many thing 
 about it, but 2 years ago i playerd again and i just find out it was a really masterpiece in it's 
 time.
  b&w 2 is much better than the first one.. the first thing you realize after passing some mission 
 is that you are the only god in this world and unlike the first game there is no god battle in 
 this game and it works!!!!
  the graphic is Amazing.. you can zooom in and see the ants moving on the ground!!!!! the creature 
 is the ace of this game.. its just beautifulll.... the base of this game is "do you wanna be good 
 or evil" and it really changed the whole game. when you are a good god everything is goldy and beautifull 
 your villagers are happy and.... But if you wanna to be a Bad guy! (i dont like this term) you 
 just hear the scream and crying when you are over the cities.
  the creature AI is changes a lot .. the teaching is veryy easy you can see what your creature like 
 to do you can change it everytime you like it.
  i think B&W 1 was better about your creature learning and hard too 
  when you work all the day 
 to teach your cow how to use the totem.
  the most funniest part of the game is the moments when your contion appear on the screen and... it 
 just a fun seeing them talk with each other and try to prove themeself better one!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProGamer7382
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 17, 2005 7:24 am PT
Review:  Wow, a big improvement over Black and White . It feel a lot mor like an RTS and lost some of the 
 freedom fro Black and White. Depending on the person you are you may or may not have liked the 
 RTS feel to Black and White2. Another thing thats really cool, you can see what your creature is 
 thinking which make it easier to ,mold him into the thing you want him to be. You go from I think 
 its 9 island (not sure) conquring people. But all the islans look similar and your doing the same 
 thing on each island. Great Gamr, bur repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarvis100
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 15, 2005 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This game brings so much to the table. Great graphics for the islands you run, and the battle scenes 
 can become huge. I like the choice of being good or evil and seeing it change your people and the 
 enviorment.
  The game is good except at the begining you may find it a little slow, but don't give up! Lionhead 
 Studious won't let you down.
  Now taking care of your creature can become hard, and time consuming, but it will soon not become 
 as much of a hassle. 
  The game is very fun and addictive, and seeing your cities grow can be the greatest. Now when you 
 get into battle, always watch. Some very unexpected things may happen so watch the battles all 
 the time. Now your people won't need to be babied which is very good. 
  This game is fun, and very addicting. Go out and buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hacer
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 15, 2005 9:45 am PT
Review:  It happened one afternoon. I got new shining box with big title Blac & White. Quick installation 
 progress and GO!!!!!! Intro the same as in first B&W (what'a f****) , NEW GAME and i saw beautifull 
 views, grass, water, mountains. I choosed my creature (Lion) . For first 20min i was looking at 
 his fur and textures: P Yummy. SOUND & MUSIC were ok even when i played for 6h, and that's enough. 
 And now thing that was one of the main advantages of B&W1 THE QUESTS. Quests in B&W2 are so silly 
 the tasks in minesweeper are more interesting. Generaly for all game we are looking after family 
 of drunk men. Another thing is CREATURE FIGHT which looks like mortal kombat on commodore 64 with 
 nicer graphics. I would rather buy ne civ4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marksjunk
Rating: 5.1
Date: Nov 14, 2005 7:06 am PT
Review:  This game looks quite good on the surface, and has some interesting features. My main gripe is 
 the difficulty of controlling movement and finding your way around. Having to hold the mouse wheel 
 down while pressing the right mouse button with the cursor in the middle of the screen, then dragging 
 the mouse in a certain direction... it's just far too complicated for what should be a simple manouevre. 
 It's not as if this is the only 3D game where you can rotate your view, zoom in and out, etc., 
 and other games are much easier to navigate. Basically, it takes a long time to get anywhere and 
 it's also hard to follow what your people are doing - it can take a long time just to select one 
 villager and choose a new task for him/her, and everything is too confused.
  
  I'm sure after a long time playing the game one can improve one's navigation skills, but it's just 
 not worth it when there are better games around. This game needs a better basic platform to build 
 upon.
  
  (By the way, I haven't played B&W1, but I imagine the issues of navigation are similar.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Square_Enix_69
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 1:51 am PT
Review:  When i read that this game was going to make a grand release in October i was really excited I 
 waited patientally for 6 months. I then got it the day it was released. I played the first 3 islands 
 and thought that this games awesome!
  
  Then I got onto the 4th island and thought well whats new?
  
  Each island after the fourth 
 are so boring its just the same thing all the way through!
  
  Build around 13,000 houses, defend off the odd attack and then your citys beauty goes up a bit 
 and thwoala. Youve won. OK mabye the next level will bring more excitement...
  
  OH how amazing its all the say just the current land owners gonna be a bit more aggressive.
  
 
  Builds another 13,000 houses, fends off a few more attacks, win the level. Saves game.
  
  Now I decide to have a bit more fun. I start again but with an evil wolf. First 3 levels quite 
 the same. Saves.....
  ......
  .....
  ..... Over the wrond dam file!
  
  has to start again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carabetta
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 12, 2005 10:31 pm PT
Review:  As i played B&W2, i realized it wasn't really a sequel, you could play B&W 1 and 2 at the same 
 time, like 2 very different games. B&W2 was my big hope for the game of the year as i watched the 
 gameplay videos from gamespot, but when i got my hands on the game, my hopes vanished. The first 
 one was one of my favorite games of all times, if not "the one".... but the sequel lacks the ability 
 to keep you in the chair, it's gameplay is boring most of the time. It has it's moments of course, 
 but when you realize that all the godly powers you where used to, don't mean a thing when it comes 
 to winning the land, the almighty divinity you where, makes it's way to the void. Just for the 
 record, i enjoyed the game, it's not TOTALLY boring, but the only thing that kept me playing was 
 my lack of disk space.
  
  Closing comments: If you have a new generation video card, if you have pacience, and above all, 
 you didn't play the first one, i recommend you play this one. If not, just remember the good times 
 you had playing Black And White. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiedhasan
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2005 2:46 am PT
Review:  I was only disappointed was about the game storyline... yea man the same thing in all eight lands 
 except the first land, which was a different one. All was only about winning the lands. But the 
 challenges, game play and the two consciences made the game very attracting to me......... especially 
 the bad one.... oooo he is dam funny...
  
  Now u can call this review a short walkthrough. I was very excited when I finished the game (unluckily 
 I couldnt finish the previous version) , especially when I finished the last land only in about 
 an hour... man it was the quickest one and the most easiest one.......... but of course it needs 
 a good start as without it u r nothing to the Norse troops..............
  
  Now I played the whole game with the ape and believe me I didnt expect so much from him. I played 
 with tiger (or lion is a bit confused) but if u ask me I would suggest the ape. It became so powerful 
 cause it could easily defeat the bald headed ape of the Aztec that is the most powerful one in 
 the whole game... and the ape is faster and more intelligent than tiger..........
  
  Now the combination that I used was I became 100% good and made my creature 100% evil.......... he 
 does the bad ones while I does the good one. Cause if u r evil then on the last land u got to get 
 forget about the CHANGE THE HEART challenge cause there is no scope of getting good from evil in 
 this land... u got to have to use ur troops so its easier to be bad from good. And also the creature 
 has to be evil as is has to do a lot of fighting (make sure he is a master soldier and knows all 
 the miracle. U should get the fire and heal miracle at first as fire is the most mass destructive 
 one and can spread... unlike meteor which is the most dangerous one.......... and heal should be 
 there as he got to heal himself to keep standing against the Aztec powerful  
 its all up to u too.
  
  Now I gonna tell the secret behind winning the last land in the most shortest time......... i m 
 not the best gamer of course so if anyone got better idea pls let me know by 
 
  
  The last land can be as hard as a hell if u want to be 100% good by looking after ur people and 
 keep them happy... but I would suggest one thing... make the largest amount of breeder and worshipper 
 possible cause all the soldiers will all the food, the people will die and so the new ones will 
 be there to take care.....
  
  At the beginning, u already got a large number of troops so dont get busy with the troops.... 
 instead just link them and move them to corner of the town where the alter is situated cause a 
 volcano will be there near the gate of the city.... now before doing anything build two wonders... one 
 at the side where two farms are located///destroy one a the corner as it will make ur influence 
 bigger and build the other one to the side of the alter. If u got no wonder then gets one and if 
 u don have enough tribute then u can forget about wining this land. Its not for the power but 
 for influence cause u need to deal with catapults and huge troops. Now tell the creature to build 
 one and build urself the other..... DONT WORRY ABOUT THE RESOURSES.. U wont need them when u r established... and 
 in the mean time make sure u got almost 70% of the people for worshipping at the alter and the 
 others for collecting foods. Now as the wonders r build no troops can penetrate ur city as long 
 as u have got enough manna to cast fire spell as much as u need. After a few minutes of the game 
 huge troops and the Aztec creature will come to smash ur town. At first take care of the catapults 
 using ur fire miracle as they can be very disturbing to ur walls. Use fire miracles on all the 
 upcoming troops and use ur creature to fight the Aztecs one. Some of the walls will be torn down 
 but don bother to repair them since so troops will be able to get inside ur town as long u got 
 manna. Now after dealing with all the troops and the creature make sure ur troops are far away 
 from the front gate a volcano is coming. This is dam destructive. It will destroy all the walls, 
 the farms and the wonder too. Dont make a move.. just wait till the volcano disappear and make 
 sure no troops can get inside from the other wall. As soon as the volcano is gone take ur creature 
 and the linked troops to the towns to start capturing them. As u progress towards a town Japanese 
 reinforcements will come from one town and Norse reinforcements will come from the other town to 
 aid u. Use them to capture the two towns. Now link all the soldiers and get ready for the Aztec. 
 U don have to expect any more attack or any more volcano.. only thing u got to do is start building 
 wonders at the end of influence ring to extend them continuously towards the Aztec territory. Now 
 when u reach there border now start cooking the. Now u r ready to take the town. Move ur creature 
 to destroy their walls and ur troops to destroy the troops.. and holla the stage is done when 
 u capture their town 
  
  there may be some mistakes that i made like writing norse instead of aztec but pls ignore them. 
 And if u have any comments pls dont hesitate to drop them at  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jammin_kirby
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 11, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is by no means a bad one. In fact, if you are a fan of the original you will 
 almost certainly adore this one. The building feature is excellent and very engaging. There are 
 a lot of other features that makes this game a good one. But the problems are there and they are 
 hard to miss.
  
  First of all, the creature. It just seems like a huge gimmick. Really he does nothing but moan 
 and eat villagers. Granted, he is useful for smashing up enemy armies, but that just makes the 
 whole war thing a lot easier. In a creature on creature battle, theres nothing involved but luck 
 really. Then there's the incredible aggressive enemy. The only way you can capture another town, 
 even an abandoned one, is buy building a platoon. The second you do that, the enemy bombards you 
 with platoon upon platoon of unrelenting force. Not to mention they can walk through any section 
 of your wall if the wall is incomplete. And if you keep your creature on a single leash for too 
 long (the leashes determine his job Gathering, building, etc.) he'll be stuck on that one forever. 
 So here I am, being bombarded by enemies, with one section of wall to build beyond my influence 
 (another irritating feature, as it is near impossible to increase your influence enough to get 
 to new areas) and my bloody creature refuses to build my wall.
  
  7.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uglypimp
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 10, 2005 4:31 pm PT
Review:  The original gameplay of Black & White combined pet rearing, open-ended gameplay, and tactical 
 warfare all in one unique package. Now, years later, Lionhead Studios relases Black & White 2, 
 the sequel to it's original hit.
  
  Like all good sequels B&W 2 brings us many refinements and enhancements to the original's complex 
 -- and sometimes -- overly ambitious goals. Here we have a game with much more structure and polish, 
 from the user interface down to troop organization and pet learning system. Menu items have been 
 streamlined, goals and objectives are more clearly defined, and good and evil actions are all the 
 more intuitive and seemingly more satisfying.
  
  For those unfamiliar with the series, the game plays either as a city builder or a tactical RTS. 
 The main objective of the game is to take over all cities on any given map. There are two main 
 play styles; either focus on building a city that appeases your people in order to cause surrounding 
 enemy villagers to defect, or crush them with the strength of your army. Or, you can blend the 
 two to achieve victory.
  
  The pet raising mechanic has also received an overhaul by showing the thought bubble of the animal 
 in regards to its current actions as well as a clear indicator bar of whether you wish to encourage 
 or deter the animal from doing said action. Another nice touch is a specific portion of the menu 
 interface allowing you to remodify any learned behavior. Simply pull up the behavior and pet (to 
 encourage) or slap (to discourage) .
  
  The pet AI, as expected, is as complex if not more so than the original and programmed to allow 
 the animal to develop its own personality -- or you can take complete control of the process over, 
 moulding the animal to fit your needs.
  
  While the game is more structured this go-round, with goals and objectives more clearly defined 
 and organized, the games structure almost leaves nothing to the open-ended gaming of B&W. Here 
 we have a more traditional RTS game in both spirit and body. While the city building is akin to 
 more simulation games such as Sim City, the troop movement and combat fits the mould of more combat 
 orientated strategy games such as Rome Total War. This makes for an interesting blend of styles 
 a player could come up with.
  
  While side-quests are abundent and satisfying to win (with a sprinkle of them on the too difficult 
 side) , the main issue with Black & White 2 is its repetitive nature. Once you begin playing a certain 
 path (good; city building, evil; war) you will probably find yourself sticking to this playstyle 
 in order to keep your alignment the same. Doing a mixture of the two will result in a neutral city, 
 which affects towns people's happiness, and in turn, affects the effectiveness of your victory 
 conditions. 
  
  Difficulty-wise, B&W2 rides the fence between easy and moderate. While the main objective of taking 
 over cities isn't terribly difficult, getting there is a long and often tedious journey. Battles 
 -- even with large amounts of troops -- don't guarantee victory as troop numbers diminish fast, 
 even against platoons with smaller amounts. And while city building is an easy way to establish 
 dominance on any given map, it takes quite a large city to make enemy capitals defect.
  
  Overall, from it's slick presentation to it's cutting edge graphics, it's easy to become spell-bound 
 by Black & White 2. If it wasn't for its unchallenging AI and repetitious gameplay it would be 
 an instant classic. If this is any indication of the direction this series is headed, however, 
 Black & White 3 may just get enough of everything right to give it the legendary status the game 
 concept so clearly deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazykazmikaze
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 9, 2005 9:04 pm PT
Review:  this is the game i could play for hours or until school starts (damn school) but any ways the graphics 
 in this RTS are superb almost Warhammer 40k DOW graphic by an inch but it still an awesome game 
 but, i don't recomend this game to any with a short patince it not an all out war game its just 
 a fun game wit no blood goin evry where evry 2 secs a platoon is massacred unless u want to be 
 a dark god then go right ahead slaughter away... but yet the combat part is sortof not good in a 
 way i mean their are no ifantry varients like no spear men axe men kind of thing that was just 
 1 let down but overall it was great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drizzt_xx
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 9, 2005 2:42 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying Ive been waiting for this game since early 2003 so it has a lot of hype 
 to fuffill for me. A first glimps at BW2 shows the games Graphical wonder, the grass, clouds, oceon, 
 tree's, and landscape rendered buetifully but it was a drag for many people that the game required 
 a 1.1 pixel shader that could not be emulated. After being wowed by the shinyness you are kinda 
 harrassed by so mundane totorials which arent as bad as some people state and that you can skip 
 if you have the 1.1 patch but its still a irration. The story in this sequal is more organized 
 then the original which some people will like but now theres less side quest which were great fun 
 in BW1. 
  One of the coolest additions to BW2 is the Military Combat. Its so awsome to see your little soldiers 
 fight too. Also its so great that finally you need more the a Steel Sword or a wooden Arrow to 
 break down a wall, and the physics engine make sure that you need a rock to break rock. 
  I found the creature this time around not as fun because it was a little too easy to train him. 
 This made the game easier but less fun, because the creature automates in to what you want him 
 to do so damn easily, that was one of my more bigger problems in the game. 
  Taking over towns is completly different then the original. You can either take them by force with 
 your Army or convert them to your cause by building an impressive enough town. Its so cool to see 
 an entire town pack up and leave their town and just come and say "We want in". This element kinda 
 takes out the wowing factor with mericles and your infulence will not grow more then 20 ft from 
 your buildings, so you cant cast many miracles on enemy territory which was always fun.
  Altogether this was a great game with some small issues but its so fun you kinda forget them while 
 playing. I do not recomend this game for everyone and unless you have a average graphics card dont 
 bother.
  This game definitly goes into my top ten. 
  Ryder
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lk1492
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of a kind. It adds a mixture of RTS and city management like if rome: total war 
 met sim city. I really enjoy the depth in wich you can build and measure your city. Many people argue 
 that it contains a lack of strategy while in honesty battles arent exactly strategic but the way 
 you build your army is where the strategy. In this game you have to mange the population make sure 
 they are happy and the population will grow wich means you must make your city grow along with 
 it. You cannot win this game by just building a barracks and clicking the build soldier button. You 
 have to draft people without jobs already such as  breeders (yes 
 they make babies) . this is a risk also because these people at the same time could be working to 
 improve your economy while you just have them waging a war that might not even be necessary. The 
 only time i really used an army was for defense. i won many of the lands through building a great 
 city while still having an army for defense and the occasional skirmish. Another aspect of the gameplay 
 i really liked was the freedom that made you feel as if you were a god such as picking up a rock 
 and throw it at a wall that has actual physics and will bounce of causing mass casualties. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackcrackerman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 5, 2005 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Hmmm, where should I start? You would think with the amount of time I've put into this game I would 
 have worn it out long ago. The replayability of this game is quite good, infact the more you play 
 the stronger your enemies will be (its actually based off of the size of your creature) . As stated 
 in the previous review if you take the path of the good guys you really get warn out with building 
 cities, sure its alot of fun and you can make some pretty damn good cities but the fact is it gets 
 frustrating when you have the CPU constantly attacking. The best tecnique I've found is to go the 
 path of the good god while training my creature to be a massive killing machine. With this you 
 can control your creature to do all the killing and destroying while you keep your good name. So 
 far I have beaten the game and still enjoy it but it would be nice to have a sandbox mode like 
 in the original black and white. Overall I am very satisfied with my buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustenFConti
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Well I bought this game last night. I had to download it twice because of some problems that it 
 was having. The game is not very good at getting a long so to say with other lower quality video 
 cards. The game wont even work with my NIVIDIEA 9200 128 mb AGP card. So i have to go out and buy 
 a higher performance card, i think im going to go with PNY this time. ATI has let me down to many 
 times in the past. So basically the game it self is phenominal but because it is designed to play 
 on alienware and other high end well known devices or computers. I dont personally think its able 
 to work well with other computers other than what it was originally designed and made to be played 
 on. So that makes me very upset. O, and also the controlls are a little harder than the first BLACK 
 AND WHITE 2. So basically its hard for me to actually judge the game when its not working up to 
 the potential its made to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eriktirto
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 5, 2005 7:50 pm PT
Review:  THis game is suXxXxxX, the specification at the back of the game is indeed rubbish, a total debrish 
 that will really evaporate whenever this game could go. It's sucCK.. I Barely can play this game, 
 come on, the graphic of this game could be say rather as good as Guild war and Granado Espada can 
 go. However, my same computer, failed to play this game. It crashed twice and forced me to restart 
 the game. For now, I can't say anything, about the gameplay as well as the expreience of this game. 
 But for now, i had already rated this game to be the most excruciating game i ever bought this 
 year. !!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesvecina
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 16, 2005 3:20 am PT
Review:  Black and white 2 has a lot of improcement. The god is still there. You are the God, no one can 
 defeat you. As the original, the game starts as you save one of the people in the island. Then 
 as the original, the people of the tribe will worship you as there God. The tutorial has the two 
 freaks, the devil and the angel, which they will help you as you play the game. After you save 
 one of the people, they will lead you to a place where magical creatures are placed. The creatures 
 are: Monkey, Cow, Tiger, Wolf. The Wolf is the new creature which in BW1, you can't choose it. 
 Note: No T-rex is allowed.
  The gameplay has also improved. The building of your village is the start of the game. As you go 
 on, it is the usual because, you build your village and improve it. But as you play it, you will 
 be amazed because, this time you can make your own army to wage war against other tribes in the 
 island. It's up to you whether you want to be good or evil. There is also new like, you can summon 
 deadly disasters like: Erruptions and earthquakes.
  That's all I can say for now. Enjoy. If you want to know more, just visit there website. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbomzi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 4, 2005 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is kind of long... You actually don't need to install patches because the original game 
 is fine. Additionally, it's not a complicated game because first, it teaches how to play the game 
 in useful tutorials. I, myself, like the game. This is pretty new kind of strategy; thereby I recommend 
 this game to people who like strategy. On the hand, learning how to control the mouse is one of 
 the criticized parts. Anyway, the whole game is worthed. At the end, I have to say, if you are 
 going to buy the game and you hesitate, just go ahead and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathlordii
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 3, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Although this game does get a little boring after some time, i do encourage you to at least try 
 this game for it is extremely addictive. First off you choose a pet to help you along your way. 
 These pets incluse: Wolf, lion, cow and monkey. Although im pretty sure more are on the way, im 
 pretty happy with just these. then you start a village with by creating houses, Farms, Worshiping 
 buildings and much more. Impress towns so that its inhabitants migrate to your town or just take 
 it over.
  
  As you play through the game you can buy spells. These spells include things that can Cause some 
 seriouse damage and things that can help your town or army.
  
  This game is not like any game i have played before because of the creativity and gameplay that 
 i wouldent havee missed for the world. Also the graphics are so awsome that its like looking at 
 an island on T. V. with giant monsters punching eachother and meteors falling from the sky.
  
  I give this game a 9.6/10 for these reasons and realy encourage you to at least try it as I 
 said before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PJonas
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 3:03 am PT
Review:  Firstly the games biggest has to be the visuals and the amount of depth in the game, gladly this 
 is not where it ends. The gameplay is nice to get to grips with as well as the interaction . I 
 do however believe that there is something missing as far as friendly ness goes as the layout is 
 a little difficult to get to grips with. Being an Web designer simplicity and depth are the keys 
 to success and I believe the same should be applied to games. But things can only get better from 
 here on with this new addition to the Black and white series.
  
  Kob well done and keep it coming.
  
  Phil 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 2:33 am PT
Review:  Well first of all, I would like to say that I was looking foward to Black & White 2. At first the 
 game seemed great. I came, I picked my ceature, and I began to aide people in their troubles so 
 they would worship me. 
  
  Well then the games prologue happened. THe story was underway, and the game was going great. We 
 saved some greeks from the Aztecs, and then we went to either impress or conquer the Norse. 
  
  I'm usualy a nice guy, so I decided to impress them with one large city. This was easy, considering 
 the start point of most games are easy. Everything worked out fine, I was learning the games controls, 
 teaching my creature not to poo on people, and so forth.
  
  The next map loads, the next scenario is at my hands. For about 20 minutes into it, something terrible 
 happens. My middle mouse button stops working in the game. I can still zoom in and out of the map, 
 however I can't tilt or rotate it unless I use the keyboard. For such a vast and large sandlot 
 to play in, it became rather difficult to map my city with out the ability to tilt or rotate the 
 map. 
  
  Things got worse from their. The games music started to chop up. It was as if the game was unsure 
 of how I was playing, even though my alignment was mostly towards the side of good. The Music is 
 certainly broken (No hardware issues with Keyboard/mouse, Sound Card, these issues are in game) .
 
  
  Now the graphics weren't too bad. You're creature (Nano like being) looked rather nice. It was detailed 
 and changed shape and size when it grew. The cities you built looked good, even if they came out 
 lop sided because the game couldn't detect your mouse. 
  
  Well lets get to the gameplay. With the horrible controls, and lackluster presentation, the game 
 was still highly playable. It only crashed once on me, and that was due to heat building up in 
 my machine... The enemy AI isn't too bright at the start. Later on when you meet the 2nd Japanese 
 brother, you'll find him aggressive, so aggressive that he makes his units camp just in range of 
 your archers, or just in range of the fireballs you can throw over your walls from your hands. 
 
  
  Sometimes your enemy can be stupid. The ones who do things with war are generally the more stupid 
 ones. If you put your opponents in a double barrier situation they'll easily trap their large platoons 
 and creature in a double wall. Once they're inside your first wall, close the wall to the city, 
 then close the wall leading out. YOu can then proceed to burn, strike with lightning, drop rocks, 
 or have your archers destroy the opposition. Enemy AI isn't well structured and leave a negative 
 balance in the game.
  
  The games resource managment is poorly done. The Enemy, and yourself, can simply never run out 
 of resources, with the exception of ore, of course. As for Food, you must have stockpiles of food 
 if you have that large army, this can be difficult, the larger the army, the more food they eat. 
 In order to get such a large army, you must have a large population. Now that you have an army 
 of 1500 men, you have to feed them. Who is working the farms? Most of the villagers you started 
 with have retired, they're too many to count, and too many to manage. 
  
  The villagers pretty much govern themselves, and their isn't much to do in warfare. Their aren't 
 any real special units, and it realy comes down to a matter of size vs. experience. 
  
  The morality system is a little off. Large cities tend to run out of food, you'll get evil points 
 if this happens, sometimes it isn't your fault. ANother note: you'll get evil points for having 
 an army. A good leader must have what he needs to defend his nation from invaders.
  
  Well, with my tilt/rotate missing, I couldn't build impressive cities. SO Towards the middle portion 
 of the game, I decided to go to war. I was simply looking for a quicker way through each map... 
 The game was becoming boring, it seemed as if I was just building the same lopsided city over and 
 over again.
  
  Anyway, if you're looking to play god, then you may want to check this game out. I do warn you 
 to stay away from it, as it is difficult to get through due to all the bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whomafia
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 7:13 am PT
Review:  The controls of the hand are a little tedious, but great graphics, sound, and so on..... I love 
 pooing on the villagers hahahahahaha. The cutscenes are a litlle choppy but that could be my video 
 card. The one thing I dont like is the villagers that just stand around till you tell them what 
 to do. Other than that great visuals finally a rts I can play and enjoy lkjzdfgkadfafga ga dfg 
 adf ga dfg a rg aerg era g adrsg er ge rag aer g er twe rt wer er w eryw ty w5y wr yw ry wr yw 
 ry wr tywty wr ywrty wrty wrty wt ywty wrtwty wr tywrtyw ty wt yw y wryty wrty wt wrt ywty wr ty 
 wrty wry wr ty wrt yw ry wty wr ywt wty e tyyty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkBunny100
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 1, 2005 12:48 pm PT
Review:  The game is very good , there are good grafics but there are some anoyng bugs . The game is very 
 good but you will get bored beacus you will think that you are buliding the same city over and 
 over again, and there is an anoyng sound like a beating heart that is repeating its self, but it 
 has great grafics (you can see the hole island whit the zoom or a colony of ants and the miracles 
 are good looking) .
  The game was easy and i think that you should not have any problems:) )
  hope that they will launch 
 an expansion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtombak
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 4:26 am PT
Review:  graphics are fine but where is the rest?? why do we have to suffer the same old game play. u build 
 your village, then comes the long boring wait. the wat for a challenge. the villagers around 
 keep migrating to your place, and some crappy puzzles around and a dumb creature ever if it learns 
 to do or not to do things yet it chooses to wonder around and do the most unneeded things to do!!! 
 AI sucks Grapchics and sounds are fine. visual team did the best of them but not the AI programmers! 
 
  the only thing that keeps me playin the game is the graphics, for now!
  
  oh and the in the reviews and other interviews the producers day that this is more like a strategy 
 game. 
  
  now are u kiddin me?? for heavens sake who on earth can call this game a strategy game!! it should 
 be called : build, purchase and wait game.
  
  and one more thing. purchasing the miracles for your pet is the worst idea ever!!!!! the creature 
 should learn itself so it can gain a personality as an evil or good. now its only a dumb who shuffles 
 the purchased miracles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ramaveli
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 31, 2005 7:36 pm PT
Review:  In 2001, premier Game Designer Peter Molyneux created an innovative game whose purpose was to allow 
 gamers to be God. You controlled the world of Eden using (quite literally) your right hand, manipulating 
 this world and its people however you pleased. This game was /Black & White/. You were free to 
 choose the kind of god you would bea tyrannical, Catholic-style god, or a peaceful, Buddhist style 
 god. And while the games open-endedness and charm drew in those not usually of the gaming persuasion, 
 its confusing directions and complete lack of interface left it feeling unpolished. Now, four years 
 later, Molyneuxs Deus Ex Machina has returned in /Black & White 2/ the long awaited sequel that 
 fixes many of the issues of the first installment, though still plagued with its own batch of problems.
 
  In B&W 2 you control the Greeks, who have just been attacked by the Aztecs, forcing you to help 
 them flee and rebuild. With the help of your pet you must help your people return to their glory 
 and defeat their Aztec enemies. Wherein the previous game your alignment was based entirely on 
 the way you treat your own people, the sequel determines how good/evil you are by the way you conquer 
 the world. If you wish to be a good god, you can build massive cities with impressive monuments, 
 making other cities decide to join your empire. If youre feel its good to be bad, you can just 
 amass an army and conquer these cities by force. Your Pet has little thought bubbles above him 
 that allows you to know what exactly you are punishing/rewarding him for. You can make him be a 
 ruthless warrior, or a kind gatherer and builder. But by far the best improvement is the addition 
 of an RTS style interface, allowing you to easily select which kinds of buildings or miracles you 
 wish to create.
  Graphically, the game is very sound. Each new land is lush with vegetation and mountainous areas, 
 with the full range of weather effects. Of course, this wouldnt be a Molyneux game without an 
 abundant amount of light bloom giving everything a nice, retina-burning glow. The ambient sound 
 in the game is clear and precise, though the music can be a bit bland, really only changing during 
 combat and not really adding much to the experience.
  The problem with B&W 2 is that, for all these wonderful additions, their implementation tends to 
 take away from the whole experience. For example, while its nice to finally be able to actually 
 understand your pet, his overall usefulness is limited. Hes only really effective when being used 
 as a soldier, at which point he becomes overly effective and can destroy whole armies by himself. 
 Also, the interface, while a nice addition, can be kind of frustrating due to the lack of hot keys. 
 You can only use your mouse to navigate itand while I understand the whole the hand of god motif, 
 it becomes a bit clunky when youre forced to control six or seven cities with one freaking hand. 
 
  But my biggest grievance with the game is that your alignment is solely determined by whether or 
 not you go to warwhich is annoying, since no matter how big a city you build, your enemies always 
 attack you, which means you always have to have an army at the ready, which means your always at 
 war at some point or another, so theres really no reason to try and be good. The charm of the 
 first game is almost completely lost here.
  All in all, B&W 2 is still a fun, slow paced game that improves on the original by leaps and bounds. 
 And while some of the magic of the first game seems lost due to these changes, you will still get 
 hours of entertainment from this godly adventure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lu_Bu01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2005 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Black & White 2 delivers you quite interesting experience. We will discuss the ups and downs of 
 this epic thriller for the PC. It has been the best game I have ever played for PC... game wise, 
 but we'll get to what makes it bad (for the moment) later. Now, let's take an in-depth look at 
 Lionhead Studios' new release.
  Game wise, this rocks. You can do literally whatever you want, only limited to the developers' 
 imaginations. It is very fun to annihilate your enemy with a volcano and massacre your own people 
 for the fun of it. You have control; all that lives in your ring of influence are mere bugs in 
 comparason to you. That is what makes it a great RTS. Though you can also win over everyone by 
 building a grand city, it is far easier and effective to blow them away with warfare. The Creature 
 is perhaps the greatest aspect of the game. It is in your command, but it has its own 'mind' and 
 can really be entertaining.
  However, the game does have its downs. You spend 99% of your time babysitting your damned townspeople 
 and get nothing in return. This makes it very enjoyable to sacrifice your own people. The game 
 is ridiculously cheap. Your enemy has pathetic AI and is infact programmed to do things in sequence, 
 not out of strategy. Their wonders are also a nuisence, as they charge instantly and there is little 
 you can do to stop them. When you attempt to retaliate against them, it takes eons to charge up 
 your damned wonder, as the worshippers age and people constantly die, making the living sit there 
 and weap. This is extremely annoying. On top of this, the game is very short and you only get one 
 race to play as with only three enemies who are all easy to beat.
  Despite all of this, it is simple to modify the game's files to change those little annoyances 
 like the Volcano wonder costing 100,000 tribute... something you won't get easily. However, I have 
 revealed in the hints section how to change that. Methods like this will work with anything in 
 the game, though you need to be careful, as some modifications will cause the game to malfunction. 
 Mod teams are gathering on the internet to design better features to Black & White 2 such as new 
 weaponry and creatures. This is promising.
  Nevertheless, the game itself is not the worst aspect of Black & White 2. It is the installation. 
 Look on Lionhead's support board. See how many people have problems with it? Nearly everyone's 
 game crashes because most graphic cards will overheat. Though there is a method to make your fans 
 run better, it cannot access the video card's fan itself. Every little challenge with a computer 
 will lead to a thousand new ones... remember this. First thing I did was install it on this computer. 
 Then, it wouldn't start even with the patch and 0 mods installed. Eventually, I figured out that 
 Windows had to be updated. That took 1and 1/2 days. To make matters worse, the game kept crashing 
 as a result of the video card overheating... goddamn. This is a problem that I have not stopped, 
 and I have installed SpeedFan and I have my box torn apart to get air in the damned thing. Even 
 more frustrating was the save game crash. Yes, if you do not modify Windows to allow applications 
 to use 950+ memory to be used, it will restart your computer when you attempt to save. To this 
 day I have not gotten the game to work on a computer that is not as new as Black & White 2 is. 
 Not all hope is lost though, for every game is like this. ATI and such release new drivers to fix 
 complications with games.
  
  THE BOTTOM LINE: Black & White 2 is a great game despite the many frustrations it causes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZCracker
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2005 1:18 pm PT
Review:  And hire it is. The new Black & White. After playing the first part over and over again preparing 
 for THE BIG GAME. And when the game finaly made it to the stores, and after giving all my saving 
 for it and instaling THE GAME and after playing it for 2 weeks all i can say: The game is so bad 
 and i regart i gave money for it because the orginal ovne was better thousend time. Dont get me 
 wrong new B&W has tromendeus graphics great sound and great gameplay but it misse theat something 
 that the original game had and stiil posses. So I am back on the original game playing it for 127th 
 time and I will probeblay wait for expansion or B&W3 if they deside to make one!
  
  This is all from me God bless you (HA HA theat woud be me HAHA) and do not make me angry or I migt 
 throw fireball on you.
  
  P. S. I woud like to applogise for bad englis because I live in Croatia so I do not speak it very 
 well! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FinalCrusade
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 29, 2005 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Though Black and White 2 lacks various things that were promised, and did away with many of the 
 things that were quite innovative from the first game, and should have spent at least another month 
 or two to clean up some of the bugs, it is actually quite a good game. The detail in even the villagers 
 are astounding, however, all of the voice acting, though good, all have a similar accent to it. 
 Though it changes the focus from being godly to city building, it also gives a good deal of options 
 for an evil god. However, the should have added a better buffer for whats good and evil. All in 
 all, Black and White 2 wasn't quite what it promised, but beyond what was promised, the glitches, 
 and comparing it to the first game, this is a superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kooleman8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 29, 2005 4:22 pm PT
Review:  And i said the same word all the time **** this game is a game that haves good aspects and good 
 Graphics !GOOD! and with the mod for play on the dark side and the good side... like Star wars.. 
 but no Star wars in aspects because this game doesn't same than star wars it's too different.
 
  
  I don't have much words but only play the game and say, i don't want to wnter to other lives and 
 thinks this is a game wi can be critic when you play it. i just say its a good game but the only 
 thing i don't like is the grapincs onn the part of computers, ok , it say, no all people in the 
 world can play this game best, because the problem of the good but Extremely good graphics. You'll 
 need a good Video Card to play.
  
  The time spent in this game it's much for that cause enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcwleblanc
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 29, 2005 11:02 am PT
Review:  Visuals:
  First off this game looks amazing, the world is highly detailed as well as the characters and the 
 creatures. The effects from casting your miracles are also quite impressive. Though not the best 
 looking game I have seen the visuals are quite pretty and a big leap over the previous B&W. 
  
  Sound:
  The character voices are done very well and it's a pleasure to listen to the good 
 and evil conscious', and that's not something that you could say for most games where as the voice 
 acting is usually pathetic, well not here. As far as the music goes I can't really say too much 
 about it as well honestly I can't really hear it off the top of my head, so I'm going to have to 
 say it isn't memorable but I wasn't turning my sound off either, so it was decent.
  
  Game Play:
  Here is where I personally find the biggest flaw, this game is just so damn repetitive. 
 If you have built one town, you have built them all. Sure you can save up your worship points and 
 buy new structures/miracles, but there doesn't seem to be any real incentive to do so, as they 
 aren't too critical in advancement. Sure, they make things easier for you but they aren't really 
 necessary. Your creature is great fun though and he does tons of things to praise/scold him for. 
 I think I've spent more time messing around with my creature than actually tending to the citizens 
 of my town. In the end the game play is fun, but you get too much of the same thing over and over 
 and over and over... get the point?
  
  Overall:
  Good game to pass the time. I would recommend picking this one up. 
  * * * * * * * *.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucklepper
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 28, 2005 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed they new game. I found it easier than the 1st, in most aspects, and loved the 
 way the game and creatures looked. The new Followers are far more intelligent, which means you 
 can concentrate on really focus on base building (one of my personal Favs) and creature training/base 
 defense or offense. Far easier to beef your creature up, although with %100 muscle polymorphs make 
 him look a wee bit stupid, but that couls also be because of the grphics card, im not sure! Good 
 story line and the tribute aspect is superbs. Also not having to feed your worshippers and give 
 them constant sleep etc is much better. Changing the time of day has also become a wonderous invention 
 which has help many times. The use of armies has increased the enjoyment 3 times over! And because 
 they increase exp etc makes it worth training them.
  
  Now, the down side - Game is a lot shorter (no skrimish or multiplayer modes (REAL SHAME) ) Limited 
 to 4-5 creatures depending on version. The armies need twice as much food so, in turn more famers 
 + feilds are needed, which sound fine until you land with a base e. g. final level - thats so small 
 there barely a room for 2 farms with the current pop and army - you pend more time trying to harvest 
 food just to keep your people happy - with combine attacks, ruins gameplay because you end up becoming 
 frustrated with its constant 1 step forward and 2 back. This is one example there are others, not 
 to say the game is bad at all, but it is annoying and could be improved. There is also generally 
 a lot less to play with e. g. in the 1st one, the temple had loads of thing to do, (which is probably 
 what the tool bar is replacing) and although the teaching of the creature is easier you teach them 
 a lot less, and its a mixed feeling because it makes smoe aspects of the game much better for eample 
 you dont have to reach %100 leaning on who the store house operates, but you do have to teach the 
 whats good and bad by stroking or slapping (very good - much more easier) but, some of the things 
 that can be learnt is cut down and would be interesting to see some more personalised skills. 
 
  
  Before i bore every one with lots of nitpicking, ill give the game an 8-10 - because i still thinks 
 it a great game and like a lot of the improvements like walls - town capture, impressiveness - 
 roads the list goes on, (also the wonders are FANTASTIC - annoying when used against you but skill 
 fantastic) nevertheless, it has it drawbacks which original B&W players will find out and perhaps 
 miss. My main quibbles are the amount of downsixing its undergone and how quickly the game can 
 be completed, But i would reccomend it it to anyone, because lets face it who wouldnt want to be 
 a god for, day or a week? or even eternity?
  
  Hope that helps :D! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed20916
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Great concept and a worthy successor to the original Black and White. However, its marred by numerous 
 bugs, insane system requirements (possibly due to unoptimized code) and a slew of system configurations 
 that the game simply "doesn't play well with". Even on the most modern hardware the game can stutter 
 and lock up for seconds at a time. The A. I. for your creature, while great, falls prey to a problem 
 that is getting disturbingly common these days : pathfinding. The armies that you can create are 
 somewhat smarter about getting from point A to B. On more than one occasion the creature will stand 
 around on one spot turning about while the enemy puts your armies to the buisness end of of a boot. 
 Clicked several times on the enemy, ordering the creature to attack but with no success. In the 
 end had to guide him around a couple of minor obstacles (a house and a tree) and then FINALLY managed 
 to get him to attack the enemy. This has happened far too many times to be just a fluke error. 
 Other than the pathfinding and seemingly picky hardware issues the game has, I like the concept 
 and really look forward to the day it recieves a patch to graduate it from what feels like a beta. 
 Could truly be great... someday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrummerJon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 28, 2005 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I have never Played B&W so this review is strictly on B&W2, not comparing it to the origional.
 
  
  When I first started B&W2 (after a week of technical difficulties (horrible costumer service) ) 
 I finally got to play. they quickly immerse you into the story line, which is okay, but you wont 
 care about it much.
  
  First choose your Creature. you can get a Chimp, a Lion, a Wolf, or a Cow (or Bull, i'm not sure, 
 no way to really tell) . I have not played with the Cow or wolf but I am assuming they all have 
 the same potential, its just a matter of preferance.
  
  Navigation-Navigation is hard to pick up, but once you get use to it you will be fine, make sure 
 you have a middle button.
  
  Graphics- I played on an ATI Radeon 9550 and maxed out the graphics (as much as possible) sadly 
 its not enough power to see individual blades of grass as seen in pictures, however it still looks 
 nice and I had no problems running the game smoothly.
  
  Sound- The voice acting is amazing. There is not a stale line in the entire game. However there 
 is an annoying "heartbeat" noise and when taking over a town that annoying click noise will get 
 to you. Other than that no complaints.
  
  Problems with the game- My biggest problem was the controls to be honest. once you get use to them 
 you love them, but untill then you will be very frustrated with them. Also there is not nearly 
 enough Tribute in the game. Tribute is a type of currency used to buy new cool buildings and Wonders, 
 which can do anything from turning an army into average joes, to creating a massive volcano which 
 litterally changes the landscape . you can complete hundreds of tasks and still not get all the 
 buildings you want, and some of the challenges are way more trouble then they are worth. for example 
 ripping out every single tree on the island for a mere 30000 tribute.
  
  Confusion- after playing twice i still dont know how to make my people less sleepy and less overworked, 
 i make it night time and they still get more sleepy. this is just an example of some elements of 
 the game that are unclear.
  
  Overal it is very addicted an a lot of fun, if they make a B&W3 I will be first in line to buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StangGT500
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 27, 2005 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a huge fan of the black and white series from the begining. The first game and 
 the expansion creature isle left me craving for more of this incredible and highly addictive game. 
 After awhile of waiting for another game to this amazing series i thought lionshead had given up 
 on the black and white franchise. But i was relieved to see an add in my Game Informer magazine 
 promotiong black and white 2. I reserved a copy on the spot. I was not dissapointed with this game. 
 It provided more than i could think of. I love commanding platoons and having Lord of the Rings 
 type battles on the walls of my citys with archers and my massive creature soldier. This game provides 
 a very high replay value because it provides you with so much freedom that it is never the same 
 twice. 
  
  Black and White 2 is a must buy game for any serious gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aaron0414
Rating: 1.8
Date: Oct 27, 2005 6:42 pm PT
Review:  
  This game requires an extreme amount of patience to play. You basically have to sit there, and 
 wait, and wait.
  
  I beat the game in less than a day. The reward? I get to start over.... um... no sandbox mode? 
 no nothing? This game flat out did not provide $50 worth of entertainment value. It has been a 
 long time since a game could not entertain me for more than 1 day.
  
  The opponents are dumb. You can literally sit back, and drop one fireball on their heads when they 
 attack. There is no rush, and no fear of having your town ransacked.
  
  There is no opposing god. How unfair is that? They attack me, I drop a fireball, they die instantly. 
 I attack them, they have to kill me the hard way with losses.
  
  If your creature gets knocked down, you just tell the creature to move, and he instantly gets right 
 back up. No creature fights should ever be lost because of this bug.
  
  Creatures get stuck everywhere. And the creature sometimes will just stand there getting pelted 
 by arrows trying to figure out how to path over to a rock which he will ultimately pick up, then 
 drop, yes drop, all the while losing 75% of his health. If pathing worked though, your creature 
 would never die, so I guess that is how they balanced it.
  
  Did I mention the game just starts you over? And drags you through the tutorials again? My god, 
 what were they thinking? Absolutely no replayability.
  
  The game also hangs my system every time I quit requiring a cold boot.
  
  Oh, and the pre-order 
 tiger is available to everyone thanks to their inadvertently making the file accessible to all. 
 I downloaded it without my number first, just to see if I could. I was rather annoyed that preordering 
 gave me no benefit.
  
  I just cannot understand why they would make a game not replayable. I mean why? It is not difficult 
 to program, it just doesnt make sense why they would place so many artificial limits on the gameplay. 
 
  
  It was fun to play for a couple hours, but it got old fast. I would bet it will be extremely cheap 
 once every sucker tries to offload this game on the pre-played market.
  
  Oh, and they sound ended up muted by the end of the game. It is fine, but they just never shut 
 up, and the music gets boring too.
  
  That is all I can think of. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deval
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 27, 2005 5:02 am PT
Review:  Black and white brought something fresh to the gaming community with the old "god game" style but 
 with the addition of a giant creature to play around with made the game a real hit and also created 
 a dedicated modding community, so when the sequel was announced it made alot of hype.
  
  I bought the collectors edition for the tiger as an extra creature since it was my favourite monster 
 and got right to playing. This time around you get to choose your creature and then start the tutorial 
 while your creature sleeps and your conscience (good and evil) tell you about the basics of being 
 God. which i think was a change for the better since you could just get your pet and then learn 
 the basics.
  
  The core of the game is broken up into several "lands" acting as levels each with a different tribe 
 of people ranging from the Greeks who you play as, to the Norse, Japanese and Aztecs your hated 
 enemies. The detail on these islands are amazing with the ability to zoom right into the heart 
 of your village and being able to see the expressions on your villagers faces to the grass blowing 
 in the wind, admittedly you need a good graphics card to see this detail, but even with a FX 5200 
 it still looks good. The creatures look amazing and the fur effects make them look that much more 
 real.
  
  Another new addition to the game is the buidling and Army management side. Now instead of a few 
 buildings to choose from you get a large selection of houses, baths, torture pits, creche's, wells 
 and head spikes depending on your alignment, but thats just a few of the many available. This makes 
 buidling your city a more tactical affair, since you may need to fend off attackers by building 
 walls around your city, so your building placement is always an issue. The army side is a good 
 addition as you can now duke it out with your enemies tribesmen or their creature if your willing 
 to sacrifice your men for the greater good. Unfortunately there are only two types of infantry 
 which are, swordsmen and archers, as well as a siege engine and thats your lot.
  
  Your creature can be trained differently now, as a list of "learnt" and "un-learnt" are there instead 
 of the leash being used to teach, you simply click and "un-learnt" and the game focuses on you 
 pet, you then simply pet or slap it to teach it that particular behaviour pattern. This can take 
 away some of the fun people had from the previous game, who enjoyed teaching it themselves using 
 the leashes. Your creature can also be set to attacker, builder, entertainer, or gatherer all of 
 which affect its actions the better it is the more likely it will be to succeed or do the task. 
 you can earn tribute to buy new levels of combat skill, buildings and miracles which is earned 
 by completing quests on each land.
  
  The miracles are improved greatly, no more wood miracle instead just drop a water miracle on a 
 group of trees and new ones will grow. The effects for these are all top notch, and the wonder 
 miracles can be devastating especially the volcano and earthquake miracles which can destroy an 
 enemy town in one blast.
  
  Unlike black and white though the game does lack the number of creatures 5 for this title and a 
 skirmish mode, this is found a little dissapointing as being able to just battle it out on a skirmish 
 map was always fun on BW1.
  
  Overall though some very nice level design, superb graphics and challenging missions make this 
 a must buy for fans and a good value title for new blood to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nittorulez
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 26, 2005 3:43 pm PT
Review:  yah best game in the world i have a sweet tiger creature 79% evil I HAVE THE HURRICANE WONDER yeah 
 yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeahyeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeahyeah yeah yeah yeah yeah 
 yeah yeah yeahyeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeahyeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeahyeah 
 yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeahyeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeahyeah yeah yeah yeah yeah 
 yeah yeah yeahyeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeahyeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeahyeah 
 yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeahyeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeahyeah yeah yeah yeah yeah 
 yeah yeah yeahyeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeahyeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeahyeah 
 yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeahyeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeahyeah yeah yeah yeah yeah 
 yeah yeah yeahyeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xosen_oni
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2005 4:53 am PT
Review:  Ok, I don't played the first Black & White, but this isn't an obstacle to play Black & White 2.
 
  
  The history line is totaly new, submerging you in a new history, you start as a nearly created 
 god, with the holy mission to support your people and save them from doom. Your first real mission 
 is to save your people from a powerful Aztec attack, but after all, this is a tutorial too.
  
  The first missions are just Tutorials, you learn how to move, pinch, rotate and some more things... 
 In the start, you may have a little dificult to get used to the controls... for example, to click 
 in the exactly location of objetcs, but the game is real easy to play, by just using your big and 
 powerful hand.
  
  The tool bar is the negative point of the game in my view. Its very complicated to work, and have 
 tons of buttons without description, that you must put the mouse over the button to read the description.
 
  
  Now for the graphics. Black & White 2 is a very beautiful game... even if you don't have a Godly 
 computer configuration, you still get much of the beauty of the game. You can pass your hand on 
 yours plantations, make the trees swing, and such things. An AMAZING and REVOLUTIONARY thing in 
 the game is the Interactive LIONHEAD Start Movie, where you can simply play with a big box full 
 of little boxes forming the Lionhead logos in the initial video. Summarizing, Black & White it 
 is a sufficiently pretty game and it will please to all its players.
  
  Now we go for the registered mark of Black & White the CREATURE! You can make it be bad, of be 
 good, It preferential will adapt itself to your way to govern the people! Reward him if he does 
 a good thing in your view, of bash him down if he do a bad thing in your view... by this way he 
 will learn what he must do and what he must not do. The creature can be used for many things... 
 crop platations, chop down trees, help build, to be a war machine or just to entertain your villagers. 
 They have wishes and you will can read them in a little ballon in his head.
  
  You can take down enemys by force or by impressing them... if your city are big and powerful, your 
 enemys or others neutral vilages will join your kingdom adding more citizens to you. Or you can 
 just go to war, breach their defences and take their town center and win the control of the people. 
 The units details are great and the wars are very frenetic and mortal. Use archers, warriors, catapults, 
 or speels to take down the enemy forces and overwhelms them.
  
  Black & White is a revolutionary game, and I can guarantee that it relieves many hours of good 
 game and fun... just go ahead! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xyriel
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 25, 2005 10:03 am PT
Review:  I really liked the original B&W. Peter Molineux has always been a designer that brought into gaming 
 originality and innovation. I have to admit my expectations were high when B&W 2 came out. 
  
  The new version is mostly an upgraded version of the old one. Graphics are better, sound is 
 better but it's mostly the same game. 
  
  One big difference is that you never fight another god. You're never faced with opposing miracles. 
 The only ones are provided from special buildings that fire once in a while. Also the opponents 
 never build new cities. The basic setup is you build and destroy (evil) / win over (good) already 
 built cities.
  
  I found that the AI was at times barely above a moth's behaviour. The CPU kept sending troops at 
 my doorstep (within my sphere of influence) where I would quickly dispatch them with a single fireball. 
 He didn't come back with ranged attacks, he just kept sending the same units over and over again. 
 At one point, I managed to block the half the map with walls. It seems I messed up the unit's pathing 
 because he simply stoppped attacking. Even the opposing creature stopped attacking. They all stayed 
 within their base.
  
  Last point is that there is only 7 islands (maps) in the single player campagn. I completed it 
 within 30 hours of gameplay. I don't think I got enough for my money.
  
  All in all, a big deception. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanky98
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 25, 2005 8:47 am PT
Review:  Ive been waiting for Black and White 2 since 2003 when I heard that a squeal for black and white 
 was being produced. I got the game and was instantly disappointed, though dont get me wrong its 
 a good game but not what I was expecting from all the talk and videos. The graphics are truly 
 amazing in my opinion but it doesnt make up for the game play. At first its great and has that 
 real wow effect as u play and you think yer this is great, then when u get to the latter levels 
 as many have said before me the game gets to slow and soon you loss interested in it as you build 
 the same things over and over again. Again Ill grant that the animations on the buildings are 
 quite funny and did keep me occupied a long time as well as following people thru there lives which 
 was quite fun but then you got back and the game play just came to a stand still as you wait for 
 either your population to grow to send another wave of attacks against the opposition or your city 
 to grow enough to impressive the cities and make them migrate. 
  The influence ring was another thing that annoyed me. Didnt grow as much as it did in the original 
 and the lack of space to act was a real pain. I did like virtual influence idea of its duration 
 being affected by the amount of people you had at the alter and that you could do anything any 
 were on the land once you had conquered it. 
  The creature was a definite improvement but I think I had a bug on my game as it wouldnt do what 
 I praised it for and did do what I told it not to which ended up with a lot of rocks eaten and 
 villagers pooped on which was quite funny but a nascence.
  The computers AI could have been a little more strategic and a little smarter but I didnt really 
 mind this so much as it was only really noticeable on one land.
  Thats most of what I think of the game and if I had more time I would write more but things to 
 do.
  All in all I gave the game a steady 7/10 as its still quite good Evan though it could have been 
 so much better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TombSpyder
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 24, 2005 11:24 am PT
Review:  First of all, let's get it out of the way, Black and White 2 is nowhere near as good as the original. 
 Don't misinterpret me, it is an excellent game in its own right, but somehow the purity of the 
 fun in the classic has become diluted with the second installment. Also, despite many new features 
 and alterations, if you loathed the first in the series, Black and White 2 is unlikely to convert 
 you. Now, let's get on with the review.
  
  Black and White 2 completely replaces the gameplay system of the original, in which you would start 
 with one town, and with the aid of miracles and your creature, go about impressing the other towns 
 with acts of godly might until they cast off the shackles of their previous belief system and joined 
 your cause. In Black and White two, you can choose to either accumulate impressive buildings in 
 your capital until the other towns are so in awe of your majesty that they migrate to your city, 
 or you can turn your capital into an industrial machine, in which you insert people and resources 
 to produce masses of soldiers who can go out and beat the hell out of all disbelievers. These gameplay 
 types, while interesting, grow gradually duller. The city-building element plays like a poor man's 
 SimCity, without the sophistication and complexities. Still, it's not bad fun, and, visually, your 
 city looks magnificent, glowing with energy and goodness. It's a little simple, but not too easy, 
 as you will have to worry constantly about invaders at the gates, due to your lack of armies. The 
 city building interface itself is a great little piece of design, doing away with vast menus to 
 navigate and replacing them with two simple interfaces, one built into the actual world. If you 
 already have a building of the type you want to build, just hold left click and drag off the current 
 building to select the foundation in your hand. Then, left click again to place it. It's simple, 
 and it works - in fact, it's one of the game's best innovations. If you don't have the building 
 in the game world already, there is a tiny menu at the bottom of the screen, literally minuscule, 
 from which you can select buildings. The simplicity of these two features adds to the city building 
 a lot, as they almost completely eradicate the feeling that all you're doing is swimming in a sea 
 of menus, and instead involves you in the world more. Then, rather than a building appearing fully 
 built, your villagers build it for you (this is a feature omitted in too many games) . However, 
 by the ninth land, you feel that you're just rebuilding the same buildings again and again. Once 
 you've completed the game as a good god, nurturing and building and keeping the big bad wolf outside 
 of the city walls, you're unlikely to want to play like this again.
  
  The other side of the strategic gameplay, warfare, is sadly less enjoyable. Lionhead are behind 
 the times when it comes to war. There are three different types of unit; your average infantry 
 soldiers, archers, and siege machines such as catapults. As the unit engages in more combat, it 
 grows in experience, and that experience causes it to fight better. Pretty basic stuff, and unfortunately, 
 it goes downhill from here. The combat, while visually very nice, is unsophisticated to the extreme, 
 with little evidence of any tactics required further than "have more men". While it is fairly entertaining, 
 is feels dumbed down, whether due to lack of funds, time, or an underestimation of the player's 
 intelligence. Also, because of poor AI, going evil makes the game far too easy. 
  
  The visuals in the game are breathtaking at times, with a powerful graphics engine that is able 
 to render the whole island, and then zoom in to the level of ants scurrying about beneath the grass 
 in under a second. The art side of the game is lovely to behold; based upon a theme of good or 
 evil, your buildings and the landscape morph to suit your alignment. The creature (more on him 
 later) looks adorable, and brims with visual personality. While the townspeople can be a little 
 blocky, and the framerate can get quite low at the higher resolutions, with a decent enough rig, 
 Black and White 2 looks, quite simply, better than almost anything else you're likely to play.
 
  
  The creature, then. One of the most lauded features of the original makes its return, and, quite 
 simply, it is the best part of the game. The creature is just as individual, surprising, and lifelike 
 as he was in the first game. One thing that Peter Molyneux and team have done very well in Black 
 and White 2 is making it easier to understand, and the same applies to the creature. On the popup 
 menu at the bottom of the screen, it will give you vital information about your creature, with 
 clear bars to show how good or evil he is. Also, the concept of free will has been introduced to 
 the creature in Black and White 2 - you can put him on leashes which will tell him to act in a 
 certain way, but his free will will suffer, and if you leave him on a leash for too long, he will 
 become a mindless automaton. Free will is also shown in a bar, next to your creature's alignment. 
 Previously, in the original Black and White, your creature would learn from his actions, and how 
 much you praised or punished him for them. Black and White 2 is the same, but with the addition 
 of thought bubbles for the creature showing what he's thinking. You then punish or reward him accordingly 
 for these thoughts, and he will develop as you wish. It's easy to do, it's easy to understand, 
 and it makes the creature that much more fun to work with.
  
  Miracles have been simplified a little compared to the original. Miracles are godly acts like fireballs, 
 heal spells and that sort of thing. Miracles require a substance called mana to be used, and this 
 mana is generated through your people worshipping you at an altar. This time around, there are 
 fewer miracles, but all of them are now useful, and something called the Epic Miracle has been 
 added. There are four Epic Miracles, and each requires a different structure to be built and worshipped 
 at. Epic miracles are things like volcanoes and earthquakes, and they are immensely destructive 
 in their power. A single triggering of an Epic Miracle can change the course of the level. All 
 miracles are good fun to use, are well implemented, and look and sound spectacular. They are another 
 highlight of the game.
  
  The audio in Black and White 2 is really something special, as all of the sounds and music are 
 triggered by your actions  zooming out a long way gets rid of all music and ambient sounds but 
 for the loud whistling of the wind, while zooming in to villager level is a cue to bring in the 
 gentle, atmospheric soundtrack and turn up the chatter noises. The audio in Black and White 2 is 
 excellent, as is the voice acting on the most part, and fans of the original may (or may not) be 
 delighted to hear the return of a troupe of singing quest-givers  while not the same characters, 
 they retain their bizarre charm. The odd bit of poor voice acting and one or two audio glitches 
 mar the overall sound, but it is great stuff, all the same.
  
  Physics in Black and White 2 are another of the games high points. In Black and White 2, almost 
 all objects have physics. This means you can pick up and throw virtually anything. While this doesnt 
 sound too spectacular, it really adds to the immersion, in a way that the gravity gun in Half-Life 
 2, however revolutionary and fun, didnt (it was a great feature, and well implemented, but the 
 fact that some objects were immune to physics reduced the immersion) . Also, when you throw a stone 
 at a wall, the wall doesnt just tumble down into rubble, it breaks realistically. The broken pieces 
 of wall can then be picked up and thrown, too. This feels very natural, and within an hour of breaking 
 bits of wall with other bits of wall, youll wonder why no one else did it before.
  
  In the end, Black and White 2, despite its many shortcomings, is a legitimately great game, and 
 should be played by any strategy game fan. Its gameplay, sadly, can be limited at times, theres 
 always something to bring you back, and the raw fun factor is still there. While its not as good 
 as many Black and White veterans had hoped, its good fun, and well worth a weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hungfar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2005 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Let me first state that I'm almost strictly an action gamer. But on occasion I'm willing to try 
 something that sounds a bit different than what I'm used to. Which is why B&W2 caught my eye. After 
 having not played hardly any games of this type I found myself drawn to this particular game because 
 of the god thing and the fact that it's a Lionhead game. The first several hours were ok but I 
 find myself having no desire to play it. Too much micromanagement for this reviewer. But if you 
 like that stuff, chances are you'll dig this very deep and polished game. Well, at least I thought 
 it was polished. A patch that rendered your saves useless was released within a WEEK. WTF! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samfoote
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 8:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is more fun than the first but it lacks multiplayer and has a very short singleplayer 
 campagin. Also the creatures are lacking in numbers with a total of only 5? WTF mate? It's certainly 
 fun and easyish to learn. But there are points of the game that I do not like. For example there 
 are a very small amount of units. And if the Black and white series is trying to head over to more 
 of an RTS style game they really have to work on that.
  
  The creature is still as fun as always but it still isn't flexible enough to be as fun as it could 
 be. It has some cool new leashes so it can have a different personality and there is really nothing 
 more satisfying than seeingyour giant cow beat up enemy platoons.
  
  All in all this game is fun and good for some laughs. But for four years of work you begin to wonder 
 whether or not lionhead studios is really doing their job as well as they could. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riandro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2005 2:02 pm PT
Review:  jaw dropping eye poppin !!! even better than the last!!!! i didnt think games could get this good 
 untill 2007!! the difficulty is hard ive got emit.. but its a challenge as all games are! ive only 
 played it for say.. 20 hours but its got me attached to it! 4 creature that u got to play are either 
 a cow (cute thing) lion (powerful soldier) wolf (cunning and eager to learn) ape ( adoring dancer 
 ) 
  the learning curve ive got to say is quite slow. about 20 to 45 mins. ive got to hand it to the 
 grapics though just when i saw my creature curled up and asleep just made me want to cry in adorment, 
 or evily laugh at enemy soldiers as the goARGH!!!*SPLAT*. when gamespot said it was "to be 
 announced" i thought great!!! but then to my dissapointment i was sat there for 1 year or so with 
 it being "to be announced" but when it did come out i was so pleased i jumped on the table and 
 started doing the macarana (a dance) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankjan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 23, 2005 10:58 am PT
Review:  I like the game very mutch.
  and I think I will play the game for a long time.
  the animals are very good and the way they life.
  The game will be a game who will write history, 
 because it's a game that now game is.
  The city of my game really grows and the people realy life.
  the army's are good, The enemy is 
 pretty smart.
  I will play the game for many weeks.
  I'm already playing with the monkey and he is getting better every minute.
  So it's a great game 
 who come's on the right time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: red-dead
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:42 am PT
Review:  The game is solid and fun to play, you can build army's or just do it the easy way and make a good 
 enough town so that peoples imegrate to you. When it comes to the graphics it the best you have 
 ever seen in a RTS build game befor but the down is the sound alot od the sound has been taken 
 for the origional game the first one. But when it all comes to and end black and white 2 is a Entertaning, 
 solid and amazingly fun game play so if you don't have it you should pick of your walllet and go 
 to wal mart or something! This is a game worth buying and worth waiting for etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradoo16
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 23, 2005 4:20 am PT
Review:  When i first set my hands on the keyboard to play this game i wasnt expecting it to be this good, 
 i couldnt believe how much detail the game goes into, just watching every move your villagers make, 
 what your animal you pick does and what it says to you.. every interaction is all very realistic 
 and effects the game in its own little way. i was wondering how much time they put into this game 
 to make us gamers happy, and for me it worked and i would reccomend it for anyone, for all ages 
 and anyone interested to get a game for their money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwarfism
Rating: 6.6
Date: Oct 22, 2005 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Both the sims and rome total war are great games, but playing god and leading an army through inspiration 
 and a giant pet who likes to crap on things doesn't really make a great game. Trying to babysit 
 a pet listen to a fat devil guy who rubs his chest often and an old annoying angel guy tell you 
 how to do things isn't hat great, you should have powers to burn people or revive them. The graphics 
 however, aren't too shabby though when turned up all the way and it can be fun for the first liek 
 hour. so who knows they could do good things iwth it but as it is not worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrenton
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 22, 2005 10:32 pm PT
Review:  When I heard that Lionhaed studios was makeing a sequel to black and white i was excited. And i 
 have to admit that it was worth the wait. But it did not live up to the great game I had wanted. 
 Dont get me wrong black and white 2 is a good game. The problem with this game is the stance at 
 which it takes. It stands as a god game like the first and a rts like starcraft. this gives it 
 a more mainstream audeince, but doesnt live up to people who liked first one.
  The games graphics are great. For the size and scope of the game they are awsome. One second you 
 make be looking at the entire island, the snow covered moutains, the blue sea, and the huge cities. 
 And witha flick of the mouse wheel you are looking at each indivdual blade of grass.
  All in all this game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrumskas
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 22, 2005 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This game, while beautiful, makes you, a god, powerless to fix all of the gameplay issues that 
 plague this game. The tasks and missions that the game gives you as a god are trivial and repetitive. 
 The game controls are sloppy and difficult. The villagers are impotent and stupid .. hey lets stand 
 here and do nothing while an enemy army destroys the town and kills us. This game is worth about 
 8 hours game play until its newness wears off then you can trash it. In terms of a strategy game, 
 you are far better off with Age Of Empires or Rome Total War. These give you significantly more 
 control over your word and combat. In terms of a empire building sim, this game is crap, though 
 most of what you do in this game is empire building. If you are really bored and 50 bucks comes 
 easy, then you might want to purchase this game. If you pick and chose only the best games, then 
 this game is not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zalle69
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 22, 2005 8:41 am PT
Review:  Not what I expected, if I had played a demo would not have bought the game. The game is too linear 
 for me I was hoping it would have had a random map to go with the campaign one. In my opinion the 
 games biggest problems were the times it took to save (3 minutes) to pause (35 seconds) and to 
 load (3 minutes) (yes my PC exceeds requirements) . Another problem is the use of the hand in the 
 game world was somewhat difficult to get right. Throwing rocks seems to be a hit and miss affair, 
 with either just picking up or trying to release it. Worst was when picking up people in large 
 groups, when setting them down almost every time after I set a few down the hand would then release 
 the rest in one shot throwing them even when I was close the ground generating evil. The city building 
 was though very good and completely random letting you do whatever you like while still contributing 
 to the whole city effect. The game is worth playing only once thats it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thigeic
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2005 12:33 am PT
Review:  A great game but its not something to play along time, but you can probebly easly pick it up again 
 in a few months and play it agian. Its still miss something that i can put my finger on. Its just 
 is something that dosent feel right.
  The Strategy aspect of it is pretty nice, but its very limited with units.
  Thay should put a 
 few more miracels in to it. But what thay have now is alright, but a few more could make it it 
 something to play longer with,
  and since there is no mulitplayer in it, it dosent live for that long.
  Story is okay, but could 
 been made better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalv
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Basically, its the same thing except this one introduced armies and sum buildings, which reminded 
 me of rome total war because the soldiers look like the same. They didn't add anything new to the 
 pets, which is probably the most important aspect of the whole game. You can either convince towns 
 to join your town by making your city better than theirs or you can just take it over by force 
 with an army. Not worth paying 40 dollars for this, buy the first one off the bargain bin if your 
 desperate to play this game.
  BAD
  BAD
  BAD
  BAD
  BAD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fattybombom
Rating: 3.8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 6:12 pm PT
Review:  MAN do I regret that this game is unstable and buggy as nothing else.. 
  
  the enemy runs straight throug concrete wall and you creature likes getting stuck and wonder how 
 did i end up here hmmm i like it here i'm never coming out..
  
  you play god... god start.. you have a pet the can preforme your will sweet..
  
  to sad it 
 does not work as well as i could..
  
  i liked the first game but figured nr 2 would be pushing it..
  unfortunately I was right..
 
  
  you get to play with armies an build greate citys.... 
  this has been done better by games like warcraft and more or les any other RTS you ever played 
 and liked..
  
  this is a good idea but a bad end product....
  
  hope others more enthusiastic than me can have a good time with it and don't suffer from the same 
 bugs as me..
  
  but i can tell you this.. if you are not sure then don't...
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 21, 2005 4:00 pm PT
Review:  This game i was very anxious for mabe a little to much so. I will admit i was expecting more out 
 of it, but in the long run it still is alot of fun and better the first one. The non linear element 
 has been lost a little bit but has a decent story. The visuals in thsi game are amazing, my jaw 
 hit the floor when i started playing this game. In the end i would have hope for the elements of 
 the first one added with the new stuff to be in the game. but still worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeorgeTopouria
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 25, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  I loved Black and White's originality and sense of abnormal gameplay, and I expected the sequel 
 to improve on those magnicifent factors, or at least not lose the arresting feel to it.
  But BW2 really went off the prequel's aspect and delievered some what new gameplay features, which 
 didn't really turn out that successful as planned and somewhat ruined the core the first game delievered 
 on it's point.
  Besides, BW2 has only a "Campaign" mode, no "Skirmish" or "MultiPlayer" can be found in the game, 
 and it certainly decreases chances of replaying the game.
  Morever, the game has horrible AI scripting - enemy plattons don't use tactics, they sometimes 
 gather near your walls and even though they are getting shot by archers on walls, they just stand 
 on same position while getting killed.
  The creature in the game is also very poorly composed, it's AI isn't good either and it's not the 
 fun caring for it like in the original.
  Something I was delighted with was the visuals, but it didn't cover the fact that BW2 was quite 
 a dissapointing experience for both fans and regulars.
  I believe LionHead could put more work and polishment into this during its 5 years of development, 
 and I now only hope that the upcoming simulator "The Movies" doesn't meet the same fate as this 
 game received. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dustinian
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 21, 2005 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game but once it came out I found it to be very dry. Lionhead studios 
 gave a speedy release when they should have spent more time developing the game and giving you 
 more choices. Black and White have given way to a mild Grey. 
  
  Evil:
  This can best be seen by trying to play evil. You CANT hurt your own people anymore. In the first 
 game you could throw them, burn them, zap them, and anything else your mind could think of. This 
 made evil a lot of fun because you could essentially do anything. Now your only goal is to make 
 more people a lot of people. And you just keep making them, there houses, and breeders to make 
 more of them. This makes the game very time consuming and very boring. 
  The final look of evil is also sorely lacking. A volcanic ash will spread out from your buildings 
 to try and give your land a darker, creepy, feel to it. The problem is the grass stays in place. 
 This makes it look awful. Volcanic fields of lush grass.. Need I say more? Your hand also doesnt 
 change much: a few long finger nails, blackened veins, and a darker skin tone, thats it. 
  
  Good:
  The game has a little more variety than the original for good. You can create a few 
 different types of houses and more decorative choices than you can with evil but ultimately all 
 you do as a god is build and spread: 10 houses here, 10 houses there, and a nice statue in the 
 middle. 
  
  War:
  If you are evil this is the only fun thing to do. Build and army and send them to conqueror. The 
 creators of the game have decided that war is evil. Sounds like Liberal bias to me. This makes 
 defending cumbersome because you can only defend inside your ring of influence. Outside fighting 
 is counted as evil points.
  
  Pet:
  The improved the pet system A LOT. This time around training, and caring for your pet is a lot 
 easier and you can assign him to do jobs by different colored leashes. I loved this change to the 
 game.
  
  Civilizations:
  This is very important because when I bought this game I was expecting to have a choice between 
 Nordic, Japanese, and Aztec. What happens though is you start as the defeated Greeks and remain 
 with the defeated Greeks until the end. Thats right: YOU DO NOT CHOOSE YOUR CIVILIZATION. Your 
 stuck with them, so if you dont like the Greek culture and Greek architecture, to bad.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homein_Sugo
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 21, 2005 7:19 am PT
Review:  Just like the other B&W, this game is the salvation boat for the lionheadstudios.
  This new game shows some improvements comparated whit the other but has the same style of playing.
 
  Is a perfect game to all entusiasts who don't have nothing to do on a rainy day and then just 
 want to spend some time building his dream town and conquer the neibhours whit is miracles or just 
 by the force whit the army.
  Once again whe have a pet (a monkey, a lion, a wolf, or a cow!!!) , who express the way how we rulle 
 the world.
  The game improves in the grafic aspect, needing a fine machine to run them at full throtle.
  
 It's a nice game to spend some time, but nothing more...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: strategy_god
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2005 11:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is great to while away a few hours. But it does start getting very samey towards the 
 end. Plopping down the same number of houses, baths etc. I was expecting a greater variety of buildings. 
 Where are the food markets, carpenters shops, civic buildings?
  
  And the creature kind of helps. But in the end, its only good for one thing... being a soldier! 
 You leave him tied up outside your wall, throw hom some food now and then and let him pummell your 
 enemies as they get near. I leave the gathering et al to the villagers!
  
  Was expecting a few more villager types also.
  
  Note to developers - please do not equate 
 difficulty with just throwing more enemies at you!
  
  Other than that, I dont mind parting with the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grkmafia69
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 20, 2005 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Shure you might have heard that this game might be repetative and its not as free spirited as you 
 think, but if you where given all powere you wanted it just wouldnt give ANY challeng to the game 
 and you would just destroy the enemy. The one reason i found this game great is the fact that its 
 has the battle capabilaty or rome total war, the build and make capabilaty of age of empires, and 
 it adds the little twist of interacting witht the world and do whatever the hell you want. leaving 
 out those little deatails that some people are complaining about in their reviews like your creature 
 beang more like a machine rather than a pet and enemy's being to neutral, i say this game is pretty 
 solid if you got a good computer (good graphix card) . so lets sum this up, you are god, you can 
 do whatever the hell you want, make massive armies, make the city of your dream and any other thing 
 you want, its up to you. So i say its worth the $50 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noggin510
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 20, 2005 1:53 pm PT
Review:  First of all I'd like to say that the graphics engine is superb with a capital S. You can zoom 
 in to see ants and blades of grass or zoom out to see the whole island and err... sea.
  Its Campaign is ok. Its very fun to play but once your evil, your citizens ignore your orders and 
 then its really hard to complete. When you complete the islands main objective (which is normally 
 "win the land" ) you have to build a new city on the next one but in his game building a new city 
 on the next island is a difference experience to the previous one. Because of the new buildings 
 you can research because of your tribute and the litlle quests that are there to gain tribute and 
 your creature has become more wiser so you can do different things with him. 
  The AI for your creature is amazing. In the end your creature will be a computerised version of 
 you (well almost) .
  Overall this game is good but lacks in other things than the campaign.
  My rating is 9.0 which i think suits it well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerLord
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2005 10:36 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately, Black and White 2 succeeds only partially in recreating its predecessors 
 magical realm. Dumb AI and many bugs makes it hard to enjoy our godly powers, but fortunately, 
 the graphics are there to save the day !
  
  Not only was Black and White 2 highly anticipated, but it was the sequel to the first game of the 
 genre. No wonder that the first episode took all of us by surprise and was tremendously refreshing 
 and revolutionary! Unfortunately, Black and White 2 only brought some upgrades to the genre, and 
 some of them clearly not polished enough.
  
  As you all probably know, BW2 lets you play as the God of the Norse Civilization, at the 
 blink of destruction by the hand of the powerful Aztecs. I can already say that the story of this 
 episode is a major improvement over the clich bad god versus good god story of the first episode. 
 You still get to pick your creature in this one too, and thanks to the folks at EA who forgot the 
 Tiger unlocker on their FTP, everybody gets to choose between the cow, ape, lion and tiger, providing 
 you downloaded the unlocker and unlocked it prior to starting your game. It will co-exist with 
 you, and learn from you. However, in trying to make the system simpler, they created many, many 
 flaws.
  
  First of all, you will now see a bubble above your creatures head to help you know what 
 he is thinking at the moment you pet or punish him. Pretty dumb idea this is exactly what 
 made it fun (for me, anyway) in the original BW. You ACTUALLY were teaching your creature, like 
 you child and raise a child. This is more like a stupid Tamagotchi that you program 
 with values. There is however now a better leash system which makes it easier to control the behavior 
 of the creature. Nonetheless, it still remains very dumb and could have been better. His appearance 
 still changes to match his alignment, but the size of the creature was significantly reduced. The 
 creature was huge and impressive in the first BW, and it was just so cool ! Now it has become no 
 bigger than a wall. Ive only been playing 40 hours or so, it might get bigger, but its 
 still a disappointment. Creature combat is also less fun. You could control the fight in the original 
 episode, clicking on the other creature and say where to hit him. Now its simply an attack 
 order that you send and you watch the fight. All-in-all, I believe they tried to make it simpler 
 for beginner players, maybe tried to reach a wider audience, but it totally ruined the creature 
 fun of the game.
  
  There is absolutely nothing for me to say about the graphics, if not that its pure eye-candy 
 ! Textures and details are really high-profile, and its just beautiful ! The folks at Lionhead 
 truly made a great job for this aspect of the game ! Kudos ! However, sound is not really at the 
 same level. Sure, music blends with the background, but it is all very repetitive, and very arcade-like. 
 It is not bad, but not perfect either.
  
  Last but not less important, the innovative gameplay. Players who will want to be a good God will 
 have the problem of a lifetime. The only way for you to be a good is to be very patient and basically, 
 well, do nothing. Fire miracles, ripping trees to use as resource, building the wrong buildings 
 at the wrong place, etc, will make you evil. I got a scorched hand without noticing in, in spite 
 my efforts to try and please the people. An Evil god on the other side is fun. Meteor showers, 
 torture pit, sacrifice and many, many other cruel games await you. Not only is it more fun, it 
 is much faster. There is now to way to win an island: through force, by capturing a city with an 
 army, or with Impressiveness, by building a huge metropolis. The first one can be achieved within 
 1 hour of gameplay in the island. By conquering cities, healing the armies and sending the creature 
 and the armies to the next city, rinse and repeat. It is very, very difficult to win an island 
 only with Impressiveness. You will get attacked very often, which means your only way of defense 
 if you dont want to get evil points is to place archers on walls and wait until the enemy 
 dies. Any miracles on your part to destroy the army will get you evil, and fast. Something also 
 very frustrating, you have to wait for villagers to build everything (you have the possibility 
 to do it yourself at the expense of resource, but you get evil points for doing so, by stealing 
 resources from storage) and harvest all resources themselves if you do not wish to get evil points. 
 After a few islands you will feel the repetitiveness of this game. Very much, in fact. So much, 
 that you might not even want to replay it again.
  
  As for bugs, there are plenty of them, and the recent 1.1 patch created more problems than it solved. 
 Furthermore, you can use your 1.0 saves ! Whats up with that folks? Even if the game took 
 four years to arrive on our shelves, it was heavily rushed in the final production cycle. Enemies 
 going through wall ? No thank you !
  
  Finally, BW2 still is fun and very entertaining. It is however by no way on the original BWs 
 level, in fact, much lower. You will probably enjoy it as long as the single player lasts, than 
 toss it away. Is it worth cashing out the 60$ ? Sure, if you buy it among a couple of friends and 
 share it when the persons done with the game. With no multiplayer, whats the point? 
 Great graphics, ok story, poor gameplay. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: apoena
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2005 8:55 am PT
Review:  After waiting so long for this game my expectative where a little high. My first bad impression 
 was the introduction movie. Its 90% the same that was in B&W 1. Despite of that, the new look 
 was amazing, superb graphics and spectacular sound.
  
  The game interface and other this is much easyer to use end the new godly elements make the game 
 more interesting. I havent seam wet, but I understood that the normal miracles have been reduced 
 in number and in power. In resume, the game is exactly the same that was in the first version, 
 but with a new looks and sounds.
  
  The creature is (thank God or Me Well, ok, LionHead then) much more intelligent. When you tech 
 him something he HEALLY learn it and you can forget about that and teach other things. And if you 
 change your mind lather on, you can go to a specific menu that shows EVERY taught lesson to your 
 Pet.
  
  The people are well, in my opinion the same thing with 10 more points in their IQ. And the last 
 and more important off all: the game is much faster. You can finish quests faster and efficiently 
 then before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoppyfrog
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 20, 2005 8:50 am PT
Review:  It was pretty awesome. Only problem is if you only play thrugh the game once your only gonna get 
 about seven to ten hours out of it. So unless your ready to play thrugh at least twice don't buy 
 just rent. But if your into just roasting up some villagers the the is prefect for you. A game 
 you'll be enjoying for months to come. But if you dont like "Simple" fun this is not your kind 
 of game. People new game games will love the simple inter face and easy but mostly fun gameplay! 
 The pet is very cool idea and a very good execution of the system. And be honest who dosent like 
 destroying entire towns with red hot magma from a fresh valcano. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nimbian
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 20, 2005 4:55 am PT
Review:  How can someone even say this is not a good game? I mean, it's not good. It's SUPERB! Not only 
 is it graphically exciting, no. It also combines a great sense of playability, such as godbuilding 
 (you can now build stuff yourself alone, though it needs more resources) , tribute (what you get 
 for completing quests, it is what you use to buy new buildings, miracles and other unique stuff) , 
 and the ability to know what your creature is thinking.
  But it's not perfect. Knowing what your creature thinks is great, and helps a lot now that you 
 can shape it to what you really want. But it also takes away the unpredictability of the first 
 Black & White. Also, the clicking around, which is greatly usefull and comfortable, also rips a 
 part of the original: the only-godly actions-can-do-stuff.
  Since I read all about that, I had really low expectactions about the game. Now, when I goy my 
 copy of it, I couldn't believe that even the bad stuff was well-done, and doesn't bug at all. For 
 instance, knowing what your creature thinks is a whole new way of playing it. As well as buying 
 new stuff. Now, you've got more flexibility in your path of Good or Evil. You can only get a certain 
 amount of tribute in the game. You can spend that tribute, for example, in a lightning miracle, 
 or torture pikes, OR, you can buy a Heal miracle or a Teddy Bear for your creature. And so on.
 
  I'll cut it off here. My last say: PLAY IT, THEN JUDGE! You wont regret it! It's worth every penny!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: apennismightier
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 20, 2005 1:10 am PT
Review:  Anticipating a much more in depth design and graphical improvement, Black and White fans got what 
 they wanted. Unfortunately, like most non strategy loving gamers, this game isn't bringing in many 
 new gamers to the genre with this one. I had a lot of problems with the controls in the first game 
 and found them to be poorly mapped and thought out.
  
  Much like the first one, the game is interesting for about the first half hour... then it's simply 
 doing the same thing over and over and over like the first one. Either building more towns, conquering 
 new towns... playing with your animal. The game is seriously great if you have TONS of time at 
 the office.
  
  Unfortunately borish and while the concept is undeniably original, it would have been more fun 
 to see a more action packed game with maybe some more Godly options other than throwing rocks and 
 moving people around.
  
  Also, since when do Gods have boundaries? This game should have been an all out complete do whatever 
 you want, however you want game... with harsher consequences for your actions. It would have also 
 attracted new fans to the series as well as cut back on the boring aspects of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wenzel91
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 19, 2005 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I didn't play the first Black & White but i heard good things, so as soon as i heard about the 
 sequel i was pretty excited. I couldn't wait to get my hands on it. Soon enough it came out, i 
 bought it on the third day of the release. Let me tell you it was well worth it. So many new features, 
 and a bundle of new ideas that i've never seen before in any game. I am most definately not dissapointed, 
 it is more than i could have hoped for. If you have the extra cash this is the game i would get. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twistted232
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2005 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I never got very far into the first Black and White, but the second one seems to be a little better 
 so far.
  
  Like I said above, make sure that you patch it to v1.1 before you get to far since the save games 
 aren't compatible once you patch.
  
  The graphics are very nice to look at, as is the sound, the initial turorial seems to go on forever. 
 I would have much preffered to get right into the game, and I haven't found that option yet (don't 
 know that there is one either) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dariune
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 4:07 am PT
Review:  i was one of the people who really enjoyed Black & White but found a lot lacking from it. Such 
 as the building which was so clumsy and almost an afterthought. The creature was quite hard to 
 understand but i didnt mind that. 
  
  I eagerly awaited the 2nd Black & White and got it as soon as it came out. 
  I had to endure 
 the tutorial which was a pain but because of my excitement i wasnt too bothered. I just hoped they 
 would bring out a patch to allow you to skip it when you restart. I chose the wolf as my creature 
 and away i went. 
  
  The 1st thing i noticed were the outstanding graphics. They really have outdone themselves visually. 
 i started turning my small villages into large cities with the easy to use and very satisfying 
 building interface. Then from there things just went down hill. The fact that i had to be evil 
 to take over another town started to irritate me but for the 1st few days i didnt mind because 
 i enjoyed building up my city. But after that few days the city building became repetative even 
 with the new buildings you can get from the new tribute system. 
  Which brings me to another huge dissapointment. The Tribute System. instead of gradually gaining 
 new things and more importantly teaching your creature new things you have a ridiculous tribute 
 system where when you earn enough Tribute (by doing silver scrolls or taking/impressing other villages) 
 you can buy either buildings or miricales for yourself or your creature. In my opinion this is 
 a masive step backwards. 
  The creature is another large letdown in the game. Gone are the immersive and humorous times of 
 teaching your creature to do what you want. Instead you have a list of commands with a positive 
 and negative slide bar. It feels like your programming a robot. It is still possible to get the 
 Creature to have a personality but a very stiff one and with out much work. He also doesnt seem 
 to grow to the same size as before and allin all is far less impressive despite the great graphics. 
 
  
  To summerise. 
  The Graphics are great 
  The building is great
  The creature is toned down and in my opinion almost pointless. 
  The tribute system is a disaster. 
 
  Playing as good is fun for about three days and then its boring. 
  Playing as evil is fun for about 5 days and then gets boring. 
  This is a simplified and toned 
 down version of the 1st one. 
  The game is a huge step backwards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calypso0807
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 19, 2005 3:22 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  1. Building is easier you don't have to create crates to build with, at your town centre the building 
 your people desires appear and all you have to do is grab it with your hand and place it to build. 
 You also construct roads which makes you city looks much impressive.
  2. You don't have to teach your creature every single thing to do, you have a task bar in which 
 you select all the things it does, like eat your people and then you smack him or rub (pat) him.
 
  3. Different spells don't come with different towns. In each level you play you receive tribute 
 with which you buy different spells for your creature, extra buildings, upgrade creature ext.
 
  4. As far as graphics game play sound and tilt consider it's great for me just as the previous 
 version.
  
  Cons:
  1. Well I can't really thing of something only that it takes a while before you actually start 
 enjoying the game because you start from scratch again. Learning your creature the basics and doing 
 all the tutorial stuff (moving tilting ext.) which you cant skip 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staticx416
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 19, 2005 1:39 am PT
Review:  My friends and I went out and boutgt this game the days after its release and by the hyped up reviews 
 were expecting a quality game. We were pretty disappointed when we started to constantly run into 
 problems. Our first problem occurred during install, we were constantly having to go back to disk 
 one and then back to disk two and the to three and back to two.... It finally installed and ran 
 great until we got in to the game which we discovered had no sound, so searched for an update for 
 the game and come to find the update is 100MB!!! This is three days after release!!!! What kind 
 of game is the developer shipping out if it needs 100MB worth of updates immediately? Lo and Behold 
 the update did fix the sound problem, and the game now runs great and I love it but be warned... you 
 might have to be patient with the game at first, but it is worth it in the end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onurta
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2005 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Cant decide about this game since the first one came out. There are pretty good ideas and lots 
 of creativity lying underneath, with good production values. It is very easy to say that, upon 
 your first installation of the game, you will be amazed with the originality and the amazing graphics. 
 But are all these enough to make up a good game? That depends. As it happened to me while playing 
 the first game, same thing happened playing B&W 2, that the game gets too repetitive after 2 or 
 3 missions, and you keep finding yourself stared at the beautiful environment, sometimes with sleepy 
 eyes.
  
  To see a really creative, original game, this should be tried, but not much depth should be expected.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Source
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 10:29 pm PT
Review:  With all the hype for this game it fails to deliver. Sure the graphics are sharp. It's amazing 
 detail from a fully zoomed out view, to the extreme close ups of your followers faces should make 
 Lionhead proud. This range of graphical achievement makes the game truly feel like you are a God.
 
  Though the novelty of godhood sorta runs out there.
  The music is quite nice, but overall the sound is not all that great. An good soundcard with a 
 great surround setup goes to waste. It's not bad, but if they pumped in as much effort into the 
 sound as the graphics, well we'd have two things to be blown away about. There is just no depth 
 to the sounds in the game, they seem flat while you are navigating a 3D world.
  The story, well... all the money must have gone into the visuals. Win over or conquer this race, 
 again and again and again. Convert or force them to your side to stop the evil Aztecs. That's about 
 the limit of it. Sure the silver and bronze scrolls add a little extra depth, but nothing to write 
 home about. Tossing a barrel from island to island doesn't flesh out the plot all that much.
  The sound and the story could have been complete overlooked with the raising of your creature. 
 Here is where the first game shined and the second game fails to deliver.
  Instead of taking your baby character and letting him learn from watching you, all the screw ups 
 included, you have a meter to tell your creature what to and not to do. A little bubble comes up 
 over the creatures head and tells you what he is think or planning to do. Then you stroke or slap 
 your creature to change his mind. When you do this a little slide bar comes up that you move by 
 continuing to stroke or slap him. Translating into always do this or never do this, with sometimes 
 in between. The first one left you guessing, and wasn't always black and white setting for your 
 creature.
  It is now more like programming you creature than training him. You can set most of his 'preferences' 
 in the first level of the game. You can also change any preference anytime in the game via the 
 menu. You can select the action and change the creatures attitude on the fly. Add to this that 
 miracles and abilities (like being better at war or building) are bought with your ever so tight 
 budget of influence (which is your god currency) , takes all the training fun out of your creature. 
 Because of this is just seems like a larger unit capable of a few more things. You can just let 
 him run around and build stuff or gather resources.
  The other disappointment is the size of the creature. In the first one he could be huge, this adding 
 to the overall feeling of your power and godliness. In the second one he gets a little bigger than 
 a house.
  The final let down was the unit combat. There is no real strategy here. Just build lots of units 
 and attack, or create a few and use your attack miracles and creature to destroy the enemy. It 
 all comes down to who has more units.
  If you like building the same stuff over and over again, then you attention will be snapped up 
 by this game. I spent more time building than anything else. I'll leave building games up to the 
 likes of SIMCITY 4, where it has more depth and fun in that genre.
  In the end it was a nice game to look at, but halfway through I was just praying it would end.
 
  
  -Darksource 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalienteBurito
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 18, 2005 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE THIS GAME!!! Ok... got that out of the way. The first black and white is one of my all time 
 favorites. The premise for this series is one of a kind and exceedingly fun. 
  
  Ok now to the review... while I am playing this game I feel wrapped up in it. It brings to the 
 table what I believe a good game should in its addictive game play, easy controls, and the satisfying 
 result. I have played trhough being good and evil and both work very well. When your good your 
 city looks amazing with hanging gardens everywhere and everything looking well.. good! And when 
 your bad the city looks well... BAD and it fits very well with how you act. Things like that are 
 what makes this game one of the best. When all is said and done you need to get this game. It is 
 simply put... AMAZING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartlidgenator
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 18, 2005 6:01 pm PT
Review:  black and white 2 may not be the best game but it certinatly has its moments. come on, throwing 
 fire on your own people if they annoy you. Implanting a volcanoe right in th middle of and enemies 
 base. this game is a pure classic. However cheese is delicous and good so i makes this game worth 
 it. HOWEVER this game does lack some AI that would be most appreciated. Also some of the gameplay 
 is quite there so that makes it a little of center. But its all worth it to the countless hours 
 you will spend playing it. so in short it is definatly worth your penny or pennies, dollars, or 
 doll hairs, pigskin, dough, moola, the goods, whatever. BUY NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_b1ues
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing but it wasnt all good when i bought the game what alot of people have realised 
 about the game is it so good, that you need a really amazing graphics card to play it. But onces 
 u get that sorted this game is really good. The Fighters between the creatures are just amazing 
 they have a lot more free will and the added armys are also good. But the only down fall is the 
 is more stucture so cant do what you ever u like as much as the the first game. This also causes 
 the game to be quite short. Also there is no muliplayer or skirmish games, but there is rumour 
 of a disk that will include both of thiese all in all a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Shooter
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 2:42 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is amazing but there are just to many screwups that drop the score down. First 
 off after you get two levels in the game starts to crash every half hour or so which gets really 
 annoying. It happens so much and if a game is properly beta tested than why does it have such an 
 obvious bug. This happens to me 3 times a day. Next the creature and the entire civilizations behavior 
 has been turned into a series of on and off switches. You tell the creature not to do something 
 once and he never does it again. in complete contrast to what the creature in the origional did 
 where his habits seemed to be on a realistic learning curve. 
  
  I know that I am supposed to be a god and everything but when I can take down the enemies entire 
 army with my hand and not lose anything from it something is wrong. 
  
  Finally I despise Lionhead studios for giving us all of these problems and than having the gaul 
 to make the multiplayer version come seperately. I just hope for there sake the multiplayer game 
 has a skirmish mode for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornescuandrei
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 22, 2005 3:23 am PT
Review:  Hallo everybody my name is Andrei and I am from Romania. I have been waiting for this game since 
 2001 and now the game is here. Black & White and his expansion pack Black & White Creature Island 
 have been wonderful games.
  In Black & White 2 is very different from his predecessors. You now have more powerful miracles, 
 you can now create huge armies that can crush your opponents army and many more things but I was 
 disappointed about 1 thing that in the game you cant skip the tutorial this was also annoying 
 in the first Black & White. But after all this is one of the best games I have ever played.
  If you observe any mistake or if you want to ask any quastion about the game please ask me at cornescuandrei@yahoo. com 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fexxe
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 18, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  First of this game is the best I've ever played!
  It combinds so many gameing types together, RPG, god game, and simulator.
  If some of you guys 
 have ever played Black & White 1, you will love this game. The graphis has been emproved soo much.
 
  You maby thinking; "if the game graphis has been emproved so much, you will need a fairly good 
 pc!" - but no you don't! This game runs on many "bad" machines!
  The sound is great to! you really get the epic feeling of war when you take half your population 
 to war against another gigantic army!
  Also if you are peaceful then the music will change to that!
  
  Even though that there's no 
 skirmish or multiplayer in this game (YET)
  it really brakes the border of stradegi games.
  Lionhead Studios will soon releash a patch or expansion pack with the multiplayer and skirmish 
 in it!
  
  There's just so many things to say about this game. All I can say is buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iridius
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 17, 2005 10:46 pm PT
Review:  First of all, let me caveat this article by saying that I did like this game. And while worthy 
 of my time, I just don't feel like it was quite worth the money...
  The Black and White franchise has, since its debut, has remained a favorite of mine. Not exactly 
 a genre-defining title, there are many aspects of the series that defy a single gaming category. 
 Much in the same vein as the Age of Empires series, Black and White requires much more of the player 
 than a simple RTS. However, Black and White differentiates itself from other titles with a host 
 of subplots, a pseudo-Warcraft 3 hero mechanism (the creature) , and a set of in-game commentators 
 that provide some amount of comic relief.
  Black and White 2 takes these concepts and improves upon them and their mechanics, adds a few spiffy 
 new features and challenges, and, on the whole, manages to redefine the original quite well. This, 
 however, is a part of this sequel's downside; there is virtually no difference between it and its 
 predecessor.
  This most recent incarnation of the series fixes many of the problems associated with the original: 
 the weak plot; the poorly designed creature management system; the clever yet annoying menu system 
 set in 3-space to name a few. Additionally, the graphics are quite spectacular for the genre, especially 
 in light of the original (bearing in mind how old the original is, of course) . And though some 
 of the sounds could use some work (namely, repetitive lines or sounds pulled from the original) , 
 most were nicely done and appropriately placed to enhance the game.
  However, it should be reiterated at this point that the game is extraordinarily similar to its 
 namesake. In fact, overarching mechanic is identical. There is increased complexity in town building. 
 For example, there are more buildings and some even carry with them consequences, the most obvious 
 example being the torture pit. As one might infer from its name, the torture pit is a generally 
 evil structure and carries with it the consequences of being evil. There are more subtle examples, 
 however, and they need to be addressed. For example, building the tavern next to certain types 
 of buildings will actually decrease productivity. It is important to note that this was discovered 
 not by any noticeable change in game play but by actually reading about it in the manual. While 
 this proved to be an interesting concept in principle, as I stated earlier, this ended having virtually 
 no noticeable effect, even after I became fully cognizant of its being.
  Despite the fact that this is essentially a redo of the original, a "whoops, we could do better," 
 if you will, it is still extremely fun. I was motivated the entire time to continue playing it 
 until it was finished. Much to my chagrin, that was quite soon. I had the game for less than a 
 week before it was conquered. And allow me to put this into perspective for you. I am a senior 
 aerospace engineering major at Georgia Tech. I don't have a lot of time for games. I put about 
 1 to 2 hours per evening into play time for this game. That is not a lot of play time for $50 +/- 
 tax. Admittedly, I feel stupid having paid that much for this little. But, in my defense, I assumed 
 that there would be some replay value, if nothing else.
  This brings up my final point before I close. There is no multiplayer. There is no selectable difficulty 
 adjustment. There is no chance of playing as a race other than the Greeks. There is virtually no 
 replay value. It could be argued that you could play it as an evil god once and a good god on the 
 second go-round. Granted, however this brings the total playing time from about 12 hours to somewhere 
 in the 20-22 hour range. Also, it has been argued that it is fun to simply mess with your people... throw 
 them, toss rocks around, etc. I suppose this is fun in the same way that it is fun to ride around 
 in GTA running over people. Don't misunderstand; I enjoy a good drive down the sidewalk as much 
 as the next guy. But if you want to play a game of senseless killing, then just play GTA for the 
 love of God (no pun intended, of course) !
  So, what is my The Verdict? If you were a die-hard fan of the original, pick up a copy and see 
 how the game was really meant to be played from the start. If you're a flavor-of-the-month gamer, 
 I wouldn't bother with it unless a friend is willing to let your borrow their copy. Don't get me 
 wrong, it is a good play. But given its length and almost total lack of replay value, it is probably 
 not worth it for most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TEN10X
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 17, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Black and White 2 is an awesome game. Well thought, well done, good graphics, and immersive gameplay.
 
  
  It combines the original Black and White with strategy games such as: Age of Empires etc... Your 
 Creature is easier to control and teach, and your villagers are more self sufficient. 
  
  The story is more in depth, yet as many people say, it does sacrifice some of the the freedom of 
 the original.
  
  All in all, I recommend this game to anybody who likes statagy, or the original Black and White. 
 
  
  Once you beat the game you then have unlimited options for freestyle gameplay.
  
  Trevor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_nitsud
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 17, 2005 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Black and white 2 is everything that you wanted out of Black and White, but didn't get. When the 
 game boots up you obviously see the graphic improvement over the first installment of the series. 
 The first island acts a typical tutorial stage where you get familiar with the controls of the 
 game. Once done with that, you get to the real meat of the game. The main focus on the temple and 
 totem are all gone. There's a huge RTS feel in this title that just wasn't there the first time. 
 Everything is much more organized this time around. Instead of having the workshop where you gather 
 wood to make cratelike object that acts as blueprints of the building you wish to build, and then 
 having to gather more wood and wait for your people to build, you now can simply select the blueprint 
 from a nice toolbar available during gameplay or from the town center (where the desired building 
 of the people will appear) , and place where ever you please (you can now also build roads, with 
 which your building will line-up with perfectly) , and pick-up wood and build the buildings yourself 
 with the new god build feature. No more totem! You can now build an altar where you can make disciples 
 of worship that won't just worship and die like the neglected worshippers from B&W. Your creature 
 is also much more intellegent then before. Thoughts of your creature will appear above his head 
 at any time your creature wish to do anything, you can select him (much like the first B&W) and 
 now a gauge will appear above his head along with the original thought, where you can now beat 
 him or pet him and the gauge will go up or down (i. e. - "Those villiagers look tasty."; once selected 
 "I eat villiagers sometimes", which could become often or always, or never depending on your beating 
 or petting) .
  Now I know if anyone is like myself, then the third island from B&W was rediculously difficult. 
 This was the island where you were on the top of mountain and your creature was in bondage by the 
 dominate god of the island. Well in B&W to get influence over a village that didn't believe in 
 you, you had three options: do miricales, make disciple evagelists, or send your ceature their 
 way. Well when you had no creature and the closest village was far away from your influence ring, 
 this all become very difficult. Now people will simply leave their village and come to yours if 
 it impressive enough, OR you can make a huge army and conquer their village. NICE!
  I hope this review will help you in your decision of B&W2. I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kid-poker1973
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 17, 2005 1:58 pm PT
Review:  What did I like most about B&W 2? I enjoyed the graphics and for the most part the voice work was 
 good save the tutorial.... the conscience voices got to be grating.... especially the devil character. 
 I love the ambient sound but that voice .... fingernails down the chalkboard after the first hour.
 
  
  I wasn't to pleased about the fact that you couldn't skip the tutorial. You just had to sit and 
 endure annoying jibber jabber in a bothersome voice.... but not to dwell on the negative.
  
  The concept is a lot of fun. The playablilty is alright. its not as tight as ooooh say... SIMS 2, 
 but good enough for a non-novice player. I say this because the control was completely backwards 
 from every other strategy game I've ever played before, and I my girlfriend played for about 15 
 minutes and shut it off because she was struggling with the movement. (novice gamer)
  
  To wind this up... I hope that when they make a 3rd installment of this game they do at least 3 
 things to improve it...1) Pick more neutral voices that you can tolerate for long periods. 2) Offer 
 more creature choices... heck get crazy... I'm a God right? why can't I create my own? 3) Include 
 a quick reference cheat sheet to the keyboard commands. There are a large number of shortcuts one 
 can pickup throughout the game... having this info as you learn would parlay alot of frustration 
 in the tender early stages of the learning curve.
  
  But that's just me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cr1ms0njyhad
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 16, 2005 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Having played the original Black & White extensively when it came out, I was eagerly anticipating 
 this sequel. The graphics engine is certainly more advanced, and the background music enhances 
 without entering the realm of annoyance. However anyone looking for 'new and unique' will not find 
 that here. Within 5 minutes of playing this game I was filled with a warm feeling of nostalgia, 
 which then quickly wore off as the targetting interface became more and more annoying. 'God building' 
 quickly becomes a trial in patience, especially in trying to rush the construction of a crucial 
 section of wall. After the fifth time of dropping a pile of ore onto the ground instead of speeding 
 up the construction of said wall, one quickly wants to THROW the mouse across the room.
  
  All that being said, if you have a few days to kill (and some spare monkey lying around) , and you 
 like a 'god' game with a splash of humor and at least some strategic requirements, then go ahead 
 and get this game. It will keep you entertained, with a mix of pleasure and frustration, for a 
 good 15-20 hours worth of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntersq
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 16, 2005 1:40 pm PT
Review:  BnW2 is a good game... that is if you can get it working. As I write this, thousands of BnW2 players 
 are flocking to the Lionhead webpage technical support forum asking what is wrong with their game. 
 The main reason for this is because of the bug problemS. The capital S stands for the shear numbers 
 of bugs that are in the game. 
  
  But what is most critical to BnW2's downfall isn't because of its gameplay, or the big list of 
 bugs, but for its lack of support. BnW2 is sponsored by Pentium 4 EE, and made for best performance 
 for P4 EE. This then means that anyone who owns a Athlon 64 processor (which is around half of 
 the gaming world) has a tremendously hard time getting the game to work smoothly, even if they 
 have the buffest computer around. Shame on you Molyneux, Shame!
  
  But aside from the functionality of the game, there are some faults in the game itself. 
  
 
  So what is essentially improved from bnw1? 
  - most noticeably, the graphics. based on the screenshots, yes it looks beautiful, but try telling 
 that to any athlon 64 users.
  - the tactics to go to war, this is molyneux's "epic" war game supposedly. but in comparison to 
 other strategy games, it should only be considered as average.
  
  And that's it, that's all the improvements there is, anything else in the game had either stayed 
 the same or dumbed down. 
  - the creature ai now have thought ballons which lets you know exactly what it's thinking, and 
 now have a "yes/no" options to his every motivation. this actually made the creature feel more 
 mechanic rather than organic like in the first bnw
  - the city building now is essentially simcity... nuff said
  - no skirmish play
  - no mulitplayer
 
  
  how can any game be made now with out those two elements of skirmish and mulitplayer? how can any 
 developer do that? even if it is going to be released in an "expansion pack" it is not acceptable. 
 Skirmish and multiplayer should not be additions to the game, it should be PART OF THE GAME. Unless 
 they offer this so-called expansion pack for free to download online, i will lose faith in molyneux's 
 work forever
  
  Essentially at the end, the cons out weigh the pros of this game, and i have to give it a 6.7/10 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ofekjosef
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 16, 2005 1:30 pm PT
Review:  this game is so damn good. i like act as god to fix, rule & destroy islends when you just cant 
 get a small vill you can just kill all of them or make your "pet" do it for you.
  or you will make your own "vill" and make them warship you.
  you can do magics and mircles or 
 doom the world.
  i like the way you can teach your animal ("pet") how to fight with STYLE.
  i really like the firt game and the expentions packs and ill but the game soon as i can.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masterthe2nd
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2005 11:23 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. 
  probably one of the best games of the year, it's a must buy game.
  The graphics are amazing, you can see every blade of grass, all the fur/hair on you creature, reflections 
 in the water, the expressions on the villagers face's and even little ants in the fields!
  it's a must buy game for all you gaming fans.
  the only thing missing is multiplayer which i 
 hope will arrive in an add-on in the future.
  it is also a little buggy but this is being fixed in patch's released by the developers.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seneardon
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 16, 2005 11:05 am PT
Review:  This is what i get for listening to a Gamestop employee half my age trying to make his quota. The 
 same game I played years ago... Shame, shame on me for even going to the mall. The new building 
 options are fun for 20 minutes or so, but then the game devolves into the same old tried and true 
 RTS or City builder conventions. At what point in space/time did the two genres this game lifts 
 from, RTS and City builders, go from inovating to rehashing. The Beats of Rage homebrew beatem 
 up project tastes like freshbaked muffins compaired to this musty old loaf. 
  
  Someday somebody will re-imagine this type of game past its populous roots. Adding a pokemon like 
 beastie to play with is not such a redefinition. Building and re building cities under increasingly 
 unfriendly initial conditions does not constitute a challenge or even a change from one stage to 
 another. Its an excersise of watching the frog (me) sit in the pot as the lameness heat is turned 
 up. Eventually I jump out and say screw this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sreamer14ydr
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 16, 2005 9:23 am PT
Review:  This game I have to admit is alot better than Black and White. In the first one, it just was so 
 hard, i didn't understand it what so ever. When i first bought this game, I was a bit skeptical... 
 but as i played it, it was much easier to learn to play. This game is all about strategy and will 
 test your skills in a 3D game, and you have to be quick and such. This game has some elements of 
 Sim city 4, building a city with roads, and houses etc... and also it has the sims elements of 
 feeding your people, keeping them happy. So this game has alot of different attributes from different 
 games. 
  
  Presentation: This game when you unwrap it out of its box, gives you a nice detailed instructional 
 manual that tells you ALOT of what you need to know for the game. The instalation was flawless 
 on my pc... and it didnt take long, nor did patching it.
  
  Gameplay: When you first start the game, it tells you about the controls , which is a great feature, 
 the very first black and white, didnt have as well through controls as in this game. It teaches 
 you every single control needed from rotating, pitching, zooming, moving around. It has arrows 
 and all. There are many levels in this game, and I seem to like the level design. You get plenty 
 of lands, and challenges to go through the game as well. THe promblem i have with the game is that 
 the creature, even though it nicely desgined, isnt as well i liked in the game. Sure its nice to 
 have, but sometimes he gets in the way of what your doing, or is too slow. Even though this game 
 is nicely presented, and nicely played, and its very stable. 
  
  Sound/Graphics*: This game has alot of detailed enviorments in it. The 3D design is Absoulutly 
 beautiful, even coming up to almost the best looking game out there. The waterfalls, trees, sun, 
 water effects are amazing. The creature has fur/hair, and you can see even each blade of grass. 
 The fire effects are amazing as seen in land 2 with the aztecs. This game is pure EYE CANDY all 
 the way through. The only promblem is, if you dont have a good system it might lag a bit. The sound 
 is amazing to, you can hear water , birds, people, and music. I can even hear the subtle words 
 as birth being heared as im rushing into war. its a great game. 
  
  Ending Appeal: this game will amaze you visually, and as a whole a good game. You get alot of lands 
 to do, many challenges from easy to hard, creatures, miracles, building stuff, to destroying. You 
 get to take care of ur people, like in the sims, build a city like in sim city, and you get all 
 the stuff from black and white, and than some, very improved and very polished. With no Multi-player 
 in it though is kinda sad, but who needs it really... you get a awesome single player expierence. 
 The only thing i would like to see is maybe a add-on, for multiplayer, with you battling on a land 
 with your god and another players god or maybe a huge land with 8 player gods from around the world 
 duking it out. Oh well single player is good enough. 
  
  *My reccommended Video card: Nvidia Geforce 6800 or up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonebutone_4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 9:19 am PT
Review:  Ok, ive played all the Black and white games so far that have been released, I liked the original, 
 i liked Creature isle, and i like Black and white 2. But it does have its flaws. I have yet to 
 complete the story, but i have gotten stuck several times... mostly when ore is involved... 
  
  The Game is still great but i feel as if they took some things away, your creature is now limited 
 to a tiny scale (mines barly taller than the basic wall and im on the second last land) . Where you 
 build also seems to complicate things, you really have to create paths through your city for your 
 creature to follow, or he just stands there thinking "I cant Do that" which is a annoyance.
  
  I do like the control you have over your creature now, how it has in some ways allows you to 
 posses it as a god, and order it around, likewise with the armies. But i find the enemy AI to be 
 horrible at this. at one point i traped a enemy creaure behind a wall by closing the gates... it 
 just stould there, not attacking not moving for nearly half an hour before starting to gather for 
 my side, and dance with my worshipers... which i had to stop with a good Thrashing from my creature.
 
  
  Enemy Ai is even worse with Battle, they will send a unit of swordsmen at you... and they will 
 just sit there, waiting for you to open the gate... even if there is archers on top of the walls 
 shotting maddly and laughing. 
  
  So the Games has its ups and its downs, im still playing it... i would play it longer if there 
 was a skirmish mode... or some way not to follow the campaign, but as of yet... the Aztecs still 
 need to be crushed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 053570347
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  this game is amazing but a little on the short side
  from what i have done i haven't any bad glitches. the gameplay is awsome wether your good or evil. 
 i was absolutly stunned at the graphics cuz there amazing. the sound is very clear with the voice 
 overs and the music and especially sound effects from people and moving things around. i got my 
 moneys worth and spent hours playing the game. the difficulty of the game varies. the overall story 
 line part of it is not to hard but some of the special siver scrolls can get tough. it is highly 
 adictive just building huge towns although its hard to keep your town under control once you have 
 a huge town. very easy to get the hang of so you don't get frustraded and i thought the controls 
 were good to. (good thing the didn't put it on a ps2 or something) .
  
  my only wish is that the new patches comming out add creatures like in B&W. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: original_figjam
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 16, 2005 5:42 am PT
Review:  Black and white 2 is a great game and there is no doubt in that. the probolem with it is that it 
 has relied too much with being a black and white. it is too similar to the original which got some 
 good reviews due to being a revolution of a game with ideas never before used,
  Some of the gameplay is great, the new buildings and the use of tribute is a nice touch wich allows 
 you to have new buildings on each level through the game. tribute can also be used to buy mirracles 
 for you and your creature. the ability to pick up many things like your hand is a vacume cleaner. 
 and allows you to advance your creature in certain areas. unfortunately the levels are one major 
 probolem with the game. there are only eight maps. one of them is pure tutorial and the second 
 one is 50 50 tutorial game as you do get to play but what you do is basic for example the quests 
 that you have to complete are build 2 farms or make 5 breeders. all things that are useful buy 
 very tireing and boaring. especially if you played the original.
  the A. I is another thing that the game should call into question. the A. I seems to consist of building 
 buildings in set locations so even if you replay the map the bases looks the same despite starting 
 from only a town center and the armies that attack you either sit back on a wall in set positions 
 which generally means they wont replenish or be reinforced. come to a set position which is close 
 to your wall if you build a strait wall in a line from where they give you a starting wall piece 
 and wait for you to open your gates when they will attempt to run in. not only is this ai basic 
 but also gets very easy when if you build a curvy wall and buy some archers the enemy squads will 
 stop close to your walls and stay there being shot by archers unless you open your gates. there 
 is also some set sequiences with the ai like when you build your first army or leave your spawn 
 area for the first time they will send a small army to assault you or there may be a catapult with 
 a group of men . occasionly there will be a pratrolling force around 150 strong that will replenish 
 unless you completely destroy it but usually, the maps can be all but won by sending your creature 
 to a wall, he kills 10 people before he dies, you then repeat when he resporns and you get through 
 the wall. the creature A. I is great however but it seems that there is none for the Soldiers at 
 all which gives the game very little replay value and can make it repetative.
  another annoying thing is that you can only play as the greeks. i knew the campain would be greek 
 focused but i though there would be something else in there too.
  the graphix and animations are incredible. people walk around and in the buildings you build and 
 for example people will practice archery if you build an archery range if they have nothing else 
 to do. stationary groups of men make camp fires and fight each other improving skill.
  i have a low spec pc, it has 1.8ghz processor, 512 ram and a 128mb radeon 9200se. Which is pretty 
 much as low as the game allows however I still have great visuals for all but the land and if you 
 have more than 512 ram I am sure you could put the vegetation on and have a great looking frame 
 rate free game. Draw distance also suffers but if you can get your hands on 1gig of ram then it 
 will be plain sailing, saying that you still would have most of the options on low.
  All in all the game is good but bearing in mind it took 5+ years to make a bit of AI and an option 
 other than the campaign i. e. some skirmishes or random map battles would have been a great touch, 
 online play is also a missing feature.
  The game is pretty good but unless your sure I borrow it or buy it off a sight like game. co. uk 
 which allows you to return it with free postage back if there is a problem.
  I am hoping an expansion pack will come out or some online downloads that unlock all factions and 
 get some AI in there too however. If a map editor comes out allowing you to make and play other 
 peoples campaigns or if someone makes a mod with new maps and campaigns it could keep the game 
 going.
  
  Difficulty
  My base was never threatened to the extent of having to fight inside its walls till the 2nd last 
 map. Very easy for the first 5 maps.
  
  Learning curve
  Work out the toolbar and its plain sailing
  
  Gameplay
  Very fun but RTS elements are too 
 basic for both you and the AI
  
  Graphics
  If your pc can support it incredible, if yours like mine isn't that good then they are still very 
 cool with some great animations.
  
  Sound
  All affects from war calls to the miracles are great
  
  Value
  Good game but depending on 
 whether or not new content becomes available you could only get 25hrs out of it +if you can take 
 it a redo which is still fun but especially at the beginning tedious
  
  Reviewers tilt
  Defiantly a great game that if nothing else will be a bench mark, again peter molleneux gets some 
 new ideas into it if only there was a bit of a polish up in there too.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinstar
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 15, 2005 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Peter Molynoux's greatest downfall is that he makes games with a grand vision. So grad that the 
 game can never totally live up to the vision. B&W II is the opposite of that. 
  
  Rather than try and stick to his grand vision, Molynoux has given up parts of it... many parts 
 of it to be exact. So many parts that the game has taken on a sour 'mainstream' flavor that should 
 not be present. 
  
  The core of the game is solid and stable, and delivers on what it promises for the most part. However 
 the little things in the game that made the first one so lovable are missing. 
  
  The great creature variety, the lovable silver scroll quests, the little details like fireflies 
 producing one-shot miricles and villagers dancing around a stone that you have placed in the village, 
 thinking it is the coolest thing ever; the little things that really draw you into the world are 
 all missing. 
  
  The silver scrolls are far too cut-and-dry, the creature variety hurts (I miss my polar bear) and 
 while there are TONS of little visual details, they don't bring you into the world like the little 
 details of B&W I did. 
  
  Despite all those flaws, B&W II is still a solid title. I do not regret spending $50 on it one 
 bit and it is still keeping me entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 15, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Ive been waiting for this game ever since it was announced a couple years ago. I was a big fan 
 of the original, even with all its flaws and missing promised/hyped features. The original Black 
 and White was trying something new, and I think they pulled it off.
  The second installment of this God Game starts you off in familiar territory. This time around 
 you arent forced to sit through tutorials, you may opt to jump right in, pick a creature and go. 
 I would recommend doing the tutorials .. Although they are EXTREMELY boring, they do render tribute, 
 which is like money. By earning tribute, you may buy new structures, spells and even upgrade your 
 creature. 
  Okay, lets start of with graphics and performance. The game is beautiful. If your system has the 
 latest tech, equipped with the latest software updates and is humming like a baby, B&W2 will run 
 and look like a dream. My system which has an ATI 9700PRO with 1 gig of RAM and a P4 3 GIG CPU 
 ran the game pretty well. I noticed once your city starts getting bigger there is allot of choppy 
 frame rates to be had. It did not hinder the game play that badly, but it is noticable, especially 
 when zooming around the continent. If you are having problems with the game, be sure to update 
 all your Hardware drivers, and install the Black and White PATCH that was recently released (October 
 2005) . This may help with any performance issues you may be having.
  Sound and Music. The soundtrack is well done and goes nice with the game. Im not blown away by 
 the symphonic score or anything, but it good enough. The sound effects may sometimes annoy people, 
 like the heart beat effect could get on peoples nerves. I personally didnt notice it, but know 
 a few people that played B&W2 that were annoyed by it. What I was annoyed by were the villagers 
 moaning about their wants and desires. Say you need food or wood, the villagers will let you 
 know about it by constantly moaning We need Food and We need wood in their quant British accents. 
 Ya, I made sure my villagers never went without their needs :)
  Right, lets talk about Game Play. I was not impressed at all by the AI (Artificial Intelligence) 
 of B&W2. Seriously, the game is far too easy. The original game was very challenging, maybe even 
 a bit too hard, but this installment is just plain weak. Really, all you have to do is build a 
 fortified wall around your towns and the enemy will never attack. They will send catapults later 
 in the game, but your creature can easily step on those. So thats pretty much it  build a wall 
 = you win! Oh and speaking of the creature. I like how you are able to read its thoughts now, but 
 cmon, the AI is nothing ground breaking. I was really hoping the Creature AI was going to be something 
 that people would be talking about on all the gaming forums for the next few months. The controls 
 can be very sluggish and unresponsive at times, especially when dealing with choppy frame rates. 
 The game interface is easy but intuitive; it gets the job done. The Silver Scroll side quests, 
 though a nice addition, dont really offer any compelling reason to finish them. Maybe if these 
 quests offered something to enhance game play, there would be reason to. Heck, Id do the scroll 
 quests if the prize was a funny hat for my creature or something ;)
  I think they could really have had something truly great here. The premise has so much potential, 
 but it just isnt able to reach the expectations of what gamers expect nowadays. Maybe we have 
 it too good, maybe were just jaded gamers whove seen it all and arent wowed by innovation. Who 
 knows? What I do know is that Black and White 2, though highly innovative on paper fails to see 
 its true potential on execution. I really like this game, but my creative side can only imagine 
 the possibilities.
  Final Thoughts. I love the idea of the Creature. Im not a big RTS fan and it was the Creature 
 which swayed me to try this type of game to begin with. I wish the creature could have played a 
 much bigger role in the game play of B&W2. With the huge response to such games as Nintendogs, 
 making this virtual pet a bigger part of the experience might have made this game something more 
 endearing. I would have loved to see Multiplayer in this game, especially with Lionhead supporting 
 the MOD community like it is. If anything, the lack of On-Line support could be the deal breaker 
 for a lot of people. What were you thinking Peter? 
  Black and White 2 is a great game, but most hardcore RTS gamers and virtual pet owners should avoid 
 it. For everyone else, this game provides a unique and enjoyable experience!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NEO797
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 15, 2005 1:18 pm PT
Review:  In this game you are a Greek god and u're supposed to fight against rival gods or races of people 
 such as the Japanese. U can control your own creature and u can make many platoons of different 
 type of warriors such as archers and armsmen. U can also create siege weapons.
  The buildings are very real and u can choose to build them in a godly mode (you collect the resources 
 needed for the building and you can build them with your hand. You can buy 4 types of wonders like 
 the siren wonder that converts enemy soldires into yours, earthquake wonder that creates an earthquake, volcano 
 wonder that creates a volcano on the ground and finally the tornado wonder that creates a tornado. U 
 must have worshippers to charge the wonders power.
  The new powers in this game are not as much as the ones in Black and White 1. U can have  
 and electric shock miracles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobstos
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 14, 2005 9:41 pm PT
Review:  ok. instead of making you read a wall of text, ive broken it up into a "positive" and a "negative 
 list:
  
  POSITIVE:
  1. the concept is Revolutionary with a capital R
  2. the open-end gameplay presents unlimited possibilities (literally)
  3. some of the best graphics 
 in an RTS game to date
  4. perfect blend of RTS, City Builder, God game
  5. cant get over the graphics, so it deserves to be listed twice
  6. Physics engine is more powerful 
 (therefore realistic) than Source and Havok
  7. Good variety in the civilizations
  8. looks good even on a low-end comp (like mine)
  9. the AI is brilliant, including your creature, 
 and your townsfolk
  10. a lot of "inside" jokes and humor that fans of the original will pick up
  
  NEGATIVES:
 
  1. some pretty major bugs in the retail version of the game... i still dont know how those soldiers 
 just WALKED right through my 50-foot walls
  2. like i said, the AI is brilliant, but only when it wants to be.
  3. long load times, and choppy 
 cutscenes
  4. sense of repetetion after about the 4-5 land
  
  CONCLUSION:
  this game should win the Game of the Year award, no doubt. definatley worth ALL your time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quent1015
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 14, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Black and White 2 is a god game, in which you can choose a path of good or evil, depending on your 
 actions as a god. The gameplay in Black and White 2 is very innovative and hasn't really been done 
 before. (except, of course, in Black and White) The concept of the game is a good enough reason 
 alone to get it, but the graphics are also very appealing. As for the sound, the voices of your 
 opponents get annoying, but otherwise I think it is fine.
  To sum it up, Black and White 2 is very enjoyable and was worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 14, 2005 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Black and White 2 is essentially the same as its predecessor. It has the same old tactics just 
 really tweaked. There are some new aspects that make the game more enjoyable then the last but 
 there really isn't enough new material in this game to make it worth while.
  The graphics in this game are actually very much improved they look incredibly better then the 
 first game including the expansion pack. The terrain looks more life-like and your pet looks droolable 
 from the detail. The people in your villages don't have any improvement to them but you'll start 
 to see different actions (i. e. pregnant women) . 
  The gameplay is jumbled into a toolbar that takes a while to really get used to like any sim-type 
 game. Though constructing buildings tends to be a lot easier and very well done this time around. 
 Instead of just supplying the wood and waiting forever for the humans to build whatever it is you 
 can also take a tree and do a quick build by using the tree's materials (now you may have been 
 able to do this is the previous one but its been awhile since i played it i don't remember being 
 able to) . 
  Now the key factors that make this game more enjoyable is for one, the graphics look amazing and 
 they don't ever turn down like in some sim-type games when scrolling or zooming in to watch battles. 
 The other factor is the fact that you can see what your pet is thinking of doing before he does 
 it so its easier to discipline and make your pet obedient by large. The last enjoyable moment is 
 the leash... you don't have 5 of them to deal with just one. Yea, thats right i said one. Only ONE 
 leash to train your pet and thats what is so great. 
  Well, in conclusion the game is a good game and very enjoyable but the only reason i would recommend 
 it, is if you're just curious and you have money to spare or if you've never played the first. 
 Otherwise try to borrow from a friend or something because is most of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SunnySimantov
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2005 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Well, black & white 2 sports a huge amount of features. Lets start with: You play the role of a 
 god, the god of the greeks and it is up to your choice wether to lead them through peace or warfare. 
 You have a creature, which is your icon in the world, and is your virtual pet. There's a huge city 
 building aspect, while you can still play in an RTS style, by sending soldiers to war.
  
  So lets cut the chit-chat. Black & White 2 (in short: BW2) uses an extremely easy interface and 
 interaction with the game. You use your godly hand to do anything, via the mouse. To move the camera, 
 to pick up things, to throw, to punch things, to cast miracles - anything is done with the mouse 
 AKA your godly hand.
  You can be either good or evil, depending on your actions.
  Being good or evil changes the way ANYTHING looks, your hand, your city, the land, the animals 
 and flora.
  So, lets some it up:
  Gameplay: 10.
  Amazingly fun, innovative, easy interface, anything is simply so.. great. I enjoyed it, it features 
 so many things to do and explore, many good and fun puzzles, incredible small details (lives of 
 each person in a big city, come on!) . Aside minor bugs, everything ran great!
  Graphics - 10.
  No other game to date had featured complete lands, islands, whatever, in this 
 scale. From the tiny ants, to making the world seem small. The sun effects are cool, individual 
 blades of grass, amazing water, lots of combined simulations. Nice frame rate at good details in 
 my 2.8 ghz intel, 512MB RAM and geforce 6200.
  Sound - 10.
  Simply to put, anything sounds great. Flexive background music which gets hotter during battle 
 scenes. Hear the voices of the underwater world. Amazing voice acting, specifically the angel and 
 demon who follow you to everywhere you go. Cool sounds of battles.
  Value - 10.
  The 10 lands the game features are very long and worthy. I hadn't finished the game yet, after 
 about 15 hours of play. The replay value is great, you can continue with all technologies gained 
 and the same creature, from the beginning of the game. Many things to explore, hours of just having 
 fun.
  Tilt - 10, I just can't say this game is less then perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antispimmer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 14, 2005 4:29 pm PT
Review:  When I first read GameSpot's official review I was quite disappointed with their rating. I had 
 been looking forward to this sequel for years, and for it to recieve less than a 9 left me a little 
 disheartened. However, when I was finally able to find the game and play it myself I was more than 
 happy with Lionhead's work.
  
  The gameplay is similar to that of it's predecessor, with a few changes. The new interface makes 
 it much easier to build up an impressive city, and was a much appreciated addition. Players are 
 also given the ability to change the time of day, which affects the behavior of the people.
  
  Graphically, the game is outstanding... however the hardware requirements to play with the 
 full settings of the game are much more than the average player has at the moment. Still, this 
 is understandable when one takes into account the detail of the water, fields and bloom effects.
 
  
  After only just a few hours of gameplay I can already appreciate the value of this game. While 
 I have had a few crashing issues when playing the game I was able to fix them by updating my video 
 and sound card drivers. I am extremely pleased with this game and would recommend it to anyone 
 who enjoyed the original or has yet to try it. I give it a 9.3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axle126
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 14, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is visually appealing, but publishers need to understand that there is more to making 
 games then how life like the graphics are. I felt they didn't fix some of the biggest problems 
 from the first game. 
  
  The game takes far too long to get interesting... It seems like the entire game is a tutorial. 
 The helpers should be able to be disabled because they are annoying and just state the obvious. 
 There were fun moments, but the game could have been more polished (sometimes the AI is terrible) . 
 
  
  Overall it's a good game, but are you willing to spend your hard earned money on it? If I could 
 do it all again I don't think I would pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LexEldron
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 14, 2005 8:16 am PT
Review:  I am disappointed so far in the game play. Would seem that the tutorial can not be turned off and 
 every game must start with a tutorial whether you want to or not... and it is LONG. If I had known 
 what they had done to the gameplay sequence, I would not have bought the game. After a while those 
 helper Gods become VERY annoying.
  
  There is suppose to be things one can do to change things through the 'game mods' option, but who 
 has the time? Personally, I think they could have done so much better with this game, but they 
 blew it. But now I am stuck with it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azsumbabati
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2005 7:44 am PT
Review:      
  Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode  
     Campaign Mode : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: home1986
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 14, 2005 6:59 am PT
Review:  Graphic: nice graphic, I noticed that they used normal mapping on the creature. This makes them 
 look alot better! But, the animation sometimes is very wierd.
  
  Sound: Average, the voice acting need some improvements
  
  gameplay: innovative, fun but the 
 choice of army units is very limited (only 2 kind of units which can be recuited) . The AI is stupid. 
 It's totally crap when some enemy troops is right under your creature's feet, the creatures don't 
 know how to hit them. This makes them look stupid. 
  
  Anyway, i have played this game for 2 days and each 5 hrs straight and I nearly forget there is 
 a quit game button =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 14, 2005 6:05 am PT
Review:  Firstly Black and White 2 is not a sequel, it is in fact a remake of the original. I guess the 
 need to remake this game was to iron out and improve the flaws of the first attempt. So has it 
 improved? Well yes and no. 
  
  Yes, the look has improved greatly. Your creature looks lovely and the land and the sea take you 
 closer to the world with fine textures and lighting effects. The arts department have taken full 
 advantage of modern graphics cards texture mapping and effects abilities.
  
  For first time players who did not experience BW the first time around, it is a good game to add 
 to your collection. The fascination of having a pet creature to groom and help evolve is something 
 that no other game has and acts as a hook to the rest of the game. 
  
  Its a god game, there is no denying it and you work towards a final assault on the enemy like 
 any other game of this type but with the option of winning your opposition with goodness. The way 
 you play the game shapes your tactics. If you choose to be good you have to build a city that can 
 impress the enemies followers enough to join you. This is achieved by using Tribute Points to 
 buy different building types and abilities. Each building comes with an rating of how impressive 
 it is and when built adds to the city score. When you city scores a certain amount of points a 
 settlement of the opposition becomes yours. There is also other factures involved in achieving 
 a win through this style of play such as the layout of your town and how happy your villagers are 
 etc.
  
  In the early stages of the game this approach is fine, however as the game becomes harder it becomes 
 boring and as you dont get to do much other than town planning. You will eventually want to play 
 the game by using force by raising armies and training your creature to fight and kill. This is 
 much more fun and you get the most out of the game. In doing so the land and the character of your 
 creature changes. If you treat your enemy and villagers with the same contempt the more you slide 
 towards evil and your creature in turn will follow you down this road. 
  
  Your creature can be trained and exercised and can be taught to look after your city and followers 
 for you. They can be shown how to build, gather resources and fight. Again you can buy Tribute 
 Points to give you creature abilities and skills to make them more powerful. 
  
  As there are a few techniques that have to be understood in order to play the game, it begins with 
 a tutorial, which is helpful but leaves you a bit short. The game has various symbols and stats 
 that provide feedback on your buildings and city and no where does it explain what these icons 
 mean (not even in the instruction manual) . This is frustrating as in order to build your city you 
 need to know how what youre doing is working or not. The menus tool bar is also flawed as the 
 icon representing certain actions and tools hold no reference to them.
  
  Now, to the many that the bought the original little has changed and you are still left with the 
 feeling that something is missing. Your creature responds to training better and you can see what 
 they are thinking so that you can shape them more easily. Although at times I am not to sure if 
 they are taking notice of your commands. 
  There are also the added armies and a different approach to wining the game, which I do feel becomes 
 redundant as playing a good god become boring. The annoying tutorial has to be played every time 
 you start a new game as with the first BW. Why they have done this again I do not understand as 
 it was a complaint with the first game. It also still has its fair share of bugs, which of course 
 will be fixed but how the play testers missed the fact that the enemies armies can walk through 
 your city walls on occasions leaves me speechless.
  
  This game needs a lot of processing power and you need a modern rig to play it or your will suffer 
 from bad frame rates which of course make the game difficult to play even on the lowest settings. 
 I have a 2.7 Pentium 4, 1 meg of ram and an ASUS 9600xt 128mb and suffer from poor performance 
 when the screen becomes busy. So think carefully if you CPU falls to far below this basic bench 
 mark.
  
  I would suggest it as a fair investment if you have never played BW before or loved the first game. 
 If however you were not to hooked on the original and believe the sequel will add and iron out 
 problems you wished to be rectified, well although many problems have been corrected its still 
 the same game but with knobs on. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Anguish
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 14, 2005 2:13 am PT
Review:  
  OK hey guys well from what i've played of this games its beyond all my expectations as the game 
 has a more elongated playin factors compaired to the first one as we all already know. the game 
 play has improved greatly and has shown all the other factors in the first title that where great 
 already and then built and improved on them. like for example taking over towns much much easier 
 then in the first one so simple to impress a town or just crush them, the creature too has greatly 
 improved and it much eaiser to control and make do with whatever it wants too for me this is one 
 of the best God game genres ever made easily up there with civilization games 
  
  ok thanks for reading
  
  Steve.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_bazzana
Rating: 4.1
Date: Oct 14, 2005 1:55 am PT
Review:  shocked is all I can say. After tearing at the wrapping like a rabid wolf and watching every pixel 
 trickle over during the installation process i was shocked to find upon starting the game it chuuged 
 along at a snails pace and by the time i finally picked my creature it crashed. hehe... nah its 
 all good little bugs are common so i download the patch still my troubles continue and after spending 
 an hour goin through trouble shooting and changing my graphical settings i am finally able to play 
 this masterpiece of modern enertainment.
  sadly it turns out that this masterpiece is not the inspired picasso-esque game it was touted to 
 be. No its more like a messy splatter that you would see at a local market, albeit a very pretty 
 splatter (only if you have the correct graphics card)
  The Story is boring with little substance which is ironic in a game so driven by its narritive 
 oh but its so engrossing adding little pieces here and there to your city they say yeah well this 
 is a god sim last time i checked simcity did the same thing alot better and with lower system reqs.
 
  rts of the ages i hear the annoying voice of another lionhead fanboy say but when has an rts with 
 three units ever seen crital acclaim? i cant remember one can you? geez i no peter has done soo 
 much in the past for this industry he is without question an icon but maybe for his next game he 
 should keep his mouth shut and actually make a game that is successful because its good not because 
 its got more hype than your standard hollywood piece of trash big star action film this game really 
 was supposed to be something special but even after returning the game the next day i still can 
 feel the bitter disappointment of not getting what i was told i was getting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendOfStern
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 13, 2005 8:38 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played all the way through the game yet, but it has really hooked me in. I like the new 
 additions to teaching your creature by way of the thought bubbles, but they should have included 
 the three leashes from the original instead of the single one they have now. The tribute idea is 
 great, and there are many new buildings that add to the game. Armies are great, but they shouldn't 
 necessarily be evil. They are for fighting, but they are also to protect your town. Whatever. All 
 in all, I really like this game. Hopefully upcoming patches will add to the length of this game, 
 and will add some more features that will make it even better. For anybody saying that they don't 
 like this game, I completely disagree with you. For anybody thinking about getting this game, I 
 would definately tell you to get it. If you don't like strategy games, it's not for you. But if 
 you like spending a lot of time making an insanely powerful city and destroying everyone or making 
 them flock to you by the hundreds, you should definately buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackassjoe
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2005 6:40 pm PT
Review:  let me just start out by saying that Black and White 2 is an excellent sequel to one of my favorite 
 games of all time. It addresses many of the problems in the previous installment and also implements 
 a set of new features that really augments the entire experience. Here are several things that 
 in my opinion made Black and White 2 a better game than the original.
  
  1. An advanced creature AI that acts very lifelike. I very much enjoyed seeing my precocious little 
 avatar explore the wonders in the world and develop to his personality under my guidence. He's 
 also alot less prone to unprecedented freakouts. 
  2. The RTS element, while simplistic is well implemented making sure that the plays retains focus 
 on the central god element of the game. Although the RTS engine is not very advanced its still 
 lots of fun watching the little buggers beat eachother to death. I especially enjoyed watching 
 my creature tear through a terrified platoon of norse swordsmen. 
  3. The Game simply looks gorgeous, i have the urge to buy a 4000 dollar gaming pc just to play 
 it in its full glory. 
  4. The city building interface is simple and has a full array of different structures for you to 
 experiemnt with
  5. Ying and Yang are back and they are as colourful as ever
  6. Miracles are back and they are better than ever. There are now many different things that you 
 can do with the same set of miracles. I've spent just hours experiemnting with them. 
  
  With that being said, there are some changes that I found to be quite disdainful.
  
  1. The 
 creature development tool is just too cut and dry and loses the mysterious appeal that the first 
 game had. I loved just staring at my monkey for half and hour to see all the crazy and unexpected 
 things that he would do. 
  2. Numbers are all that really matters when it comes to war which defeats the point of training 
 up a platoon of seasoned veterans
  3. Being good automatically limits you to one city since the only way to conquer a village is by 
 force. Instead of having the people migrate to your city, they should have just kept the old system 
 where you gain control of the village. That way you would have more room for development and definitively 
 larger infulence bubble without having to resort to evil acts.
  4. This is a corrollary to my previous point, in the first game you converted villages by showing 
 the people your miracules of wonder or destruction. Now you convert them through beautiful cities 
 or large armies. While this is an interesting aspect it takes away the charm of being a god. People 
 dont no longer worship you because you are able to perform supernatual acts, they do so because 
 either you can offer good housing or you'll stick their heads on a pike. This dosent really make 
 you feel like a god as much as a city planner or a military general. 
  5. Good and Evil aren't very well defined concepts within the game. Building an army is always 
 evil even if its done for defensive purposes. I dont care what greenpeace says but you can't become 
 an evil and maligant deity just because you tore a bunch of trees out of the ground.
  
  Overall I found Black and White 2 to be a excellently made game that I will be immersing myself 
 in during these next few weeks. Although there are things that I don't like about this sequel they 
 are outweighed by the plethora of new features and augmentations to the original. I strongly recommend 
 this game to anyone with a god complex or just some free time to mess around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zreneau
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 13, 2005 3:34 pm PT
Review:  First let me just say that I am probably in a select group when it comes to liking games of this 
 genre. That is assuming there are enough "sandbox" style games to call it a genre. However, that 
 being said I have been disappointed with many aspects of Black and White 2. Namely that it is not 
 so much a sequel as a remake of a disappointing and half finished original. So one would imagine 
 that the final product, considering development time, would at the very least be substantially 
 better, if not different.
  
  It is my sad duty to inform you that it is not worth your hard earned money. It is not worth your 
 money if only, because we bought this game once already and it wasn't finished. Now that we have 
 the finished, albeit sub-par final product, we are expected to pay for it a second time? No sir.
 
  
  My only comment as far as the A. I. goes; Peter Molyneax is some kind of hack and a strangely popular 
 one. That may be because his profession doesn't have much for comparison. The creature, which seems 
 to be the primary representation of A. I. in this game, lacks any real observable intelligence. 
 The only sentient feature it demonstrates in abundance is attention deficit disorder. One can often 
 feel murderous frustration trying to simply get their creature to perform the simplest task, such 
 as go from point A to B, without getting distracted. The coding that runs the brains of the enemy 
 or your own people for that matter may consist of a simple bash script for all of its complexity.
 
  
  The tutorial is so completely obnoxious that if you've ever played a video game or went potty by 
 yourself that it will seem unnecessary and condenscending. The irony of the tutorial is that it 
 isn't even thorough. You'll find there are many subtle aspects (read: poorly thought out) that 
 you are completely oblivious to, but will nevertheless have a detrimental effect on your game performance. 
 Also, remember that everytime they patch the game you'll get to replay this lovely experience!
 
  
  Some have argued that the RTS element is lacking and this game isn't for RTS'ers. I would agree, 
 but only in the sense that this game isn't for anyone. The reasoning behind adding the army elements 
 must have been akin to, "Hey, what else could we add to put another feature bullet on the back 
 of the box?"
  
  Don't even get me started about the 106 MEGABYTE 1.1 patch that was released to fix major problems 
 with the game less than a week after it hit the shelf. Anyone that played the original Black & 
 White was probably dismayed to see this familiar pattern crop up so soon after release. Oh, by 
 the way it wipes your saved games, which it warns you about at length. As if to say, "Get used 
 to it. Everytime we patch it you'll lose your saves and we'll patch it often. It is either that 
 or you can never play it." Deja Vu anyone?
  
  If you're curious as to what sort of bugs there are check the fix list. I personally observed a 
 total game crash around Island 6 or 7 and observed numerous graphical glitches. I'm not talking 
 about textures or something that can be blamed on a bad video card or driver. I'm talking about 
 blasting a wall with a fireball and then after it's all over the fireball hangs in mid-air for 
 the rest of the level. There is also the occasionally army that can phase through your city wall 
 for no apparent reason, which was mentioned in the gamespot review. The fact that I observed it 
 as well tells me that it isn't an uncommon event.
  
  What I consistently see from the reviews I'm reading is that everyone is being too generous. Perhaps 
 because no one wants to state the obvious. That this is just a repeat of the bungling incompetence 
 that we saw from Lionhead the last time around. I get the visual image of a group of parents not 
 wanting to crush the spirit of a small child by telling them that they are awful at whatever discipline 
 they are obsessing over and they would save themselves and the world a lot of grief if they just 
 drop it now. Developers need to learn the hard way that they can't just package a turd, put a $50 
 price tag on it, and then go on to half-ass their way through their next abomination. We have fallen 
 into the same pit with Hollywood. They churn out the same tripe, simply because we keep going to 
 see it!
  
  I could go on and on about why this game is disappointing. I could also tell you what I like about 
 that game. I won't though, because the disappointments are too numerous and the positives might 
 give you the mistaken impression that any part of this game is redeeming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CodeBlack2003
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2005 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Hey guys! This is my first review for any game really so go a little easy on me. See you guys on 
 the message boards!
  
  I have got to say this is a great game. Sure, it didn't live up to all of the hype but that's because 
 everyone put too much of their hopes on all the little details but it's still fulfilled a lot of 
 its potential as a game.
  
  Story: The story doesn't really lead off from the last game so if you haven't play Black and White 
 you can still enjoy the story. It starts off with pray just like the last game though. The Greek 
 capital is under attack by the Aztecs. You come to the rescue but not in time to save very many 
 (you go from area to area grabbing people and putting them into a vortex) . You save around 25 people 
 if I remember. From there you go from island to island either defeating or impressing the Norse 
 (1 island) and the Japanese (3 islands) . You finally get to the Aztecs at the end and well... you 
 can find out for yourself from there.
  
  Gameplay: The game is based off of being a god and they surely pull it off with the gameplay. Even 
 the slightest motion of your hand over the fields moves the individual stalks of wheat. You can 
 collect up to 6 miracles (water, fire, heal, lightning, meteor, and shield) and up to four epic 
 miracles (the siren, earthquake, hurricane, and awesome volcano) which are pretty much wonders 
 and alters put into one if you played the last game. Almost anything is movable using your godly 
 hand including huge rocks used for crushing people. Then there is your creature. He can do much 
 of the stuff you can but outside of your influence (area where you can control things) . He can 
 act as an evil warrior, a peaceful gatherer or anything in between. You decide whether he is a 
 mindless robot or a playful pet. Overall it is an incredible experience and if you don't enjoy 
 it much the game is easily modded because of the generosity of Lionhead.
  
  Graphics: Let me just say that the graphics are breathe taking in this game. The only downfall 
 is that some major video cards (the 6800 is one) are a little laggy with the game. Like I said 
 earlier though, you can move the crops by merely brushing your hand over them. The lava from the 
 volcano is almost perfect as it flows from the volcano epic onto the opposing village. Even the 
 creature you wield is graphically stunning as it changed from good to evil and even the hair on 
 it changes.
  
  Overall: Great game! It is a little less open-ended than Black and White 1 and has a couple of 
 bugs with the starting copy that need fixed (pick up patch 1.1 to fix most of them) . One more downfall 
 is the lack of any kind of sandbox, multiplayer, or skirmish mode in the retail copy. They have 
 said that they are making a patch to correct that soon though. Other than that I think it's great 
 and the way they designed the game leaves it very easy to mod for people that don't like it quite 
 as much as I do.
  
  My Score: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafarsadik
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 13, 2005 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Well I can only say that I've been enjoying this great game for the past 3 days (non stop) now 
 and all of you fans out there will be glad to know that it's everything it has promised to be. 
 The game is a great sequal and even a great game on it's own (for all the unfamiliar ppl with the 
 original B&W) .
  It's pretty cool seeing all those tiny guys worshiping you while you can either unleash, or send 
 out you monster to help them out. Just imagine how cool it is to send out your "sacred cow" in to 
 kick ass hehe!! this is just one of those things you would be itching to try!
  If anyone out there is still having second thoughts about getting this baby well I tell you GO 
 AND GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midn8t
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 13, 2005 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Game dosnt have half the micarls that oringal had, it also is very none linarer its hunder precent 
 story, based and driving so once u played it theres no none zero replay value, plus it is really 
 short i mean horriable short took me less then day to beat.
  
  its not worth 39$ its more of a 29$ game just becuase its great i mean and all just very well you 
 wouldnt know that they took very long on it.
  
  it has alot of bugs the AI is completly hunder precent stupida
  
  its like game has no AI
 
  
  yets put it this way computer bascly hardly every attacks you.
  
  you put wall up just build city and there people come to u and thats all u have to do bascly never 
 have to build army u never half to even defend ur city hardly.
  
  game needs an addon horriable for free mode and some more add in micarals.
  
  that make game 
 sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princekenji
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 13, 2005 11:22 am PT
Review:  It's amazing on how much it has evolved since the first B&W. From the new spells, to the amazing 
 graphics it is well worth the wait for me. You will notice right away that its a totally new experience. 
 There is more interaction that I like about it too; the fact that I can summon up an army and reek 
 destruction across the land with my troops and my creature with spells is amazing and fun for countless 
 hours. I recommend this to those who enjoy god like powers over everything on the screen. Also 
 to who enjoys playing it hours at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pozpoz
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2005 11:09 am PT
Review:  This game is unbeliveable!!!!! Lionhaed mde sore that everything in the game is truly amaizing!!! 
 From your giant creature to the smallest things like bugs and flowers! They even made awasem credits!!! 
 and that says a lot!!! The creature is exteremely smarter than before and is improved in sorten 
 ways like now he can live by eating woods and even rocks, wich i found funny..... This game is 
 soo beautiful and so are th people in your city! you'll try to be evil but you just can't when 
 looking at your worshipers!
  
  BEST GAME OF THE YEAR!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D5120
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 13, 2005 9:18 am PT
Review:  I loved the first Black and White, granted it was buggy as hell, but it was very unique, training 
 a pet as well as a RTS. So as you can imagine I was dying to play Black and White 2.
  Don't get me wrong, If you've never played Black and White, you'll probably enjoy this game more. 
 
  The first concentrated on the creature, you'd have to keep him on the learning lead to learn spells, 
 what to and not to eat etc. This one, they might as well just put in check boxes, eat grain, yes 
 or no. The creature was to full size by the 3rd level, unlike the first when you spent a lot of 
 time making sure he slept in his pen, so he grew, this was kinda disappointing, made me feel like, 
 whats the point in continuing, he's full size, knows all his spells, knows what to do and not 
 do. Also the first, yourself as the god had a larger range of spells, from fireballs to natural 
 disasters, this one you have a maximum of 6, and only 4 for the creature. Pretty lame.
  The creature fighting (one of the best parts of the first) has now gone, and you just connect the 
 lead to the opposing creature and leave them to it, you don't get to assist with the fighting.
 
  Don't get me wrong, this game is ok, the graphic are improved and you don't have to go through 
 the painful tutorial as you did in the first, but I just felt like it had so much potential, but 
 so much was missed.
  If Lionhead combined Black and White & Black and White 2, and brought out Black and White 2 1/2, 
 putting back in all the bits they've missed, it would be fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mythman93
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2005 8:26 am PT
Review:  Black and White, the game that set out to be the game on everyones shelf. Black and White was 
 adored by some, and shunned by others, but now Black and White 2 is here and it is Simply Astonishing. 
 Black and White 2 combines two basic elements, God and City. The God part of the game consists 
 of taking up quests and taking care of your cute (or monstrous) pet. As for as the quests go, catching 
 sheep that are being born and flying out of a lamb is not very thrilling. I really cant say that 
 the other quests are boring, it just doesnt give you that godly feeling you got in BaW1. Bad news 
 is that the game forces you to do these little side quests because they give you Tribute, which 
 is needed to buy new building so you can survive. Taking care of your creature has its ups and 
 downs in this new game, I think I am going to go eat the villager. Now you can see what your 
 creature is going to do. The up is that it is easier for players to find out what your creature 
 wants, and notify of it. The down is huge; it takes out a lot of excitement and surprise that BaW1 
 held - This may just be the biggest let down in the game to any true fan. You can choose from 5* 
 different creatures in the game, The Ape, the Lion, the Tiger, the Wolf, and last but certainly 
 the most loveable the Cow. All these creatures are the same in spirit  they all grow up, eat, 
 poo, and sleep. Good thing is that each creature has a slightly different personality (if you are 
 looking for a warrior, get the tiger, sadly you can only get the Tiger if you pre-ordered or have 
 the collectors edition) . 
  
  City building can be summed up in one easy sentence: you place a building, your villagers make 
 it. You do have to care for your villagers though, if they are unhappy they wont have a good birth 
 rate, and they wont work as hard! Your villagers can have 7 types of jobs: Breeder (not animals) , 
 Farmer, Forester, Worshiper, Refiner, Mineworker, and Builder. Youll need to have at least five 
 people working each of these jobs to have a successful city ( tip, you should have a 10:5 farmer 
 to breeder ratio to keep all the villagers full and have extra grain for your creature) . Now, you 
 must be asking, WHERE IS THE WAR, I WANT ARMYS OF 500 MEN MARCHING IN MY NAME, well here it is, 
 the big war section *drum-role*. you make an armory, drag a flag, and choose how many jobless 
 people you want to go to war. You even have a choice of archers, siege weapons, and regular footmen.
 
  
  Overall this game had the same outcome as the original, adored by some, and shunned by others.
 
  
  Tip: Get patch 1.1 as soon as you install the game and dont loose your saved 
  games
  
  Tip: Armies walk through walls in 1.0
  
  Tip: One big army of 100 is better then 4 armies 
 of 25.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zlinko
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 13, 2005 8:18 am PT
Review:  When I bought Black and White 2 I was so happy. I was finally going to be able to be the god I 
 wanted to be, unlike the first Black and White where I felt more like a babysitter. This B&W corrects 
 a lot of the annoying tasks that need to be done in the first game. No more having to always worry 
 that your villagers have food, if they see a field they will start to farm it them selfs.
  
  On recommendation I do have is that if your system seems to be on the low side of the requirements 
 of this game expect lag.. and a lot of it. When I got B&W2 I had a AMD Athlon XP 1800+ (1.4GHz 
 but equal to a 1.8GHz P3) , an Nvidia GeForce 4 Ti 4600 and 1GB of memory. That was not enough... 
 well it was for the lowest of the low setting for it to run smoothly. The mouse lag was horrible 
 and made me not want to play the game. This week I decided to upgrade some parts and now have an 
 AMD Athlon 2800+ (2.4GHz but equal to a 2.8GHz P3) with an Nvidia GeForce 6600GT and I have all 
 the setting on High with no lag want so ever. 
  
  I do have to say that the game is great looking. There are subtle thing added that make it look 
 amazing. Like the water distortion, the way the sun reflects off of it. The grass and seeing the 
 flowers bloom in a field. The depth of field (where what in front of you looks clear and sharp 
 but the background or things in the distance look blurry, the say way the human eye works.) .
  
  Lets just say if you have a good system, like to play god and building villages this is the 
 game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: galtchenko
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 13, 2005 6:09 am PT
Review:  Well, I/m a little bit dissapointed, must say it was not worth 4 years and a lion part of my free 
 time, that I spent looking for the news about this game. First of all I'll start from the first 
 part of this game, which i found really brilliant. It was suppoused that the second part will be 
 more interesting, becouse of the new development - armies that the player is now able to create. 
 But in my opinion it just spoiled the game, it lost it's original idea. Also the money, that player 
 get full filling the tasks make this game too materialistic, there is no more spirit of a god in 
 this game^ god vs. humans - sounds more like a joke. It was quiet interesting to watch the development 
 of people, but the gods as well, as it was in the first part, but now this idea is lost, too. The 
 silver quests are quit boring and not originall. The game comes to the sitting behind srtong walls 
 and watching your people born children - that's for the good god. But the buildings became more 
 interesting, the creature became more interesting and if you like the firest part it worth to play 
 the second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smellypj
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 12, 2005 8:39 pm PT
Review:  The long awatied Black and White 2 is finally here, was it worth the wait. Yes it was, this game 
 was outstanding from start to finish. Lionhead studios did a great job in making you feel like 
 you were actually a single person in a RTS game. That person would be a god. I am a fan of the 
 orgiognal Black and White, and this game is a major inprovment. 
  Perhaps the biggest notciable inprovment is how everything changes according if you are good or 
 evil. From your builfings to your contrable god hand. The graphics are good, nothing to really 
 brag about though. The Military aspect of the game is great, but I think they could of toned up 
 the movement, and thier AI But overall it makes the game a lot more intresting. Many people saw 
 how you could see your creatures toughts was bad, I think this will attract more people to the 
 game. And more importantly you can make your creatuer what you want it to be more easily.
  This games campgain is a rough ride, some levels will be very diffacult, but i think anyone considering 
 buying this game should give it a shoot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unknown_Knight
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 12, 2005 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Be good god, be evil god. Now I have played this game for hours since I bought it the day it was 
 released. The intro movie is pretty cool. When the game starts you are introduced to your angel 
 and devil. To me the devil has this suck up gig going on, always backing up your evil deeds and 
 warfare. Your angel has this whole philosophical side to him: "The man is happy and all is well." 
 He really likes it when the other tribes join you through impression. The next step is your creature. 
 The creature is almost your ID on earth. My thoughts are that you should be able to set a personality 
 for your choice of creature and more a selection, I would like to see a bear or maybe a more gorrila 
 like ape. The best thing is that you can do all you need to do with the mouse, no buttons or fancy 
 toolbars. The first island really gives you an impression on the graphics and samples of the simple 
 gamplay. When you complete all the scrolls on the first island you then go to your greek capital 
 to find it in ruins by the Aztecs. Now only under the most extreme circumstances could the Aztecs 
 even reach the greeks., I think. You then save around ten villiagers before a volcano is summoned 
 over the city. Then you get some revenge by killing some paltoons. Okay, you are a God, at your 
 captial, you are pissed. Shouldn't you be able to lay down some serious power on the Aztecs? Moving 
 on. Miricles, you can cast water, fire, shield, lighting, and metors. First I would expect an earth 
 miricle with god power, the ablity to mold the earth and create natural wonders and the whole thing 
 behind the infulence ring, you should be able to anything you want within the entire land. I think 
 the infulence ring should only effect your ablity to simply build. Building cities is cool. I love 
 building villas next to temples and taverns, makes the people happy. I make sure that there are 
 an even distrubtion of temples for each part of my city. The wonders are nice too. The siren wonder 
 does'nt do much besides impress the locals. As well the other wonders are both show and war. The 
 war simulations are top notch and whats best you can use your creature and your own powers if near 
 your infulence ring. The thing where you can drag and drop your armies is cool to the point you 
 don't have to make soilder by soilder like in most war games. Speaking of better than war games, 
 ex: warcraft, you don't have to have special people trained to build your city and ect. You can 
 build along side the people to using god building which is very very useful and quick. I mostly 
 tend to be a Good god but always end up building an army to keep out invaders or for defense. You 
 can rely on pure impression for a few levels, but when you reach the second land of japenese, you 
 will have to fight. I think Black and White 2 is an awesome game with the freedom it offers. But 
 still not enough freedom and power is there yet. I say: buy it and enjoy and go nuts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: idextrose
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 12, 2005 4:22 pm PT
Review:  The Graphics are nothing short of amazing. For me I think the graphics are better then HL2 and 
 Fear but that is just my opinion. The sheer epic feel of this game blows my mind. If you are a 
 fan of the B&W series then this game is a MUST get for your gaming collection. 
  
  This game has everything that you will ever need to keep your attention. The attention to detail 
 in this game is great. The detail from when you are zoomed out to 100% to the detail when you are 
 zoomed in to 100%. When you are zoomed out you can see the island that is your to conquer. From 
 that view you can see the clouds and the storms that are brewing up on the island. When you are 
 zoomed in you can see everything from the ants that occupy the island with you to the butterflies 
 flying around. It is so detailed that you can see the individual pieces of grain on the wheat stocks. 
 So if that is not detailed enough for you then just look at your pet and the the fur / hair that 
 is on him and then tell me that is not detailed enough for you.
  
  In my books this game should be put up for game of the year. Thanks for the great game Lionhead 
 Studio and EA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krashnburn18
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 12, 2005 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I have never played a Black and White game before but I must say I am impressed with B&W2. It incorporates 
 many of the traditional elements (resource gathering, villager production, army manufacturing) 
 that have made the genre so great while offering you a distinctly unique perspective. 
  Points in the game do get a bit repetitive but they are the parts of the game that were more a 
 necessity rather than a main draw. You don't play this game because you like pitting unique units 
 against others for a tactical advantage. You play B&W2 because you want to play as a god with all 
 his powers and his giant creature to go romping through the countryside with. This is by far and 
 away the most important and exciting part of the game (besides the amazing graphics) and the rest 
 of it tends to go unnoticed when playing.
  
  The big downside here is that the view controls are overly complicated. I appreciate the ability 
 to zoom in and pan left/right and move forwards/backwards but they just complicate it way too much. 
 A balanced perspective with a zoom ability would be enough but you end up spending a lot of time 
 manipulating your view just to be effective. That was my only real complaint against the game and 
 I would definitely recommend it to anyone looking for something fun and relatively light-hearted 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesheard
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 12, 2005 10:34 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game but as it is meant to be an improvement on what i already thought was 
 a good game and so i think it should have been better. I think the graphics in this game a great 
 and i have no complaints at all about the engine. However i fell the gameplay has a lot of problems 
 and the annoying thing is most are small problems that could be fixed very easily, i still hope 
 some may be corrected it future patches. 
  
  I'm sure many people watched movies and so pics of people doing the meteor shower on enemies towns 
 and walls, in truth this is not at all easy to do. Unlike the first game your influence (were you 
 can cast and user you god powers) does not go much beyond the last building in your town. Also 
 the maps are much larger so their is no way to throw the miracles from one town to the next. The 
 only way i have been able to reach most of the towns is building a row of houses to the enemies 
 walls.
  
  My next big moan is the fact that being good would not be that fun in black and white 2. If you 
 are going to be good in bw2 you may as well play sim city. Assuming you do not want to do evil 
 things you are left building an impressive city which gets boring quite quickly. Also as the creature 
 ai seems more simple this time round, he is much more robotic you do not even have the fun of training 
 him and teaching him spell. Considering you are god you are left felling very un-god like and more 
 like a construction worker.
  
  The other thing which i though was a slight disappointment is the number of miracles is very limited 
 compared to the first game.
  
  However overall it is still a fun game, it seems the have fixed a lot of the problems in the first 
 game but have also introduced a few new ones. I hear their should be 5 black and whites in total 
 so i look froward to bw3 were hopefully it should be perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lyndy62
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2005 2:57 am PT
Review:  I expected the game to be more balanced. As you play , it becomes obvious that the game is more 
 geared towards playing evil than good. Playing good almost seems as though you miss an entire part 
 of the game. I think they should have put more time into making it funner to play good. As it is, 
 the game is slow paced (sometimes terribly so) and a bit repetitive. If the game was a bit more 
 balanced so that good Gods had a bit more of a challange and fun, I would have given the game a 
 better score. Not withstanding the above statement, the game was still fun and refreshing from 
 the standard genres. I enjoyed playing it but felt wanting when playing the good God. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: god619
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2005 11:10 am PT
Review:  Many people think that BW was a boring game because there were many puzzles to complete. But I didnt 
 thoght that way. BW was the only game I played for 2 months. When I completed the game once I started 
 again. This i a reference how good this game was for me. And then, 4 years later I found out that 
 BW2 was on its way to the stores. Ive got knowledge of BW2 in the middle of the year (June, start 
 of July) . When I saw the tariler I was amazed by the graphics and gameplay. In the first time i 
 saw the trailer i thougt "Is this really BW2?". Lucky for the USA UK and Ireland because they already 
 have the game. I live in Portugal and I still have to wait for it. Im writing this because I want 
 to tell people that this is a great game (THE BEST) and is not going to disapoint you. Buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neliz
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2005 2:53 am PT
Review:  After playing the original Black&White over in anticipation for number 2 it is quite obvious that 
 there were a lot of things missing in the original.
  B&W2 improves on most of the things that were out of place in the original and lowers the difficulty 
 level for beginners so that just about anyone could enjoy it.
  
  The Graphics are at a premium and show excellent production values for todays standards and is 
 definitly a step above the graphics that have shown in 
  RTS's in recent years.
  
  Molyneux's influence from older Populous games feel better at home in B&W2 than they did in the 
 original and I'd say this game is a true successor to Populous.
  
  You spend a lot less time teaching your animal tricks and since tutorials are not mandatory in 
 B&W2 you feel like the game sped up quite a bit.
  
  On the downside, the "easyness" with which you play through levels is.. astounding. Other towns 
 inhabitants flock to your city without the slightest hessitation and a simple army at the gates, 
 supported by your creature in free will mode will fend off just about any opponent.
  
  The game feels better than the original but lacks a thorough challenge, which is really a shame. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravvy
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2005 11:53 pm PT
Review:  As much as i loved the original game i will have to say i love this one just as much. For starters 
 the game looks great, from the blades of grass to being hundreds of feet in the air. The AI for 
 your creature is way better and it seems so much easier to teach and and have your little minion 
 help you do things this go around. The RTS element is a very nice touch as well. I will admit i 
 miss the free non-linear gamepaly of the first a little, but thats not that big of a deal. I can 
 see how an average gamer would not like this game as well but hey that goes with the territory 
 of being innovative. Old fans will love this game, if ya did not like the first one pass it up, 
 go back to playing something thats been done a thousand times in your safe shell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacoman1423
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 11, 2005 10:39 pm PT
Review:  
  Black and White 2 is an awesome sequel to the original Black and White. It improves over its predecessor 
 in so many ways. Lionhead Studios have made a god game genre masterpiece with the up to date graphics, 
 the fun and enjoying gameplay, and added improvements.
  The graphics of BW2 is up-to-date, and visual surpasses the original. BW2 has many eye candies 
 that please the player. 
  The gameplay is fun and solid. One of the most noticeable addition is a tribute system. You earn 
 tribute for completing quests or objective. This tribute is used to gain improvements for your 
 civilization, to gain miracles, and to enhance your creature. The best addition to BW is the addition 
 of armies. You can now take over other villages by force. Also you can create epic battles with 
 enemy army. The traditional impressing of other villages to gain their favor has also changed. 
 Instead of impressing them with your godly powers, in BW2 you impress them by building up an impressive 
 city. Once you impress a village, they will leave that village to join yours. This is kind of a 
 problem, because although they have left their village, the village itself is not yours. You have 
 to capture it with your armies to control the village. This of course will be a problem for players 
 who wish to be a GOOD god, but for players who want to be an EVIL god this is a plus for them. 
 Building in the game is easier than the original. You no longer build a workshop the will build 
 crates for building other building which seems to be somewhat of a problem in the original. Now 
 you can choose what buildings you what to build, instead of placing crates in a certain place to 
 create a certain building. As for your creature, its seems a easier to control him in BW2. He has 
 more interaction and is quite smarter in BW2, depend on how you build his rights and wrongs. The 
 creature fighting is the game is no longer an interactive fight. You just click and there you go, 
 your creature will start fighting. You no longer click on body parts of your enemy creature to 
 tell your creature what to attack. Also learning miracles for your creature is easier this time 
 around. You use your tribute that you have gained to buy miracles that you want your creature to 
 have.
  The improvements, which some have already been mentioned, are tribute system, addition of a RTS 
 game style toolbar, a great definition of what is good and what is evil, graphics, creature interactivity, 
 impressing system, the epics battles, and the various added buildings.
  With such great improvements over the last Black and White, BW2 is starting to look like it will 
 give players that sense of fulfillment of being a mythological god that the original could not 
 provide.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordrook
Rating: 4.1
Date: Oct 11, 2005 5:21 pm PT
Review:  This looked like a really nice game. Nice graphics and sound going in and a very (overly) detailed 
 tutorial to get you going. Two things struck me after a few hours playing with the game. The controls 
 absolutely suck and there was very little "S" in this RTS game.
  I found using my mouse alone to navigate a 3D environment very frustrating and difficult to control. 
 I hated having to use the wheel button and I had a lot of trouble clicking on the objects I wanted 
 to manipulate. Your "giant hand of god" pointer is terribly inaccurate and has a nasty habit of 
 grabbing the wrong thing. Once the wrong thing is grabbed you have to "vigorously shake your mouse 
 from side to side" to release the object without setting it to some task. Give me arrow keys or 
 hotkeys any day.
  This is supposed to be an RTS right? Uhhh, no stats, no minimap, no real sense of what you are 
 supposed to do other than make sure your people have green happy faces in your town summary. I'm 
 sure it gets better once you spend a lot of time getting the feel of the game, but there wasn't 
 enough challenge early on to keep my interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rugger0211
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 11, 2005 4:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. At first it is kinda slow but trust me it will pick up. some things that 
 could be kicked out is that cancling system. when you pick something up that you didnt want you 
 must shake your hand constantly but you get the hang of it. And learning to manuver the land is 
 tricky but once again you get the hang of it. one more thing, warfare. Its ok, they could have 
 added more units and effects but its cool. some things that are awesome are, the creature. He is 
 awesome you can train him to do anything! You can make him kill or make him help you with your 
 glorious citys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScarfaceEvaStar
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 11, 2005 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I highly recommend playing this game, I've beaten it once and am on my second file I love it so 
 much, experimenting with good and evil in this one is so much better than the last. No other RTS 
 (real-time strategy) delivers on all accounts like Black & White 2. Some gmaes focus more on building 
 while others on war, with Black & White 2 you get everything. The downside to this game is the 
 long learning curve for some new gamers, a little kid I know tried to play it couldn't understand 
 how to build houses, as well as the time it takes for you to beat the game (if they could've stretched 
 it out a couple more levels it would've been game of the year) . With the minor flaws aside I have 
 to say this a superior RTS game, this coming from a old-school RTS player, also you need to keep 
 your eye on Civilization as well. Civilization is a great game as well but I doubt it could live 
 up to Black & White 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmo001
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2005 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Best game in the whole world so far and I thnak you Peter. M for making such a great game. I am 
 almost done the game and it has been so much fun and a bit chalenging but it it just made the game 
 even better to play. I like to crush those Japanise team in the game because they were killing 
 me but i still kik @ss. : ) I thing i did not like was that my com was not that good to run on 
 high resolution but it is still the bets thing ever. 
  
  That got worked out after i did a lil search throught the options menu and made it look great, 
 so if u think it looks crappy just go change ur video options in the optinons panel. 
  
  I have enjoyed it so much by far and i hope u will enjoy the game as well! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakster_91
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 11, 2005 9:01 am PT
Review:  WOW! This game is a complete twist to gaming! Sure, there are other real-time strategy games but 
 none having the imagination and creativity that this game has. Who would have thought that instead 
 of using trees just for wood to build things; that you could pick one up and start smashing away 
 at a door with it? There might be some ups and downs to this because it does become somewhat repetitive 
 after awhile; but none the less this game really is something new! Another thing thats great about 
 this game is how your thoughts are represented by the little devil and angel. Sometimes they can 
 really get quite funny. If youre up for a new way to play games with a hint of comedy this is 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xlaurynas
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2005 8:42 am PT
Review:  So, finally it came. Four years weve waited for this new game from Lionhead studios but why? Is 
 it worth to called sequel of best-selling Black & White? Or maybe weve wasted our time? Like Peter 
 Molineux always says the game are amazing and wonderful. But is this true?
  
  Intro. Youll back to the Eden but now not for family pray but Greeks will pray you to back in 
 Eden because Aztecs have destroyed them village and they want to destroy other nations. First youll 
 have to decide which creature to choose: ape, cow, lion or wolf. I think that in game course there 
 will be more creatures available. After then youll have short tutorial but it is not required 
 I thought. After it youll be throw out to empty field with town center with some followers and 
 your creature of course. So you have to build your city to supply your army or impress enemy people 
 to come from enemys city to yours. 
  
  City building and management. City building is very easy. You just have to select which building 
 you want to build then select scaffold and place it everywhere you want. Scaffolds can be taken 
 from city centre or from build menu. But there is one more way. If you have already existing building 
 you tap on it and drag wherever you want. After you build new structure youll extend your influence. 
 In game course youll unlock new buildings. I think that game developer could think about city 
 building because whatever way you turn (good or evil) youll must to build huge cities. That is 
 very big disadvantage of game. To build structure you can take a tree and supply it or you can 
 create builder disciple. First way is faster but second requires less work. Very good new is roads. 
 You can build them very easily like other structures. Just grab any existing road and then holding 
 you can twist it however you want. Other very good new is fields. In original fields was developed 
 with some mistakes. First they were very expensive and they gained very few food. Maybe now that 
 mistake will be fixed. Fields are created like roads you just grab existing fields and holding 
 it and you just have to make field on your own. Developers have invented new idea. From now you 
 can fertilize fields with creatures poo. I think its very funny idea.
  
  War. So you want to war. It is very simple first you have to build armory. Then you click on the 
 armory flag and decide how many soldiers will have battalion. To supply soldiers youll need food 
 to give them provisions and ore to give weapons. Then you select battalion and send him to war. 
 There was never been easier before. Amount of soldiers is countless in first missions hundred soldiers 
 will be very big army but later one thousand soldiers is just scouting platoon. So you can make 
 army thousands of soldiers. In war your soldiers gain experience and can handle better guns have 
 more health and make better damage.
  In game run youll be able to build new war machines such as trebuchets or rams. But in war you 
 dont need to have big army. You have to be smart and youll dont need big army. You can take
 
  Some rocks then put them on high mountain then fire them and when they roll they will crush enemys 
 army. 
  
  Your world. Your world will depend from your alignment. If you are good god then your world will 
 be green with flowers, beautiful gardens, fountains and much more. But if you are evil god then 
 your world will be dark gallows, your followers will be like zombies and disorder will reign everywhere. 
 Of course if you are evil and have that cit you wont impress other gods followers but then war 
 will be only way to dominate in all world.
  
  Creature. Now your creature is better helper in everywhere. You can command him to be builder, 
 warrior, gatherer, entertainer of give him free will. When your creature is builder he can build 
 whatever you want or if he (she) is well trained creature will build these building which your 
 followers requires most. When warrior creature will command your armies to war of he will go alone. 
 When your creatures fight head-to-head with other creature you can see amazing challenge. Your 
 creature can strike deadly stroke and defeat opponent. But your creature can be defeated too. But 
 he will respawn within 5 minutes. If youll select your creature to be gatherer he will gather 
 food from fields or trees from forests but about ore I dont know. And finally when on free will 
 hell do whatever he wants but then he will decide himself what to do. So he can be good or evil 
 without your choice. Like developers said creature will have impressive AI. So he will decide what 
 to do in various situations. 
  
  Miracles. Sequel cant be imagining without miracles which was very powerful tool in original. 
 From now miracles is separate into two parts: everyday and epic miracles. Everyday miracles are 
 wind, water, meteor, wind, air, fire, and lightning. But I miss food and wood miracles. Why developers 
 didnt include these miracles? Otherwise it makes game much harder and more interesting. And epic 
 miracles: volcano, earthquake and etc. .Everyday miracles can be cast in two ways. You can cast 
 them like before you just holding action button and move to direction where you want to cast it. 
 But there is another way you can throw your miracle and it will spread to all directions. 
  
  Graphics. Game graphics is totally improved. It is so amazing when you zoom out to stratosphere 
 and it is amazing when you zoom to the ground. On ground you can see ant life. From now world is 
 very detailed. Developers have invented so much new technologies such as distance hazing, dept 
 of field, made creatures fur much realistic. So maybe improve of graphics is best innovation in 
 game. Maybe its right or maybe not. Its your decision. Water is very amazing. When zoomed out 
 to stratosphere you can see shores. One more innovation is mountains. But one minus is that in 
 game could be fewer mountains because they hamper city development. One more good idea is opportunity 
 to change time of day. You just click on sky and turn pointer to time of day which you want. 
 
  
  Interface. From now is much easier to manipulate with your godly hand. It is much more detailed. 
 In game course youll be able to take not one but few objects in one time. All moving and turning 
 with your hand is so easily that you dont need to use keyboard. Like Peter Molineux said he developer 
 this game not for gamers but for these who dont play any games.
  
  Outro. So it came. And it will be one of best strategy of year. I think that Black & White 2 is 
 much better than Age of Empires III, Rome: Total War: Barbarian Invasion or other PC strategy games 
 which will come this year. So its enough time for waiting. Its time to play. No matter that game 
 didnt get very big ratings. But fans of this game will play it. Now we just have to wait other 
 games from Black and White series because game developers have blurt out that there will be 5 Black 
 & White games. Which will bring some big new to gaming world.
  
  Thank you for reading
  Laurynas Stashys
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cafnar
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2005 7:53 am PT
Review:  Realy this is one of the coolest game ever!!! I recomended for all people that want to be a GOD 
 or DEVIL to play it!!! Its fun and worth playing it.
  
  Lots of people said that this is one of the buggiest game ever. -Well i manage to locate 2 bugs.
 
  
  Still this game is one of the best game I ever played.
  The only thing that isnt so good is moving the hand. Its tricky!
  
  If you played Black & White 
 1 and now you will play this game you will noticed that this game is way way better than the 1st 
 one.
  
  Graphic is so cool too!
  
  Buy it and enjoy this wonderful game of being a god/evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Promhoma
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 11, 2005 7:28 am PT
Review:  The thing with Peter Molyneux, if you've ever watched an interview with him, is that he hypes his 
 games to be the next big 9-10/10 game. Whereas they usually fall flat on their face or deliver 
 a good but not close to what you were expecting products. This is most definitely the case in Black 
 and White 2, but thats not a bad thing mind you!
  
  With the last Black and White, we saw the seeds of a solid franchise being planted and although 
 the sequel may not feel like a huge step forward... they definitely took a few steps toward to 
 the final great product in possibly Black and White 3?
  
  The first thing that you'll notice most definitely is the graphics. You don't necessarily need 
 a beefy system to run the game but will when it comes down to max settings, which is the case with 
 any PC game. With it all on max your able to really see a beautiful handcrafted world with Ants 
 crawling in the grass, trees swaying in the wind, and some great bloom effects with the sun. They 
 really went all out and did a great job with the engine and bringing the world to life. Each character 
 model looks great and so does your pet. Shadows will form in the small crevices of your villagers 
 faces that aren't getting sunlight and there are also some great shadow effects while your pet 
 towers over the villagers and the town.
  
  The pet itself as well as the shadows may look nice but if you don't enjoy playing Tamagotchi then 
 you won't enjoy this game to an incredible amount. With all the talk of streamlining the interface 
 and whatnot, it would have been so much easier if they streamlined your pets AI. In the earlier 
 stages you pretty much have to baby it or else it'll go pooping on villagers, pooping in storehouses, 
 eating trees that in turn makes them throw up, and throwing villagers. Youre also in charge of 
 feeding it and making sure it doesn't go wild all over the place. While your micromanaging your 
 pet, your also in charge of keeping your villagers happy by building dwellings, making sure they 
 have enough food, enough sleep and free time or you could completely neglect them and take the 
 evil path. I don't know if it was just me but I keep going down the evil patch because my villagers 
 are idiots. Theirs a new feature in the game where your able to switch from night and day, so for 
 a few days I just decided to keep switching to the night, so my villagers could sleep and have 
 free time because they were complaining about having a lack of it so much. This in turn caused 
 my food storages to dwindle, which then made my villagers complain about not getting enough food. 
 So if leaving the day/night cycles on normal meaning approximately a half a day of work, and a 
 half a day of rest, how is that any different from todays society? I'm not going all philosophical 
 but it is very frustrating to not be able to find some kind of medium. With this problem and quite 
 a few other littler things, its pretty evident that there are balancing issues in Black and White 
 2.
  
  The new feature that Peter toted was the ability to now build your town and your own army which 
 would fight along with your pet when need be. This is a very cool feature to play with and to watch. 
 Its also very simple and doesn't require a ton of micromanaging to go from an army size of 0-100. 
 The same goes with the housing, if I needed to build another house I just click and drag and it 
 duplicates an already built house and then I just place it wherever. Similar mechanics are used 
 for the road and any building. The whole idea is very simple and I wish more RTS' would do it like 
 this.
  
  The battles themselves when they get under away are pretty much determined on size+experience beats 
 size-experience. Your soldiers will get better the more you fight but then again, expect to lose 
 a lot of them in one battle which kind of leaves the experience system flawed... 2 soldiers of 
 the level two and I'm not able to combine them with another platoon, so how much use am I going 
 to get out of them beyond having them disband or just letting them get destroyed by a full group 
 of the enemy... This however doesn't take away from some of the cool battles that take place with 
 your pet involved. You can have him pick up the enemy and throw it in to a pile of opposing forces, 
 and the aftermath with all the bodies and arrows everywhere looks very cool.
  
  The Music and sound are very good; you can hear your pet walking and the cries of battle from far 
 away, the wind rustling the leaves, all manner of bugs. Theirs a really good ambience in the game 
 and the music does a good job of complimenting that ambience. 
  
  It's definitely a good game but it doesn't do a whole lot to improve on the original formula, which 
 somehow seemed a bit flawed. The same annoying micromanaging, story drags, and in all honesty the 
 pet is just bothersome. However, updated, graphics, great battles, amazing simplified interface, 
 and great story and music make this a solid product that is an improvement over its predecessor.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slannmage
Rating: 6.1
Date: Oct 11, 2005 6:07 am PT
Review:  First off i've been looking forward to this game since Black and white, thinking what can they 
 do to improve? The game seems to miss out alot of features that made the original excellent and 
 brought in a new broken unfun system with lack of content!
  
  First off Tribute spending isn't as good as the old system which was belief! Able to buy everything 
 really ruins the fun for me :\
  
  The AI is horrible! The enemy never attacks you the way you want to, instead they send out a tiny 
 platoon and have them wait outside your city which your creature can tackle! The people are stupid 
 and so are your enemy.
  The creature finds it hard to attack the enemy properly and your or the enemies armys sometimes 
 just run in circles :\
  
  Being able to buy things for your creature and easily being able to tell him what to do takes out 
 the fun of the original where he learnt off you. Instead you buy him the stuff or just slide a 
 bar up and down saying you can do this!
  
  The creatures are smaller than the original and only 4 to chose from and 5 if you preordred or 
 have the CE (UK) They have missed out 2 creatures a Yeti and a gorilla which are still in the client 
 for modders but you can't use them at the same time as the ape : (
  
  The mini games have no point to them and you can kill migrants and just save one and you still 
 get all the rewards! Also you can nearly fail the mission and just save one and get rewwards which 
 seems dumb.
  
  Theres no content and no fun which alot of broken features. Seems like they've tried to do too 
 much and done a half arsed job of it!
  
  The balance between good and evil seems to be unfair with evil being the easy route to go down 
 and you find your self city building on a slow paced boring game most of the time!
  
  The tutorial seems to last most the game with little freedom and annoying good and evil helpers 
 talking to you when you just want to play! Out of 8 lands like 3/4 of them have no freedom and 
 seem to be tutorials that will last about 30 mins on each of them :\
  
  No multiplayer and skermish modes really hurt the game and give it little replayabilty and low 
 value for your money!
  
  They have left out alot of features which is a shame and the game could have been soo much more.
 
  
  
  The RTS side is poor, the God side is poor where you arn't even able to use miracles to kill your 
 own people so wheres the evil?
  
  
  All in all the game is one big mess that could have been sooo much better! The only plus notes 
 are the graphics are very nice indeed :)
  
  I say the learnign curve is 4+ hours because most the game is a tutorial : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cps
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 11, 2005 5:40 am PT
Review:  Learning from the mistakes of the past, in that with the original Black & White, they promised 
 more than they could deliver, Lionhead layed down a basis for the sequel... To which big guy Peter, 
 over there in the office, the 'mastermind' behind the game, kept on adding layers and layers, concepts 
 and promises, to excite the gaming world. 
  
  The question was always going to be, as it was with the original, can they pull it off, can they 
 deliver without any screw ups this time? Now that was the grim reality, which was a shame, as it 
 really came through in the reviews, instead of judging it as a stand-alone game (which it deserved) . 
 But it does come down to that question. Did they deliver the goods - Did they screw it up? 
  
  Now, they certainly delivered. Black & White 2 is a brilliant game (we'll get to that in a 
 short moment) . But, you'd think after all this time, they'd be able to fix the those little annoying 
 problems, which plagued the original, for todays standards. Now, while they did improve the gameplay, 
 and genrally followed the guidelines set up by gamer's complaints of the first Black & White. There 
 are still those little nagging issues, which they should've addressed. 
  
  It sort of reminded me of The Sims (with so many glitches as each expansion came by) - and then 
 The Sims 2, which had exactly the same. Black & White 2, has nearly the same glitches, and all 
 that shouldn't really crop up. But it really comes down to your computer standards, but no matter 
 what spec you have and how far you think you can take it, there will be issues. Then, there are 
 those other little things... Perhaps one of the biggest promises, was based on the biggest complaint 
 of the original, was to be able to skip those obnoxious tutorials at the beginning! (I think if 
 we can move the camera left, then we'll be able to move it right THANK YOU!) . 
  
  It took them two days after release to realise 'oops, we must have forgot about that!' - and so 
 - Patch no. 1. 
  
  I have layed the cards on the table, and that serious moment is done with, because after that, 
 it's all good! 
  
  I usually like to stick to the Attribute list, as a guideline for a review, on Gamespot, it's easier 
 to read, and really dissect the game for it's values and faults: 
  (And anyway, you already know what the game has to offer, we're here to look at how it performs!) .
 
  
  Gameplay - Ok, I admit, Peter (you know, that guy that won't shut up on the video previews) , did 
 deliver his promises. The gameplay is remarkably simple, and it really is bemusing (yes, I used 
 that word, say it again in your head 'bemusing') that they thought it necessary to add such a patronizing 
 tutorial, for such simple mechanics. Basically, you move the mouse, you click a lot, and thats 
 about it. You hold LMB over a road, for instance, drag slightly away, and draw up where you want 
 the road to continue. Just click on a house, and you've got another foundation. It all goes against 
 the traditional formula of any RTS game, so you gotta remember, this isn't one! (So those who thought 
 it was, bugger off... but still get the game, you'll like it!) . 
  
  But not only interface and procedure, The whole engine is built specifically for your simple touch. 
 Whether you're training your creature, or taking a massive army over to the enemy, there's always 
 the most accesible... erm... access (lol) , available.
  
  Graphics - I had my settings on 'high' (for a while) , and the worlds, details and textures, were 
 amazing, and I had no slowdown whatsoever! The Creatures are amazing, the oceans look like they 
 should be a sin to see, and the worlds varied, and have no quality distortion whether you're zoomed 
 out, above the clouds, or in, to the tiniest insects on the ground. The sense of scale, and epic 
 proportions is a real achievement. 
  
  Sound - The main thing you'll be hearing, is general ambience, or your creature doing something 
 and stomping around. The music varies from peaceful serenity (while you build) , or military ambush 
 (while you deal with your troops) . But in other moments, you could hear the most dramatic, epic 
 music, or mythical intrigue. While there were some things missing, mainly any noise from your villagers. 
 While you may hear the odd sentence, or if you're evil, screaming, but I expect at least some kind 
 of crowd noise as they grow in their numbers. 
  
  Value - While the game doesn't have too many levels on offer, and lacks any multiplayer/online 
 modes (which surprised me, considering the original did, and this one would've worked much better 
 with the new gameplay possibilities) , there's definately replay value, as you can choose three 
 paths, of good, evil and nuetral (which would be the most boring of the three... so mainly, two 
 options (laughs) . But, also, as it stands as a unique game, there's appeal to return as the god 
 of Eden.
  
  Tilt / Final note - Black & White 2 met my expectations, and went beyond, but not too far, which 
 is a shame, because you'd think after all these years... oh anyway, it stands as a real contender 
 for 'game of the year' in my books, and is definately worthy for your shelf, or rack... or whatever...
 
  
  It is out on the shelves now, so go buy it (NOW, so there'll be Black & White 3... Which I really 
 want! ; ) ) .
  
  Best,
  CPS
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakeam
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 11, 2005 5:38 am PT
Review:  i wont review it much, because alot of reviews already out there, i just want to make a point, 
 the EPIC miracles are very nice, BUT, they are Worthless, u cant use it outside ur influance, whats 
 the point of them if i can only use them on my city?, and i even got my influance to reach the 
 enemy's city, but i couldnt do any miracles in his influanceRed line, again, how come he 
 can do EPIC miracles outside his influance while i cant?, there goes the use of EPIC miracles, 
 infact all miracles,, second thing is, the Creature is STUPID, how hard is to smash a wall? , why 
 do i suffer just to make it understand?, CLICK, ATTACK, but it stops there wondering, .. god, made 
 me go crazy,, third, when u try to pick stuff up, u inmistake sometime pick up a road, and it will 
 try and constructe a road for you, well, thats a mistake, i try to shake my hand to remove it, 
 but that didnt help much, its stupid to NOT include a short cut to remove what u are doing in ur 
 hand, instead of stupid shaking, that never works, and one more thing, if u create an army, u use 
 most of ur men, ok.. now i got a ratio of 2men/250 women,,, do u expect me to wait for more men 
 to grow???, why isnt this balanced, why cant women join the platoons and FIGHT?, they do in real 
 world , what will i do with all those women? no men, no babies... even if there are 5K women, last 
 thing, i could NEVER get my influance to be so great, NEVER, what i did was building storage houses 
 till the enemy's walls and start fireball on him.. how simple is that? hehe, i still like the game 
 though, i loved the graphics, and the sounds,,,, oh,, one thing,, howcome i can access silver scrolls 
 outside my influance? and some silver scrolls wont appear till i capture a city?, whats the main 
 idea here?, why the sound fades when i scroll out of the city? the music was so nice, but the mood 
 broke because of that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rybry
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 11, 2005 4:41 am PT
Review:  Black and white one was amazing, period. 2 promises the same experiance and more, but really dosnt 
 deliver. But what is does deliver on, is another new experiance for gamers. 
  At the start of the game there is one major difference from the first title, the graphics. They 
 are stuning, and beautiful. You can zoom as far as you want inwords, and as much outwords, there 
 are even ants on the ground to watch.
  The gameplay has been changed a lot though. From the start it feels like a civ game or any other 
 rts city game. Though the graphics are better, the gameplay lacks depth. Now you can even see what 
 your creture is thinkning, where it was a joy in a way in the first game to train him by his actions 
 instead of going into a menue bar and choosing what to teach him. Also he wont grow half as big 
 as he did in the first game, witch disapointed me, but now you can give him muscles or at, and 
 you can almost micromanige all of his desires and trates. Another aspect of the game taken out 
 is the skirmishes, now you have to sit there feeling like an idiot as the to characters good and 
 evil hold your hand through each island. You will also solve small and large objectives through 
 the game like the first witch add another level of depth and fun to black and white 2.
  The sound is amazing, its very well done, and it adds a lot to the experiance.
  The sound effects 
 are also well done but at times a want to rib off my headphones because there a stupid buzzing 
 bee track in the game.
  in the end i loved it. It may not be B&W 1 with better graphics, but really if you wanted that 
 game its not broken, so play it, or you can play another game, like B&W 2 almost the same, but 
 different in many ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knowledgewizard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2005 3:26 am PT
Review:  The first thing that struck me to buy the game was the impressive videos featured week after week 
 as the release date drew closer. Finally when the game was out several reviews gave it mediocre 
 to average ratings. It did give a certain extent of doubt when deciding to buy. Lo and behold I 
 have not been disappointed with the game as far as I've played it. 
  
  The gameplay is simply fantastic with intuitive gameplay; because as a god you can do anything 
 and everything you want in the world of Eden. Building your city has never been easier as you can 
 pick up blueprints of buildings and lay it down just like that. The AI is great as you don't have 
 to command your people like most Sim games. Another very interesting factor of Black & White 2 
 is its amazing physics engine; crack rocks at the touch of your hand, sway grass and trees as you 
 brush your hand over the land, cause water to ripple and these are just some of the things you 
 can do as god in this game. The miracles available to you this game adds a very nice touch, because 
 as god you got to have a divine inventory at your disposal! Fire, water, shield and meteors are 
 just some of them. Of course Black & White 2 has the Creature, a very interesting pet and feature 
 in the game, it does your bidding or at its free will which gives you an almost limitless control 
 on how you want to bend your alignment to (good or evil) .
  
  Graphically, the game is amazing. The sunsets are extremely beautiful as you see the reflections 
 cast on the sea and shadows cast by the mountains. Fur looks great and the grass too as it receives 
 shadows as an added level of realism. Simply surreal. Simply everything in this game looks fantastic.
 
  
  Sound-wise, it is believably good. Everything in the world emits a sound even as you move from 
 the very level of your people to the atmosphere. The sound simply makes you feel godly. You know 
 your position as a god with the amazing sound in this game.
  
  There is however one complaint most gamers might have; which is the amount of time needed to complete 
 an island. Game sessions may stretch to up to 6 hours which may tire gamers. This is in my experience 
 though, other gamers might play it differently. 
  
  Overall, the game has a lot of freedom granted since you're a god over Eden and that there is no 
 wrong alignment of which when you play the game. Play good and people will see you as a good god 
 and migrate over and play evil you conquer lands through your brutal and ruthless way. The game 
 is entirely in your control. A game worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: losthobo85
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2005 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  Black & White 2 at first glance is a gorgeous game second to none in graphical detail. One noticable 
 graphical feature is the fur on your creature. As the wind picks up its fur would sway with the 
 currents. When it rains its fur would sag with the weight of the water pulling down on it. But 
 these amazing graphics starts to show its price, as frame rates would slow down to an unbearable 
 rate during latter islands.
  
  Sound:
  The sound and music is as exquisite as you would expect from a Lionhead Studios game would be.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  The game is still about being a 'Good' god or an 'Evil' god and winning the island that you are 
 on. But the choices on what is good and what is evil has changed somewhat from the previous game. 
 To be a good god and win, you'll no longer have to focus on conquering individual towns by impressing 
 them with your powers, creature, or artifacts but rather you use your main city to impress them. 
 The grander your city is the more impression points you will recieve. Once you reach a certain 
 amount people from other towns will start to migrate to your city and become incorporated into 
 your city if you let them. But as the game progress you'll inevitably either build alot of buildings 
 with high impression rating or just give up and send out your army to conquer the other cities. 
 Conquering cities will, however, turn your rating to that of evil. Although the game does give 
 you a choice in what path you take in winning the map, it gives you no choice in how you finish 
 your side quests (Silver Scroll quests) . You either follow the directions that the quest gives 
 you or you fail to recieve the tribute points they give you as a reward. These tribute points are 
 very much necessary in being able to obtain new buildings, miracles, and abilities. So it forces 
 you to go on a closed path, giving you no choices. The Creature is almost the same as in the old 
 game but there was a couple of changes. The list of creatures you can choose from has also shrank 
 down to just the tiger (if you pre-ordered) , lion, monkey, cow, and wolf. The difference in creatures 
 only seems to be superficial as attributes no longer matter how well your creature do in certain 
 areas. For instance, you no longer need a high intellegence creature to learn spells faster because 
 your creature can only learn spells by you buying it from a limited list of spells with your tribute 
 points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMagicFro
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 10, 2005 9:55 pm PT
Review:  When I bought the game I was sceptical, since I was scared off by the difficulty of the first game. 
 But when I played it, it was simply fun. I felt like a god, I cared about my people, and my creature, 
 and I felt bad if I did bad things to them ( I was good first time around.) To me my people and 
 creature felt like a puppy, I was the only thing protecting and caring for them, I wanted to make 
 them happy but some times that ment I had to do bad things to make them happy. So really the came 
 is a morral dellima. The game features them selves were a bit of a let down, Theres a lot that 
 was in the first game thats gone now (But not for good, Nothing a patch or expanshion can't fix) 
 and the game was rather short. Also there is no multiplayer or skrimish mode. And you don't go 
 up against other gods, But like I said earlyer it'll all be fixed in an expanshion pack. All in 
 all the good parts of the game outweigh the bad parts of this game, So don't belive the reviwes 
 from IGN or Gamespot or were ever, this game is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atlas120
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 10, 2005 7:25 pm PT
Review:  By far Black & White 2 is the most beautiful game I've played in the past couple of months. Beautiful 
 not jsut meaning the great scenery and great visual effects. I love how on bad days I can be evil 
 and on good days I can make everything look like paradise. This game is much better then the last 
 one.
  
  The first thing I enjoyed was how easy it was to make a city. Just click and drag. I had a metropolis 
 running in no time with many city already impressed and on thier way to join mine. I was able to 
 get the villagers gather food, ore, and wood fast enough that I could focus on the main thing I 
 think of when I think "Black & White", my creature. 
  
  The one thing I've always wanted to do was make my creature as tall as a mountain. In the old Black 
 and White I was so focused on my city that my creature never reallly grew. This time though I was 
 able to get it just right to be able to focus on making him big and strong. Although in the end 
 I didn't focus on him enough to make him as big as some of the creatures I've seen, I did make 
 him tall enough and strong enough to rip down walls quickly. I was also able to bend him to be 
 very good or very evil in whichever way I pleased.
  
  There are so many good things but I would jsut like to point out a couple of bad things first. 
 I found the lack of multiplayer or skirmish moods disappointing. I figured it would have been fun 
 battling other player armies and an intelligent player. I also found the lack of open ended gameplay 
 after you won the land disapointing... I want some invading pirates or something to give me something 
 extra to do! Also I thought the AI could have been alittle harder. It's easy to just beat down 
 an enemy creature and a platoon with a well trained pet. Plus I think it would be nice if the creature 
 would use more lightnign and fireballs when you ask it to attack a building.
  
  That's all I got for ya... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImDrFreak
Rating: 5.4
Date: Oct 10, 2005 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I love the Black and White concept, but it looks like number two suffers the same issues as #1 
 - Unplayably buggy. (this is for the game WITH the recent 1.1 patch)
  
  I spent the first two maps (the "tutorial" maps) just fine. I got through them in a couple of hours. 
 Then I got to the first map against an enemy - the Norse. 
  
  total time on the map so far? - thirty nine hours. that's not total time - that's PLAY TIME on 
 the same map.
  
  Major problems:
  
  1. The enemy can go THROUGH walls. 
  They go to a wall, stand there a few minutes, then manage to somehow go THROUGH the wall - Norse 
 osmosis! This has happened no less than 19 times that I've been able to actually count.
  
  2. My army gets stuck.
  My army goes next to a mountain to fight the enemy, and twice now, they've 
 gotten there, and then won't move. No matter where I click, No matter how many nearby structures 
 I demolish - They just won't move. I have to re-load.
  
  3. the enemy sometimes circles my town center to capture it, but more often ends up somehow INSIDE 
 it (clipping) . This means neither my creature nor my archers can get to them.
  
  4. If I build a wall around a city which is very close to an enemy city wall - The enemy wall-mounted 
 archers will shoot at mine, but mine won't shoot at theirs.
  
  
  Nitpicks: 
  
  1. The inability to destroy towns.
  I can take over a town, and I can raze all the buildings, 
 but... I don't WANT a lot of these towns. I don't want to have to deal with micromanagement of 
 eight or nine towns. I want the evil points by taking over towns, then I want to completely destroy 
 them - INCLUDING the town center. Unfortuantely I can't. This means that I have an influence circle 
 up at all times for a dead "town". This means that any time an army walks through the area, I get 
 the annoying alarm, and that conscience devil screaming at me that my "people are getting wasted."
 
  
  2. Someone desperately needs to SHUT THE ENEMY GOD UP. It's this ever-present voice screaming angry 
 threats at you CONSTANTLY. It's amusing for five minutes, then chalkboard-scratchingly annoying 
 after that.
  
  -------
  
  This is all added onto a myriad of installation issues including 37 CRC errors (no, the disks are 
 NOT bad.) and C++ runtime errors initially when starting - for which I had to download Bink tools 
 to fix it.
  
  This is unfortunately the worst experience yet that I personally had with a new release. 
  
 
  That's not all, but it's all I can remember off the top of my head. I'll shelve the game and come 
 back in three or four patches. Looking forward to The Movies - but I may cancel my pre-order and 
 wait for a few patches for that as well.
  
  Here's hoping that these issues are resolved soon. I'll be keeping my eye on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Munkyman587
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2005 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing MMORPG's for the past two years, and decided to take a break for this game 
 since I loved the first game so much. I think this game is good, but I think that it has too many 
 problems to get a perfect score with me. I personally have a glitch in the sound, but I have been 
 hearing people complain of crash-to-desktop errors and graphical issues that apparently are being 
 fixed with patches. Too bad the patches are not compatible with old game saves, making all progress 
 useless = ( A new system of buying different houses through the accumulation of inspiration points 
 is pretty cool, but can get old when it takes hours of work for a wonder or some other large building. 
 Another issue is how tight the resources are such as ore... which there never seems to be enough 
 of... so you spend hours watching your followers randomly walk around looking for ore to add to 
 the bin while they all complain about it in your town center... over and over and over (I think 
 you get the idea) . The maps are also set up so it is difficult to throw items to other towns or 
 have a short time with your hand out of your influence... so you have to make your perfect little 
 city that either preps for war (and you wait for men to be born and raised, then they have to walk 
 to a gather point) or you try to plant trees in your city and give them everything they desire 
 while they yell at you that they are not farming enough to eat. The graphics are quite impressive 
 though (If you are lucjy enough to not have a glitch) and for me, the sound is terrible due to 
 some glitch that I might just end up reinstalling the game for. It may seem like I am bashing the 
 game a bit, but I have mainly listed some of the things currently bothering me about it. I think 
 it is a fun game to mess around with, but you must have a good chunk of time to play it. The game 
 handles pretty well itself, but I guess I just miss the old one = / To each his own though = ) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eckozero
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 10, 2005 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Ok so I will admit that I was disappointed with the 1st Black and white. wonderful ideas but too 
 meny bugs and game play was iffy. But the guys at lion head truely deserve some credit for the 
 work they did on BW 2.
  They covered all the issues of the last BW and added amazing new ideas that WORK! There truely 
 is some thing for every one in BW2.
  If you like to micro manage then winning as good is for you. Like the tatics and battles of RTS's 
 then evil is for you. The list goes on. Congrats to the developers, you won me back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scaper-X
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 10, 2005 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Having played Black & White 1 and finding it unplayable due to poorly defined controls, an utter 
 lack of in-game statistics, and an ever-present demand for the player to be at a half-dozen map 
 locations at once, I was very much concerned about this sequel. However, I wanted to forgive Lionhead 
 Studios; the concept of the series is both ambitious and appealing. So I did my homework, researching 
 the game and its upgrades above its black sheep of a older brother. Molyneux spoke candidly in 
 his GameSpot video interviews, admitting that there were half-baked game concepts and promising 
 that the bad would be dropped and the decent would be improved. He was right.
  
  Black & White 2 is one of those few titles that strive to offer the player almost no immersiveness-breaking 
 toolbars and succeeds in doing so (unlike Black & White 1) . While there is a toolbar available 
 in the game, Lionhead Studios made an effort to allow the player ways around calling up the slightly 
 cluttered toolbar. However, while this was a major improvement over the first, the sequel did repeat 
 a number of its control flaws. "Throwing" items is still not an exact science. "Scrubbing" and 
 "hand casting" miracles is, at best, difficult and poorly described. The manual (which is but a 
 fraction of the size of the first game's) is of little help in these matters, merely repeating 
 what the in-game help offers. A number of game functions and controls have to be self-taught. 
 
  
  However, if you're able to look past some manual interface issues, the game is vibrant, a guilty 
 pleasure, and highly addictive. I don't feel I need to expand on the positives as the videos and 
 other reviews do it justice. Perhaps the control issues and remaining interface woes will be fixed 
 in a patch... or Black & White 3.
  -- Scaper-X 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nico230383
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 10, 2005 1:13 pm PT
Review:  The city building aspect of the game is great, you can create huge cities wich look amazing. The 
 creature hasn't changed alot compared to the original game except the graphical look of it of course. 
 The Creature A. I is not as good as i hoped for, alot of flaws come straight from the original game 
 . Sometimes the creature just stands still and does nothing while you keep trying to make him do 
 something. You can teach your creature with ease now but he keeps changing his mind way to often, 
 for example, when you want him to pick up a tree, he would go to that tree and on his way he would 
 think about playing with his toy, so instead he goes to his toy. On his way to the toy he might 
 decide he wants to get grain from the field so he drops the idea of playing with his toy and moves 
 to the field. This can be a pain in the ass sometimes when you want your creature to help you build 
 your city or defend it. Another problem is that the creature cant get everywhere. When you build 
 a house somewhere nect to some other buildings, your creature can get blocked and you have to destroy 
 that building to let him pass.
  
  There are also many good things about the game, like the graphics wich are really amazing. The 
 city building part is great as you get many different buildings for your city. It is now easyer 
 to play as a good or bad god than in the previous game since you can purchase buildings that are 
 good or evil.
  
  One more thing i don't like about the game is that your influence ring from the previous game will 
 not expand as you gain more believe. in fact there is no believe anymore, it has been replaced 
 by tribute points wich let you buy things. The influence ring is still there but can only expand 
 a litte when building impressive buildings. This is what really irritates me because in the previous 
 game you could "cheat" a little by gaining so much influence that you could perform actions inside 
 a neutral town.
  
  Overall the game has it's flaws but in the end it's a solid game, it isn't what i expected it to 
 be but it's worth the money in the end.
  
  One last bit of advice for RTS lovers planning on buying this game for the RTS part : don't do 
 it, there are only 3 units you can use for your army and you can only create an army with the men 
 in your town. Most of the time your population is below 300 so the amount of men would be 100. 
 If they get killed you have to wait for hours to get more men... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rburnett123
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 10, 2005 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest, I completed the first true "level" of the game and won't play it again. If you 
 are looking for a review by somebody who has completed the game, stop now. If you want an honest 
 assessment by somebody not blown over by the "charm" the game offers, read on.
  
  I played the original Black & White for a week. Like many, I was initially enthralled and very 
 addicted. After that "honeymoon phase", the original became boring and pointless -- it was merely 
 a neat sandbox. With that in mind, I am looking at Black & White 2 from a RTS perspective. Armies, 
 resources, city building -- its an RTS.
  
  The focus on B&W 2 is to conquer all of the cities each level. You can perform this actively by 
 using armies or passively by increasing your influence (i. e. buildng the same buildings over and 
 over and over...) . I initially tried the passive approach and to be "good". After 4 hours on the 
 same level, I realized the passive approach really was about creating top level structures such 
 as a Temple repeatedly. Since I found this to be stupid, I tried the military approach...
  
  Armies in B&W 2 seem to have been designed as an afterthought. There is an experience system 
 to allow your armies to achieve veteran status but there is no mechanism for repleneshing a platoon. 
 Even the heal miracle will not regenerate dead members of the platoon. What does this mean? Only 
 a range platoon that is never engaged in melee has a chance of achieve an elite status.
  
  The other big issue with army battles is the absolutely horrid AI by the computer. The enemy army 
 path is scripted and will regenerate and keep going to the same spot unless blocked by walls. "A 
 ha!", you say -- so setup archers on the walls and farm experience? Well... sorta. There is also 
 a neat bug that allows enemy armies to walk right through your walls if they are trying to get 
 to a gap further inside your defenses. This is a horrible bug and I am amazed it got through their 
 bug testing.
  
  Besides the graphics, the only thing I found appealing with B&W 2 was the pet. Being able to really 
 train your pet finally was a godsend and I had fun for a few hours teaching and tailoring my pet's 
 reactions. Unfortunately, the pet was not enough and with poor AI and horrible army system, there 
 has not been much improvement over the original B&W.
  
  Bottom line: Yet another sandbox. Stay clear if you are looking for a challenging RTS. The only 
 challenge here is not falling asleep!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 10, 2005 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Having not been a fan of Black and White 1, I almost didn't pick up BW2. But after watching the 
 video preview and the On the Spot demo, I decided I might be missing out. I was, because BW2 takes 
 city building and RTS types of gameplay to whole new levels. BW1 was over complicated and slow 
 moving, BW2 fixes the series overcomplicated nature and speeds up the gameplay (although not much) . 
 
  
  Pros: I really like the 'city center' type building that gives you town information by way of visuals 
 (example: If your people need food, a statue symbolizing food appears and grows upward with increasing 
 demand) . Also the menus are very simple and fun to use. The AI creature is entertaining to watch 
 and train as it grows into a War Machine or a Hippie. The city building aspect is fun and easy, 
 but has it's problems (see cons) . Massing an army is very easy, but moving that army where you 
 want it is sometimes a pain. Luckly the enemy AI is really stupid sometimes, giving you alittle 
 longer to mass troops and send them into battle. The control style is really fresh and different 
 from other RTS games, but sometimes make small tasks very difficult. The graphics are AWESOME, 
 but you need a good computer to avoid choppiness. The story, and especially your helpers (Angel 
 and Devil) , are serious yet light hearted. This gives the game an Epic, yet not over baering tone. 
 Also, Lionhead really likes the Good vs. Evil approach in their games (like Fable) which I really 
 enjoy, and definantly adds tones of re-play value (I've played Fable like 20 times start to finish, 
 I think BW2 could have the same re-play potential) . All and all, BW2 is more Pros then Cons.
  
  Cons: Even though the control style is fresh and different in a good way, some aspects of it 
 really are aggrivating. I don't like having to pick-up individual banners for every squad, and 
 having to go back and forth to move multiple squads. The hand cursor, allowing you to pick things 
 up, is great..... But... having to click and drag everytime you want to just move the camera is 
 stupid and wastes lots of time in my opinion. I find myself zooming out the camera, moving the 
 cursor, and zooming back in to move the camera. This is not very practical for small camera moves, 
 but is much easier on my frustration/anger level then the click and drag technique (which is in 
 no way an accurate means of camera travel) . Another aspect I don't like about the controls, is 
 your creature's leash. The leash is a annoying way to move your beast. Also, sometimes you can't 
 get the hand to slap the creature fast enough, letting him do unspeakable thing to your towns folk 
 before you can catch him. Plus the creature has a very annoying habbit of wanting to crap on everything. 
 Bottom line, all of BW2's problems lie in controls. If your the kind of person who likes accuracey, 
 BW2 is not for you.
  
  Add ons, improvements, and changes I hope to see in next installment:
  1. More creatures to choose 
 from, or a way to somehow personallize them (fur color, eye color, accessories, and so on) .
  
  2. Online gameplay of some kind, something innovative is to be found in a online city building, 
 pet keeping, RTS game.
  
  3. A more simple, easy to use, and accurate control style similar to classic RTS controls. Still 
 use the hand, just don't make me click and drag to move ANY MORE!!!!
  
  4. Being able to move more people at one time, and get rid of squad banners. Squad banners are 
 a really annoying way to move troops, and makes it almost harder to be the bad guy. An aspect that 
 should be evened out.
  
  5. A new gameplay mechanic that senses your playing style and accomidates. For example, if you 
 like to play at a slower pace and build rather then fight, the computer would slow down gameplay 
 to make the experience more to your style. Or, if your a God of War the game would speed up, getting 
 rid of the sometimes slow gameplay.
  
  6. For city building, I wish you were offered the oppertunaty to build on more of a grid. I like 
 buildings that line up, and streets that are straight (I'm almost obsessive) . I imagine some enjoy 
 the more free-form style of city building, thats why the grid should be an option and not set in 
 stone.
  
  7. And last, but definantly important. A new AI, cause in BW2 sometimes the computer is so dumb 
 you can't believe it. A new AI that allows you to set difficulties would improve the game 200%
 
  
  Final Word: If your a fan of fantasy, and don't mind learning something new and different (at the 
 cost of aggrivastion) then BW2 is definantly the game for you. Just try not to get angry to often 
 and take it for what it is, a very innovative "game".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corpand
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 10, 2005 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Where do I begin? The original Black & White was a game which involved the player into the game 
 and made them feel like they were part of the world, building, morphing and destroying anything 
 in their path. It was met with some criticism but was an outstanding game overall. 
  
  Here comes Black & White 2, a sequel which was supposed to raise the bar on gaming by a huge level 
 and was supposed to display things never before seen in computer games. It was supposed to achieve 
 such a level of greatness that players would be engrossed into the game for months to come. Sadly, 
 this would have to be another game other than B&W2 because even though it has some amazing aspects 
 to it, it just de-complicated the gameplay and erases the fun aspect from the original. 
  
  Dont think Im saying the game is horrible because is not. Its just not what many people were expecting 
 due to its toned-down gameplay and improvements. Some are nice, some are bad, and some are downright 
 useless. The game feels MUCH more linear compared to the original and this destroys alot of atmosphere 
 that the game could have had.
  
  Still, its graphically stunning and has some amazing sound but the core gameplay is more linear 
 and such.
  
  The game is defenately worth a buy, but if youve never experienced the B&W franchise before, I 
 suggest you start off with playing the first B&W and see how you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladerunner666
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 10, 2005 11:31 am PT
Review:  This is truly an improvement over BW1. The engine behind this game is amazing. The visual detail 
 is stunning at times. The painstaking animations are apparent at all levels. When you build your 
 first amphitheatre and watch it in action with a full crowd, you can't help but be impressed.
 
  
  Occasional random bugs and music that cuts out brings the game score down a bit but overall it's 
 a must buy.
  
  The potential with this engine and franchise is awesome. Let's hope that Lionhead continues to 
 forge ahead with immersive titles like this one. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
