-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Black Dahlia
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/blackdahlia/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 14, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 7.3, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 88 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Genre: Interactive Movie
Date:     Feb 28, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
What begins as an interesting tale of conspiracy and murder ends up a confused and confusing gore 
 fest of the not-so-supernatural. 

 Take 2's track record in the adventure game genre has been shaky, to say the least. First there 
 was the overhyped and disappointing Hell: A Cyberpunk Thriller, which was followed by the just-plain-terrible 
 Bureau 13, and then by the nearly good Ripper. The last game was a major step forward for the company 
 - while it still emphasized Hollywood production values (the big commercial push was the fact that 
 Christopher Walken starred in it) , it actually had bona fide puzzles. The latest offering from 
 the company, Black Dahlia, is yet another step in the right direction; there are some interesting 
 design decisions, a few good puzzles, and some amazing technology. But every positive aspect of 
 Black Dahlia is outweighed by a negative, and what begins as an interesting tale of conspiracy 
 and murder ends up a confused and confusing gore fest of the not-so-supernatural.  

 Black Dahlia loosely deals with the true-life murder of Elizabeth Short, an aspiring actress found 
 brutally murdered in Los Angeles in the mid-1940s. Short's obsession with the color black led newspapers 
 at the time to dub her the Black Dahlia. Though the game takes its title from this famously unsolved 
 case, it only touches on the murder, which is simply one minor plot point in a sprawling tale of 
 a Teutonic order trying to lay its hands on a magical gem called, coincidentally enough, the Black 
 Dahlia.   

 The game does an interesting job of tying historical fact to its own fiction. The Cleveland "Torso 
 Killer" of the early '40s plays a part, as does the FBI, the Untouchable Elliot Ness, and almost 
 the whole of the Nazi Party. You take on the role of Jim Pearson, a COI operative investigating 
 possible Nazi conspirators in Cleveland. Your investigation leads you to a much deeper mystery, 
 and you must enlist the aid of your predecessor (played by Dennis Hopper in a minor role) , who 
 everyone thinks has gone mad because of his obsession with the supernatural. Up until this point, 
 the game is quite fascinating. The puzzles, while sometimes requiring great leaps of logic, are 
 solid and seem like an actual part of the story. But once everything starts to come together storywise, 
 everything falls apart in the game.  

 First, the story just goes wild and stops making any sense. Your character is plagued by nightmares 
 that start invading his daily life in some of the least impressive horror scenes since Phantasmagoria: 
 A Puzzle of Flesh. The connections between the various divergent elements are all but wrapped up 
 halfway through the game, and you spend the rest of your time simply tracking down the gem in a 
 variety of locales. That is until the final sequence, which not only has little to do with everything 
 that led up to it, but is also a relatively inane and obvious "homage" to the finale of Raiders 
 of the Lost Ark.   

 And if lamenting the demise of a promising story weren't enough, you're faced with some boilerplate 
 puzzles for which the phrase "tacked-on" would be a compliment. After the first act of Black Dahlia, 
 there are only three real puzzle types: jigsaw puzzles, lever-moving puzzles, and slider puzzles. 
 There are a few interesting and challenging puzzles scattered about, but the preponderance of "secret 
 door locks" just becomes ridiculous. At one point, you must solve two of these in a row. The game 
 then jumps a few years into the future. You're immediately faced with three more. It's almost as 
 if Agent Pearson has been promoted to "director of slider puzzle operations."  

 What makes all of this nonsense more disappointing is that the technology in the game is really 
 good. It uses sort of a "node" system (similar to Zork Nemesis) in which you move from one predetermined 
 location to the next, and in these places you can look in any direction. The graphics are nicely 
 rendered and the integration of video with pre-rendered backgrounds in the exploration sequences 
 is really impressive.  

 Adventure gamers who don't mind puzzles that are rote and unrelated to the story will probably enjoy 
 the bulk of Black Dahlia. The technology is nice, the story is interesting for a while, and the 
 game is relatively long. But those longing for the days when puzzles were actually a part of the 
 story will probably find Black Dahlia to be just another pretty romp through a bunch of unrelated 
 locales.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ancarius
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  The genre of mystery, adventure and point-n-click have been a landmark for gaming from the '80s 
 and all the way through the '90s. We can all remember what The Monkey Island series has brought 
 to us and how interesting the Gabriel Knight trilogy proved to be. Now the entire concept of "Interactive 
 Movie" games is the adition of something more real to the scene. This has been wonderfully achieved 
 in Black Dahlia. A thrilling tail of a misterious dream world intertwined with reality in a lavish 
 '30s setting.
  
  After playing the game for hours at end with no walkthroughs just biding my time trying to uncover 
 the mistery, solving puzzles to no end the game had me preoccupied for some time. If the nothing 
 else then the in-game music or the melancoly of the old school interlaced videos don't get to you 
 then nothing will. The characters are uncanning if sometimes even unsettling as you meet various.... somewhat 
 (to my observation) mentally unsound people in the game from a highly cafinated police officer 
 to the press-n-dress FBI official right down to the muggs that get in your way.
  
  Now as to the downside of the game what really had me ticked was the repetition. After a few hours 
 of playing you seem to end up in the same places trying to rethink your steps just to get past 
 one puzzle. After a while you just get tired of the same thing and need a break but where? The 
 somewhat prematurely released game, and would you believe it, has a lot of bugs that slows you 
 down even more and if you believe that some misteries are best left unsolved, this is deffinitly 
 the game for you. As for me, I think I'm gonna stick to something more surreal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pashitos
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I am so angry with the review at gamespot. I mean, I can quote a lot of stuff from the review and 
 prove it wrong, but I am going to do only one:
  
  Adventure gamers who don't mind puzzles that are rote and unrelated to the story will probably 
 enjoy the bulk of Black Dahlia. 
  
  First of all, I have never seen such clever puzzles before. They are difficult but not absurd, 
 there is an easy logical explanation for every detail of every single puzzle. And second of all 
 - every goddam puzzle is 100% related to the game... I mean what was so unrelated? Puzzle with 
 the wrapping invitation to Raven Room? It is very relavant - Thule Brotherhood is secret and no 
 wonder they had a code for opening the door to the private room on the invitation. Puzzle with 
 the old and new runes on the round table of Thule Brotherhood's private room? But it has a simple 
 explanation... I would like to ask the reviewer if he even paid any attention to the game. My bet 
 was he didn't and he is not into the quest genre. So, why the hell he had a job to write this review?
 
  
  If you are reading this, you are fond of mind challenging puzzles and you are into a great plot, 
 this game will thrill your mind. It is so interesting, I kept playing it for hours! And the moment 
 I finished it, I just had one simple but great desire - to play something like this again! But 
 the problem is - it's almost impossible to find such a good game, especially nowadays, when developers 
 are making games for a wide range of public and all that the wide range wants is some stupid action 
 with a plot as simple as a kindergardern fairy tale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  This is a little known point and click adventure from 1998. It is absolutely fantastic and one 
 of my all time favourite games!
  
  Firstly the game looks and sounds brilliant and has a talented cast. It uses blue screen technology 
 and live actors. Most of the environments allow for full 360 degree panning, and look believable. 
 The music is non-intrusive and is used well to enhance the settings. The acting is excellent, and 
 never seems wooden or amateur.
  
  The puzzles are engaging, logical and all fit into the story line well. None of them require illogical 
 actions (such as using an unrelated item found somewhere else) and with patientce and logic all 
 can be solved without too much difficulty. One is ridiculously hard but still beatable in the end. 
 I've played several games of this genre, and this is the only one where all of the challenges make 
 sense and can be solved without huge and unrealistic leaps in logic.
  
  The storyline is really engaging from the start, and builds up dramatically as the game continues. 
 The plot deals with brutal murders and the occult so may not be everyones cup of tea, however no 
 one can say that the mystery isn't intriging. I would find myself thinking about the plot even 
 when I wasn't playing the game and was fascinated to get to the end and solve the mystery. The 
 end is a long time coming! At 8 disks this is no Sunday afternoon time waster. It took me three 
 weeks to complete this game first time around and never once did I become bored or frustrated. 
 The plot also takes in real life historical events. The way that ficticious characters and events 
 are integrated into the real life events is plausible and well done. The links never seem ridiculous 
 or contrived. 
  
  My only criticism is of the games producers. Why was it not better marketed? Why have very few 
 people ever heard of this game? Why do you not seem to care about it? I was introduced to the game 
 by a friend, I have since introduced it to others and everyone has loved it! While the genre might 
 not be the most popular, within its niche market this game could have been huge. It is a great 
 shame that it wasn't. 
  
  If you have an older spec machine that can run the game (my current Windows 2000 machine won't 
 run the game) then buy this game. You won't be disappointed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scatsofrango
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 19, 2004 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Black Dahlia has 8 CDs, but only the first 4 are worthy of playing. It seems to me that take two 
 interactive tried to extend a good story, but somehow lost itself during the development of the 
 game. What started as a good thrill including unsolved murderer cases just lost all the glance 
 due to a confusing ending.
  
  The graphs are pretty good, and also are the animes and texturing. You are able to interact with 
 lots of objects, with a good rendering and finishing. The gameplay should not be a problem, since 
 its very simple control your carachter by mouse. Use the device to look around, and walk trough 
 the sceneries. The bottons are used to do actions, that change according to the situation.
  
  Sound is a very good issue, with all the effects and music in a 3D stereo environment. Sometimes 
 the music becomes a little boring, but only if you get stucked on a level.
  
  Finally the puzzles: Some of then are really stupid, but others challenge your imagination, like 
 the one with a key trapped inside a toy house.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
