-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Black & White
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/blackwhite/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 30, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 9.0, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 6,406 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Lionhead Studios
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 26, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
No other PC game to date has so effectively combined so many seemingly incompatible elements into 
 one highly polished game. 

 After three years in the making, Lionhead Studios' first game manages to live up to the extremely 
 high expectations after all. It's a massive game about lofty concepts -- gods and miracles -- and yet 
 the game is genuinely funny. The scope of Black &amp; White is so far in excess of a typical game 
 design that it seems surprising that the finished product turned out so polished and so playable. 
 Still, its many different elements require a lot of explanation -- the game has lots of mainstream 
 appeal, but its sophisticated mechanics may quickly confound more casual players. Black &amp; White 
 is clearly a labor of love by designer Peter Molyneux and his staff. While some aspects of it take 
 getting used to, and can even be frustrating, there's just so much to see and experience in Black 
 &amp; White that its shortcomings should not turn you away from this incredible game.          
  The environments and special effects are stunning throughout the game    

 Because so much about Black &amp; White seems so unusual, it's only natural to be curious about 
 exactly how the game plays. It's definitely true that some aspects of the game simply defy categorization -- however, 
 it's also the case that, at its core, Black &amp; White is a strategy game that's reminiscent of 
 several of Peter Molyneux's previous games from when he was at Bullfrog Productions. You play as 
 a god, depicted throughout the game merely as a disembodied hand, and your object is to gain the 
 worship of villages throughout the world. You have complete control over the 3D perspective of 
 the game and complete control over more or less everything else in the world. You can personally 
 see to making villagers work more efficiently. As you gain more followers, your sphere of influence 
 grows over the land, eventually encompassing other outlying villages, which you'll have to convert 
 to your faith. Their belief in you is quantified within the game, and the more faithful villagers 
 you have, the greater the territory you control, and the more potential you have for creating miracles -- which 
 are essentially magic spells.           Your giant creatures can engage in hilarious brawls    
 

 You inspire belief in villagers by doing anything godlike. This is one of the more interesting parts 
 of the game, because it's so open-ended and really rewards your creativity. If you want to convert 
 a village, one perfectly viable approach is to help out the villagers for a while. You can drop 
 food and wood into the villagers' stockpile; you can shower rain onto their crops; you can impress 
 them with miraculous spectacles, such as flocks of doves; you can protect them with magical barriers; 
 and you can even send in friendly missionaries from one of your converted towns. If you repeat 
 one of these types of actions continuously, it'll have less and less of an effect on the village. 
 This forces you to try lots of different things, but of course, you don't have to play nice. A 
 much quicker approach can involve unleashing divine cataclysms such as fireballs and lightning 
 storms upon the town -- they'll believe in you in a hurry once their precious village is ablaze. 
 You can kidnap townspeople and bring them over to your village or fling the heathen villagers across 
 the sky, to the terror of their former neighbors. You can even send massive boulders smashing through 
 their buildings. An evil approach may be quicker -- but then again you'll inherit a shambles of a 
 town once it submits to you. This makes the good approach rather more suitable for when territorial 
 gain is important, and it usually is.   

  Other gods in the game usually have the same goals as you do, and during those times when more 
 than one god is vying for control of a single village, the game can actually turn into a rather 
 frustrating stalemate, since converting a village takes awhile. And even though territorial expansion 
 is important in Black &amp; White, you must simultaneously consider many other factors. For one 
 thing, while your villages are autonomous, they're not quite as self-reliant as you'd wish they 
 were. Their supplies of wood and food -- the two main resources in the game -- tend to run dangerously 
 low, as the availability of either food or wood in the environment tends to be limited. As such, 
 you'll constantly need to be there to make the supplies appear out of thin air by casting the appropriate 
 miracles repeatedly. Besides this, constructing new buildings in town can be a difficult process. 
 It requires that you first build scaffolding in a workshop by assigning a few villagers to the 
 task. Depending on the building you want to make, you'll need to combine up to seven pieces of 
 scaffolding, and once that's ready, the building itself requires still more resources and personnel. 
 It's a very involved process that's more cumbersome than it ought to be, especially since your 
 townspeople won't usually build anything on their own. They'll just complain about needing more 
 houses until you lay the foundations yourself.    

 There are other types of roles your villagers need to fill. By picking them up and dropping them 
 in a context-sensitive area, you can assign them to specific tasks and thus make them your disciples. 
 For instance, you can create a forester by placing a villager next to a tree, and you can likewise 
 create fishermen, craftsmen, farmers, builders -- even breeders, in that case by dropping the lucky 
 citizen right next to a member of the opposite sex. Your villagers will do all these things even 
 if you don't specifically assign them -- but creating disciples costs nothing, and these types of 
 villagers seem much more efficient. It's important not to make all of your villagers into disciples, 
 though, because disciples are so hard at work that they typically won't pray for you at your temple 
 (whereas regular villagers will) . It's these prayers that bestow upon you prayer points and make 
 it possible for you to cast miracles, so balancing how many disciples you have is an important 
 strategic consideration throughout the game. Fortunately you can turn disciples back to normal 
 villagers just by picking them up and shaking them around.           You can't directly control 
 the world outside your sphere of influence    

 All this is meant to suggest that Black &amp; White is by no means a simple game, nor is it easy 
 to play. Fortunately, its lighthearted appearance -- not to mention its spectacular graphics -- makes 
 it easy to get into. But actually learning all of the nuances of the core strategy game will take 
 you awhile. Part of the problem is that the game's 50-page manual, while fairly informative, doesn't 
 go into any depth. So for better or worse, you'll have to experiment a lot before you get a good 
 sense of the game. Furthermore, the game is difficult to control, at least at first. The designers 
 were determined to craft an invisible, fully mouse-driven interface for the game. This goes a long 
 way toward making the game look better and seem that much more ambitious, but at the same time, 
 there's a good reason why most other strategy games feature onscreen interfaces and require the 
 use of a keyboard as well as a mouse. At any rate, camera control in Black &amp; White, using just 
 the mouse, is hard to grasp. You hold the left mouse button and drag the screen around to scroll. 
 You click and hold along the edges of the map to pitch and to rotate the view. You use both mouse 
 buttons at once to zoom in and out. You can bind all of these functions to keystrokes if you'd 
 rather not use the mouse exclusively. Regardless, except on a very fast system, the camera control 
 in Black &amp; White is also rather sluggish.           The good and evil advisors like to give 
 you their perspective    

 The developers also came up with a very interesting concept for manipulating objects and casting 
 miracles in the game, and it's mostly successful. You can pick up and drop pretty much anything. 
 If you want to throw something rather than let it fall, you just flick the mouse in the desired 
 direction before letting go of the object -- rather like a game of shuffleboard. To create a miracle, 
 you actually need to trace a particular pattern on the screen while holding down the right mouse 
 button. These are all simple shapes, and you'll memorize them in short order. For instance, the 
 deadly miracle called "mega blast" requires you to trace a pentagram in the air. The only problem 
 with this system is that you may find it isn't perfectly responsive -- it can take a couple of tries 
 to get a miracle to happen, even after you've had a lot of practice. Fortunately you can also create 
 miracles by clicking on the appropriate miracle icon along the perimeter of your village hall. 
   

  In spite of all this, most players will agree that the giant creatures are the best thing about 
 Black &amp; White -- each god commands one as its personal avatar. You can teach the creature to 
 mimic pretty much any of your own godly interventions. The game's sophisticated behavioral artificial 
 intelligence makes it fascinating and very exciting to watch the creature learn any number of these 
 things. The good news is that this aspect of the game -- even though it's secondary to the core strategy 
 game in Black &amp; White -- is even more satisfying and at least as involved. You gain your choice 
 of creature after about a half hour of play. It starts off with the mind of a baby; it'll wander 
 around, clueless but curious. As its curiosity inspires it to try many different things, you simply 
 gesture with the mouse to give it positive reinforcement (by petting it lightly) or negative reinforcement 
 (with a slap, or even a beating) , depending on whether you want it to act that way again. You can 
 guide where it moves by using one of several special leashes, which can also influence it to learn 
 more actively, to act more kindly, or to act more aggressively. Creatures will also begin to learn 
 miracles as you cast them in their vicinity. Soon, you can turn your giant cow (or ape, or tiger) 
 into a farmhand by teaching it to water your crops and to toss food and wood into your stockpile. 
 You'll also have to train it to eat a certain diet -- you can pretty much convince it to try anything 
 at least once, which can be very funny -- and you'll even have to encourage it not to relieve itself 
 on your temple.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (136 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: earl_hickey
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is, if explained in 1 word, godly. This game has kept me out of my bed till late at night 
 more than once. its a game that is awesome in many aspects, the graphics are very good for a game 
 from that time, the game is very original and it really sucked me in. I even really started to 
 care about my creature. The difficulty level of this game I found was being built up quite nicely 
 until a certain point when it suddenly jumped in difficulty by alot, this was one thing I found 
 a little odd, and the impossible to complete sidequests like the stone tapping further in the game 
 I found kind of disappointing. but besides that it is a game worth buying and mentioning. If your 
 looking for a cheap fun to play game, and like being able to destroy (or be nice) , this might be 
 a game for you.
  
  Black and White = awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcavoybn
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Well, to start off I'll tell you that I haven't spent a lot of time playing this game, so don't 
 believe everything I say in this review.
  
  During my short experience playing Black and White, there were some cool features in it, and some 
 neat ideas, but lots of things that need to be improved. Lets start with the good.
  
  Like I said there are some cool things in here, that I hope will carry over to other games. For 
 example, the cool way you move around by clicking on the ground and pulling yourself forward. Also, 
 one of the coolest things you can put in a game (if put together correctly) is the fact that there 
 are very few menus! The way you build buildings and stuff.
  
  I am sad to admit that there are a few bad things in this game as well. For one all the people 
 in the game (your worshipers or whatever) look like inbred cavemen. And this was actually one of 
 the good things, but it also was a bad, the way you drag the ground to move around is incredibly 
 difficult to get used to. Not just the moving straight part, but if you are trying to turn, you 
 have to move your mouse off the screen, in the direction that you want to turn, the hold ctrl+alt+win+2+F1+L+Page 
 Up to turn. Just Kidding, but the way you are supposed to turn (with the mouse that is) is not 
 very comfortable, nor does it make any sense.)
  
  In the end your best shot at playing this game is if you buy the awesome LOTR RTS Game + B&W + 
 B&W 2 + a couple other games which I think they sell at best buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  The Good: Creatures a fun idea, great sense of humor, best use of "good or evil" concept in an 
 RTS game, very simple to play
  
  The Bad: Horrendous graphics, very hard, gets old after the first level
  
  I remember hearing 
 about B&W back in the day but I didn't have the machine to run it. Now, seven years later, I've 
 played it and walked away about underwhelmed. First off the game is butt ugly, but that is expected 
 for a seven year old game. The textures are blurry and washed out and the character models are 
 down right laughable. No matter though B&W delivers a great style that hasn't been in any other 
 RTS. While the story is paper thin there really isn't any need of one. You are a God who is just 
 a floating hand and you take control of creatures. These Creatures can help your villagers either 
 farm grain for good, chop down wood for... erm... wood, and you can pet it, slap it around to tell 
 it it's bad, or encourage it to do bad things such as even eating the villagers! The whole premise 
 of B&W is the "good or evil" premise that Peter Moloneux oh so loves. The whole concept of the 
 game is to influence other villages by performing God like tasks such as supplying them with food, 
 or wood. You can use your Creature to impress them or you can do evil things to impress them such 
 as picking up the villagers and throwing them around, smashing their buildings etc. When you get 
 a village the people will have needs. These are noted with flags around building. Some may want 
 more houses to breed children. Some may want a wonder, some people may even want more trees or 
 rocks in their village. When you start running out of resources you can perform miracles by having 
 your villagers chant at your temple. You can then use "gestures" to use wood miracles, food miracles, 
 fire, or shields to attack or protect villages etc. The game plays out in missions via silver scrolls 
 that require you to help (or hurt) people. When you get the God Stones you unlock the next door 
 to pick your next Creature. While all this sounds astounding (and it is) the game is very hard 
 and gets old really quick. After the first land which is the tutorial land you'll pretty much have 
 seen what the game has too offer. What makes the game so hard is that you will never have enough 
 resources and the resources are very limited, and buildings require too much wood to build. While 
 taking your Creature out on walks using a leash (use the good or bad collar to have the Creature 
 act accordingly) sounds neat it is but not for long. Back in 2001 this kind of thing was like finding 
 a Martian... it didn't exist. In 2008 we've seen this many times before and it's nothing new. If 
 you really dig this kind of thing I recommend it, but if you've played other great RTS games you 
 won't see anything new here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirko4444
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7/10
  
  REALLY cool game! I've never really seen anything like this before! You control one of many creatures 
 and you must teach is various things such as spells, which foods are better to eat and even where 
 to poop! There is so much you can do with your creature such as play with it, fight other creatures, 
 take over villages ETC, so the game will keep you hooked for hours. The reason I gave it a 7 though, 
 is because of one thing. Black and White promised many things that didn't appear in the final game. 
 Where is the soccer field? It says that you can build it right in the game, but you can't! Lionhead 
 (developer) also promised that your creature would be able to build a fire to warm itself (That's 
 why it lists how hot or cold your creature is) but that never appeared. It also promised creatures 
 dancing to MP3s, but that didn't happen either. This game is also LOADED with bugs! There is a 
 BETA patch now, but it still doesn't fix everything, after all, it's BETA. It is like EA (Publisher) 
 handed us BETA versions of the game and we were all testers. Why say you can do something and not 
 add it? Also, if you take a look at some of the files in the game, it shows many things, such as 
 village banter, which are not in the game. What happened? Don't give promises that you can't keep 
 and certainly don't give us unused files on the CD!
  
  Lionhead is going to keep adding patches to the game to add the little extras they missed, so people 
 who already bought the game have to wait. Because a lot of the cool little things are missing, 
 the game could get pretty boring, very fast. Multiplayer is also terrible, with only 4 maps to 
 play on. There is also no option to form alliances so it is always a free for all. If you still 
 don't have the game, I suggest you wait for a few months. This game is VERY good and VERY fun, 
 I'll give it that, but it will be much sweeter once Lionhead and EA get off their asses and add 
 the stuff that should have been there in the first place. Once they start releasing patches, they 
 will release the missing parts of the game and some new maps and creatures. This is when the game 
 will start to do its magic, so I strongly suggest waiting till then. (Don't worry! Play some other 
 very fun games like Counter-Strike, Tropico, or Worms World Party.)
  
  Control: 9/10
  
  Controlling everything with the mouse is a cool idea, but it is sometimes annoying. Luckily, you 
 can bind some camera controls to the keyboard. It may seem tedious at first, but with some practice, 
 exploring the map and controlling the camera gets VERY easy, with no annoying menu bars to fill 
 the screen! Good job Lionhead.
  
  Audio: 8/10
  
  Woah......
  If you don't have a good sound card, especially one with EAX, get one now! The game doesn't use 
 EAX, but an EAX card really helps! The sound of thunder crashing while rain pours down on your 
 villages. The sound of your creature's roar as he lands a punch into his enemy's face, the smash 
 afterwards and a blast from a fireball. The sound in this game kick ass! The music is also very 
 good, but kind of gets repetitive. Boy we could really use the MP3 option right now!
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Hands down, probably the prettiest game ever. This game looks absolutely 
 amazing, especially if you have an Nvidia card. The terrain looks beautiful, with the mountains, 
 realistic waterfalls and lakes, and the skies with its clouds. Everything looks so realistic in 
 this game. The weather effects are also outstanding. When it begins to snow, the terrain slowly 
 accumulates it, and when it is sunny, the snow slowly melts away! The creature models are superb, 
 with realistic builds and movements. The eyes, mouth and hair move around realistically and are 
 individually modeled, unlike some games. The only real problem I saw was that the villager models 
 were kind of bad, but that was probably the feel Lionhead was going for. Really nice looking game!
 
  
  Replayability: 5/10
  
  Ugh.... This isn't good at all. Like I said earlier, LOTS of bugs and LOTS of broken promises. 
 There is really no motivation to play after a while because the multiplayer is awful, with only 
 4 maps. After you beat the game (After the LV5 bug is fixed) there is no reason to beat it again, 
 unless you want to start with another creature. But once Lionhead adds maps, new gameplay options 
 and new creatures, this game will get very good, so just wait!
  
  Overall: 8/10
  
  Overall, this game is great! A really nice looking game with very unique gameplay. But horrible 
 multiplayer, broken promises and weak replay value may bore some of you. This is one of those games 
 that can only get better with time. My advice for the people who don't have this game yet, is to 
 just wait. Just wait for Lionhead to release more stuff, hopefully during the summer on their website 
 www. bwgame. com. But lets not see a repeat of the ''patch incident'' Lionhead! (Many of the B+W 
 fans know what I mean when I say that)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bullton_35
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  this game is just awsome, like OMG WHERE THE F**K HAVE YOU BEEN ALL MY LIFE kind of awsome, you 
 know what i mean? when i got this game when it first came out it was like waiting for halo 3 but 
 like way better. when i went home and started playing the first level i got the gut feeling i riped 
 off the store even though i payed like $40-$50 (can't remember) . So if your friend has one or something 
 i say slip it under your shirt and run! Or you can just go try and find it in the bargin bin which 
 it shouldn't be there, it should be on some golden pedestal in the middle of the store... Any ways 
 i rate this game a good well diserved 9.5, its got graphics that where never even seen at that 
 time ( this is still when start craft was new!) . but of course i can't say all this to B&W 2, which 
 was a little bit of a let down but still good. I would still pick the first over the second anyday. 
 SO GO GET IT ALREADY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newlemming
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  When B&W first came out a few years ago, I had no idea what to expect when I bought this game. 
 I had gone to Sam Goody, looking for some decent games to buy and this game caught my eye. I have 
 no regrets for impulse-buying this wonderful game.
  
  Black and White is a truly epic experience where you may take the road of either a good, evil, 
 or middleway god (yes I said god, that's what the game is about- but more importantly don't confuse 
 this with real religion) who keeps his people happy or make lives miserable depending on the alignment 
 of the actions taken.
  
  Now here's for the good and bad breakdown-
  
  Good:
  - This game does not require a lot of processing power, maybe a lot of RAM memory from your computer 
 but that's about it.
  - A large amount of freedom for the player.
  - You get your own animal to control, called a Creature, and it does whatever it sees you doing 
 (incredible learning AI)
  - The power of Miracles! Being able to create things with this mystical objects make things interesting. 
 Miracles vary from terrifying and frying innocent villagers to more goodly miracles that can heal 
 almost entire villages!
  - Humor, this game is not only fun to play, it's got a bit of humor to keep things interesting! 
 (Ex. Bad conscience tell jokes when you're tormenting villagers or good one says funny things in 
 peaceful times)
  
  Bad:
  - Controversy, I mean come on people.. of course you're going to have shunners when you're imitating 
 the power of gods!
  - Game locks up from time to time; what I mean by this is that the game generally runs well but 
 nothing is perfect.
  - Camera movement, while the dynamic system in the game works well, you usually have to keep your 
 camera high to see all the things going on around you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tricky06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  LOVE this game! Yeah its a bit outdated, but you can't go wrong with this. It provides a challenge 
 without being overly difficult, which is great when one gets off work and your brain just isnt 
 functioning up to par and you just want to unwind. Immersive gameplay and a variety of ways to 
 play make the game ridiculously addictive. I could go on and on. The only not so great feature 
 seems to be the speed in which your territory can be taken over. You have to focus more on protecting 
 your lands than your peoples needs, which makes things a bit tricky. Also I encountered quite a 
 few glitches where my creature would freeze. I could still play but he was rendered quite useless. 
 If it weren't or those issues, I could easily give this game a 9 or 10. I definately reccomend 
 going out and getting yourself a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Bezerker
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I really like the idea of "being god", theres just some much fun to be had from this game. Im not 
 sure why i still play it, ages after its release, the graphics are now overshadowed by newer games 
 such as black and white 2. But still it is better than black and white 2 because of all the different 
 miracles and different stories you can do. 
  
  The basic idea is that you start of as a god who has "appeared" to save a little child from the 
 sharks in the water, the parents of the child take you to an unfinished temple they have made for 
 you (quite strange, because you didnt exist when they started the temple) , you then help them finish 
 it, with a little help from your good and evil conciences, who are funny little chaps who always 
 seem to be talking in your ear. You then do a little quest to get your creature which you choose, 
 an soon after you are plunged into a quest to destroy an evil god called nemesis.
  
  The thing about Black and White is that it has flaws, but it rather sneakily charms you into not 
 noticing them, for example, there is only 5 levels in the storyline, and not much skirmish gameplay. 
 But the fact is you can try it over and over again to change how you raise your creature, and explore 
 things you never explored the first time.
  
  Now that it is old and cheap, if you dont have it, get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  Black & White
  PC
  
  Black & White is one of the best game on PC because of its awsome storyline, In the game you are 
 playing as a new born god. The game has a big storyline with twist and truns in the game.
  
  The gameplay is fun with different type of challeges, As a god you are not alone you will have 
 a ceature to help you fight off other god's ceatures.
  
  The graphic look quite interesting with there 3D citys and levels, The levels are big and quite 
 detail.
  
  Overall Black & White has a great story that will take players for ever to get every challege and 
 secert out the way, There is quite alot of humor to the game with you good & evil sides that will 
 help along they away. So if you haven't got a good game the is all over freedom game this is for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlomHellscream
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  One the infulencing games in my life, I think Black &amp; White is one of the best, if THE best, 
 games Lionhead Studios has created. Bravo to Peter Molyneux, bravo indeed. I'm astonished by his 
 keen sight of the game, miracles, creatures, other gods. By George, this game is incredible. I 
 have to say, I'm very proud to own this marvelous game.
  
  I'd leave to my house, as my brother was at my grandparent's for High school, come back and play 
 this until the sun rose. I've been good, evil, in between, hell it took me almost a year to beat 
 it, but that's what kept me coming back. My vision on this game is: How'd he do that, or OMG that's 
 funny!! and even Mutha -- Imma kill that... Well you understand. At the end of the day, I'd say, 
 This game is incredible... I'm so glad I own it, Even the little jokes they point out there, about 
 the stoner with the rocks, the evil gods that look like pot, and the hilarious come backs they 
 make if you kill them. The good and evil thoughts, now those guys had a fun time I bet. One of 
 the best GI games I've played would be this and Fable. Protect you people from other gods and creatures, 
 or from yourself... If you play this understand, there is no good or bad, thought there is a good 
 or evil, that's different. The game really took my hand and chucked my out a window from long spent 
 hours in the middle of the night. This game truly deserves three purple hearts for fighting in 
 the war of good and bad games. Lon live Peter Molyneux! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartharel
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  With this game, its not hard to feel the feelings of the developers shinning through, as its just 
 so origional.
  
  Other god games, such as populace, hold few cards compared with this. At the beginning you are 
 a nobody, a god who the poeple hardly know but within time you rise to be the greatest god there 
 is. You have a choice to be good or evil, although you start by default as good. I personally think 
 its easier to be good and more fulfilling as most of the rewards come from helping the people, 
 not tormenting them. you have acess to many miracles. you can bless the crops with good rain, or 
 make a drought and let the population be subjected to famine, you can grow forests, heal the wounded, 
 or, if your that way inclined, bombard your neighbour with fireballs until his town is not but 
 dust.
  
  Your creature basically represents you, if you are too evil he will turn dark and vicious, if you 
 are too good he will turn pink and gay each comes with its advantages, for example an evil creature 
 will be a better fighter but a good creature will be better for your kingdoms well-being as he 
 will help.
  
  The only thing this game suffers from is the fact that the vilalgers are pretty much 100% dependant 
 on you, so much to the extent that you have to get them to do things like breed and build homes. 
 such is not the work of a god, i say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  This game came out a LONG time ago, but side the fact this game is an amazing game and needs to 
 be played by everyone. First of all no one has made a game quite like this. Your are a god and 
 can control a village. You also get a pet that you can either make evil or good. Same goes for 
 yourself you can be evil or good. Um, then over time your pet will grow into this huge thing.
 
  Overall this game is AMAZING
  But, Black and White 2 is not..
  I wouldn't recommend getting that game at all. Stick with this and it's expansions and you will 
 be set :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zechis
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  You are a god with control over a single beast avatar. Get the people of the world to follow you 
 by awe or by fear. Raise your creature to be good or evil. Perform miracles or train your creature 
 to do it instead. B&amp; W is a first person god-sim. You have two consciences guiding you, one 
 evil, one good. If you follow the good advice, you learn to impress your people and your avatar 
 and temple reflect good deeds by getting a brighter color or with softer edges. Follow the evil 
 advice and your people learn to fear you. Your avatar grow horns and turns dark while tour temple 
 also darkens and becomes sharper and more foreboding. You can train your creature by leashing on 
 of three leashes to it: hate, neutral, or love. Performing an action while leashed teaches the 
 creature that action and the leash type determines how your creature is to generally see the target. 
 You cast miracles by making gestures with the mouse. There are no icons to be clicked here. This 
 was a fantastic, novel idea for a game. Some of the anecdotes made this game seem a lot smarter 
 than it is however. Also, the further you progress, the longer the save takes to the point where 
 it was crashing on me every couple minutes of play. I'll be trying it on a different rig for correlation.
 
  
  + Great new idea
  + Novel user interface
  - Creature is pretty retarded/forgetful sometimes
  - Stability 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dik_Vigarista
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  About 6 years ago a great game was launched with the innovative idea to put the players in the 
 position of God, to control peoples destiny to change they faith. This game was Black and White.
 
  Even now before 6 long years i still playing this game. Its a game where everything is possible 
 you can be good or evil, a bless or a curse. You can even have a creature to tame and make it learn 
 to be as good as you or as bad as well.
  But there is fight after all because along the game you need to defeat another Gods to became the 
 most powerful and worshipped God.
  
  This is a Must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hermitkermit
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  Black and White was, really for it's time something that everyone had to play...
  
  Gameplay: You are a God in this game world so anything goes, your mouse pointer becomes a hand, 
 and you have to grab the landscape to move around, and to pick people or objects up. You also get 
 a pet, which you can train and even control, like to feed itself or to clean up it's poop. Yep, 
 Also you can choose to be GOOD or EVIL... (It's really easy to be EVIL) Don't fret, you also get 
 2 minions, (Not really) more like advisor's. One is a old man (For GOOD) and a little gremlin (For 
 EVIL) they are a funny duo, but of course there is also powers, you can wield lightning and fire... (There's 
 more but there is too many to write) So really you have to play this game to feel it your self....
 
  
  Graphics: Most computers can run it, even at MAX, so really it's still a great looking game, still 
 has some framerate issue, but theres a patch for that...
  
  Sound: Gets repetitive, and even annoying... however the music is what makes this game so memorable...
 
  
  Replay Value: Higher than the Sky, this game will make you come back for more and more, also there 
 is multiplayer. Pits you against 3 other AI opponents..
  
  Summary: Great game, that anyone should play but only a few will love... it takes time!
  
  The 
 bad: Glitches, and bugs, crashes, it's a virus's paradise! Patches help, but might not.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  Black and White is one of the finest games even now since its original release. Lionhead are renowned 
 for their love of letting the player decide what they want to do and for the chance of them being 
 good or evil. You become a god, and become in control of a land in danger. You can forge the world 
 in your own image, or make it a better place for everyone. You start the game learning the controls 
 of course, then you do small jobs in order for you to gain your new Creature . The game's missions/quests 
 are for you again to make your own choice, for instance, There is a stone you need of a creatures 
 head, which is part of one of three to open the gate to your creatures (Monkey, Cow, Tiger) . One 
 of the stones are in this womans house, in order for you to get the stone you must do something 
 for her, you must rescue her brother from the forest where he has fallen ill and is close to death... 
 there are many options here.
  
  1. you save her brother from near death and return him home
  2. You smash down the woman's home 
 and take the stone and leave the man for dead
  3. You can go on a killing spree and kill the sister and the brother and take the stone for yourself
 
  
  Almost every mission/quest has multiple options allowing you to truely decide what to do.
  Your 
 creature, once you've chosen one, is one of the most unique in game characters you could have. 
 You yourself can teach your creature to become good or evil, what he can or cant eat ETC and make 
 him grow.
  You are given three leashes
  1. The leash of learning- The leash that enables you to help your creature grow
  2. The evil 
 leash (cant remember the real name) - which lets your creature run rampant and do what he likes
 
  3. The leash of good- makes your creature behave if you are doing something else. Leashes are 
 important tools in the game, leashes can be tied to anything in the game. Everything in the game 
 is interactive also.
  The game is visually stunning even on older computers it still ceases to amaze me.
  sounds are 
 good to, with the helpless cry of your town folk , to the sound of oceans.
  Overall
  one of lionheads finest games, all of their games are truely amazing
  
  If you enjoyed this 
 game you will enjoy
  Fable, Fable The lost Chapters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DealDeathC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  Though this reasonably difficult game starts as a boring tutorial that last forever and then has 
 trouble to pick its feet up, but the first level is a great learning tool for your creature. When 
 I brought this game for &pound;5 I thought this game was going to be absolutely rubbish but my 
 interest in the second hand section of Game paid off. This game has resemblance to its newer ancestor 
 which I brought at Game together, with a deal of all together &pound;15, now buying Black &amp; 
 white 2 Battle of the gods. But back to B&amp; W amazing game but I think for the graphic problems 
 on Vista Fantastic game. Lionhead has outdone itself on this game. I played this for ages still 
 addicted 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goduffgo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  When i 1st heard of Black &amp; White i was in mixed thoughts about it so i left it a bit before 
 buying, when i finally decided to play it i was a little confused to how to play the game, the 
 controls were very confusing and many times lost where i was on the map. Slowly i lost interested 
 and stoped playing for a wile. I came back to the game after a year and put a lot of concentration 
 into it and finaly got interested! The game reminded me of Dungeon Keeper because the basis is 
 the same, build up and destroy! As soon as you are in the know of all the game features then it 
 is a little easier to play and to enjoy. I'd say this game is worth buying for me the slow start 
 i felt did'nt drap me into the game as well as it should of done and was dissapointed i have yet 
 to say this game is amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Forget about the delays, forget about the hype, and most importantly, forget about playing anything 
 else once you get your hands on this game. Its not hyperbole: Lionhead Studios has taken the god-game 
 genre pioneered by its founder, Peter Molyneux, and revolutionized both the genre, and the potential 
 for PC gaming, with stunning AI and amazing visuals.
  
  Amazingly, Black &amp; White has made good on all its promises and then some. You really havent 
 played anything quite like this before.
  
  Things start simply: in a world known as Eden, a family is out for a beachside stroll. Their son 
 runs off into the ocean and suddenly finds himself in deep, shark-infested water. The parents cry 
 out in prayer for someone to save him, and you are created as an answer to their pleas, and save 
 their son.
  
  Once called into existence, and as any self-respecting Populous player will recognize instantly, 
 you must expand your realm by gaining more believers and spreading your influence. Eventually, 
 a story involving an evil god named Nemesis and a set of powerful items called creeds is introduced. 
 Its up to you to defeat Nemesis and obtain all the creeds. Exactly how this is accomplished is 
 up to you. You may become Beelzebub-incarnate and rule through terror and wickedness, or play the 
 benevolent card and gain believers through love and compassion. Thus, Black &amp; White.
  
  Subhed: Your own personal Eden
  
  Eden itself is a planet not too different from our own. There 
 are blue oceans, towering snow-capped mountains, and lush, green forests. The people that populate 
 it require food, shelter, safety, and, eventually, offspring. They giggle or sob while other hypnotic 
 ambient sounds bring this unique game world to life.
  
  You interact with the world in two ways. The first is through your mouse-controlled hand. Think 
 of it as an actual extension of yourself into Eden. With it, you can pick up and replace boulders, 
 trees, and villagers, cast spells, and travel from village to village. It is the most simple yet 
 versatile interface to come along in years. To toss a boulder, you grab one in your fist, move 
 your mouse forward with the button pressed and release it to send that rock sailing.
  
  The same method may be applied to anything that can be picked up. It takes some practice to be 
 able to throw accurately, but after a while youll be sending trees, fireballs, villagers and sheep 
 hurtling through the air with ease.
  
  To move the camera around, you move your hand icon to a point on the ground, click to grab the 
 land, then pull or push yourself to that point. Think of it as moving the world, rather than moving 
 the camera around the world. It is awkward at first, and there have been complaints of it being 
 counter-intuitive, but there are a variety of options you can adjust to make it more to your liking, 
 including mapping the keys to a configuration that is similar to a conventional first-person shooter 
 setup.
  
  Spells, known as miracles, are cast through mouse movements called Gestures. For example, to start 
 up a miracle, you make a clock-wise swirl with the mouse. This opens a spell menu at the bottom 
 of the screen that lists other miracle-specific gestures. All you have to do to cast these miracles 
 is make their respective gestures. Making a W motion with the mouse casts a water miracle, moving 
 up and down rapidly casts a fireball, and making the shape of a heart casts a healing miracle.
 
  
  There are over a dozen gestures in the game. You dont have to use them -- there are keystrokes 
 and other alternative methods of selecting spells -- but I loved the gesturing system because it 
 made me feel like I was actually doing magic. There are plenty of miracles to play with. You can 
 protect your villages with shield miracles, lay down the law with lightning miracles, impress non-believing 
 villagers with the Flock of Birds miracle that makes a flock of doves magically appear, and do 
 things that would make Moses look like a two-bit sideshow.
  
  However, you do have some limits. You are only able to interact with objects and cast spells within 
 your circle of influence -- highlighted in the game world by a shimmering, translucent red wall 
 (one of hundreds of incredible visual effects) . This circle grows as more people believe in you 
 and worship you. More worshipers means more prayer power, and more prayer power means you can cast 
 more miracles. But how can you make them believe in you if you cant do anything outside of your 
 circle of influence?
  
  Subhed: Creature comforts
  
  This is where the second method of interacting with the world comes into play: your creature. Think 
 of the creature as the ambassador of your will. In the extensive early game, once youve practiced 
 controlling the camera, you get to choose from three base creatures: a chimp, a tiger, and a cow 
 (others are made available later in the game or via free downloads online) , each with unique attributes. 
 The chimp is smart but not the strongest fighter, the tiger is dumb but ferocious, and the cow 
 is... well, a cow, docile and plodding. Like any parent, its up to you to teach your creature how 
 to behave with a brilliant balance of punishment and reward.
  
  The theory is simple, but mastery of it is a real challenge. If your creature poos where he shouldnt 
 (yes, he does poo) , you slap him around. If your creature poos where you want him to (say, on an 
 adversarys front lawn) , you pet him. Moving the hand cursor slowly over the creature -- under 
 his chin or on his belly -- acts as a pet while quick short twitches of the mouse translate into 
 slaps. Be your alignment good or evil, you pet and punish in the same way, but for different actions. 
 Should your pet eat villagers, set fire to houses, and behave as Godzilla, he can, if thats the 
 behavior that you choose to reward.
  
  This system relies on some meaty AI -- your creature wanders around doing his own thing whenever 
 not under your direct control. The AI is, quite simply, a revelation, and a revolution. Each creature 
 emotes a genuine, and evolving personality over time; they feel anger, sadness, and happiness, 
 and arent afraid to show it. Eventually, youll feel a bond with your creature almost as if it 
 were a real pet.
  
  Theres a strategy to balancing these personality quirks. Dumber creatures, such as the tiger, 
 will take more reinforcement before they learn their lessons, but the chimp will figure things 
 out quick smart. Eventually, the creature will be able to do anything you can do, from casting 
 miracles to finding food for villagers. To teach it, you just have to attach it to the leash of 
 learning and have it watch you perform whatever it is you want it to learn. It can also learn things 
 by watching villagers go about their daily chores. It is truly amazing to watch your creature study 
 your moves and then imitate you by trying to cast a spell its seen you do over and over again. 
 Theyll even get upset at themselves if they mess up and cheer and clap when they get things right.
 
  
  As your creature ages, it grows in size and its alignment is reflected in its physical appearance. 
 For example, a benevolent chimp will look cute and huggable, while an evil one will being to grow 
 spots of purple and black and end up looking like an extra from a bad GWAR video. This also applies 
 to the appearance of your hand icon. If youre good, it looks clean and healthy; if youre bad, 
 it turns purple, veins bulge out, and your nails grow long and claw-like.
  
  Testimony to the sheer depth of gameplay here, there isnt nearly enough room to go over all of 
 Black &amp; Whites amazing features. There are dozens, maybe even hundreds of little details and 
 extras. Its simply amazing. The game certainly gets tough; taking care of five villages and trying 
 to raise your creature right at the same time is a stressful strategic challenge. But the pros 
 far outweigh the cons in this game. It should suffice to say that everyone here in the PCG offices 
 is thoroughly amazed with what Lionhead has accomplished -- and everyone has had a unique experience 
 interacting with the creature. Just trust us when we say that this is a game you definitely should 
 not miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy_the_pipe
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Overall, I really like this game. I know, parts of the game are kind of childish; such as the etheral 
 guides Nick and Nack, or any of the voice work. But some parts are mature; such as the morality 
 questions, or sacrificing random villagers, or raising the question of pet-abuse. And I still wonder 
 about the creature programming that makes the the creature look evil or good. (Did they make 200 
 different meshs-per-creature, or use some sort of morphing technique?) And throwing fireballs at 
 enemy villagers? Never gets old.
  
  So I really like this game, but I am going to point out some of it's flaws:
  -Script: It kind-of 
 sucks.
  
  -Guides: Funny the first time, if that. Bad afterwards.
  
  -Animal battles: Fun, but what are they good for? They don't really do anything, win or lose. (Also, 
 controls don't seem to affect anything.)
  
  Difficulty: -Some of the quests have difficult objectives. (see next point)
  -Have you ever spent 
 2 hours scouring a very decorative 3d landscape with substandard controls looking for tiny little 
 specks that are sheep, mountain lions, wolves, etc?
  -Level 4: Never finished. The game got so difficult it was no longer fun. All my villagers burnt 
 in 2 minutes because the bad guy was being an a$$.
  
  Bugs: -If you hit your animal too hard, his left eye gets all shaky. You might even be petting 
 it and whelp him by accident, then his eye is broken forever.
  -If your game crashes after 2 hours, all of the saves you have made are erased. (So to be safe, 
 everytime you save, quit and reload.)
  -If you kill Yellow god, the movie scene shows the bad guy killing him, thus stealing your credit.
 
  -When you accidentally kill all of your villagers, there's not much of a safety net, and you're 
 kindof f&amp;&amp;&amp; ed.
  -I swear the creature/god statistics inside the temple are broken. REALLY broken.
  
  Well worth 
 the $5 it probably costs now. I can honestly recommend this game to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Black and White is a god game that came from Lionhead Studios, some of whom had experience previously 
 from Bullfrog, whom had created the populous games. In Black and White- they were aiming for some 
 non-linear gameplay that could of kept people occupied for hours on end, but thier own ploy backfires 
 on them due to a puzzling execution.
  
  Black and White's story is that your a god- suddenly created to save the child of a Viking couple 
 from sharks. With your first good deed done- their village starts to worship you, and all seems 
 fine- until Nemesis shows up and ruins your humble realm. After this, you just barely escape, and 
 then start to seek a way to stop Nemesis from becoming the one and only god.
  
  The basic gameplay generally has you looking about your land, looking for quests to undertake, 
 and villages to convert. The game's seemingly non-linear gameplay shows quite plainly- yet it is 
 also extremely limited by the game's structure. Thing is- the game is following a storyline, and 
 it still feels as if your being pushed along this thin line. There are not nearly enough optional 
 quests to undertake (even though there are still quite a few) , so the game's single player mode 
 ultimately feels too constrained to be fully satisfying. Fortunately, the game has a skirmish mode 
 which fares much better than the storyline does.
  
  One of the game's main focus points is the giant creature you get early on in the story. There 
 are a large number of creatures available to you, though they all only fall into 3 seperate catagories 
 essentially. There are creatures that are balanced for combat and peace and learn quickly, creatures 
 that are effective in combat but learn very slowly, and then creatures who are better with peace, 
 weak in combat, and learns at a pretty good rate. It is an absolute joy to tend to the creature 
 and simply watch what it does thanks to its excellent and characterful AI. You can also use specific 
 leashes to train your creature and influence how it acts. Ultimately, the creature alone almost 
 completely makes up for the story mode's issues.
  
  Graphically, Black and White is gorgeous. It is absolutely stunning to simply zoon out and see 
 the sights. The world itself with all of its creatures and terrain looks fantastic. The villagers 
 and buildings aren't quite as appealing- but you can't have everything... Sound wise, the game 
 has some great voice acting from the other gods- and your comical advisors, who tend to steal the 
 show a lot of the time. Ultimately, Black and White has some addicting gameplay as you watch over 
 and expand your realm, along with simply letting your creature do its thing. In all reality- Black 
 and White feels more like an interactive screen-saver at times, since sometimes there tend to be 
 lulls in actual activites to undertake. Despite this however, Black and White is still recomendable 
 for anyone looking for something that looks fantastic and is simply different from the pack.
  
  Pros: There's nothing like this out in the market. The creature and advisors steal the show. 
 Gorgeous graphics. Great AI for both the creatures and enemy gods.
  
  Cons: Story mode does not bode well with the gameplay as there is not enough to do. From my experience, 
 the Story mode can also be buggy at times, with profiles either suddenly losing or gaining progress. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k-hearts987
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 4, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  the games gameplay is basically a hand. you are a hand that is supposed to be a god. you pick up 
 things, and throw them, and so on. you get these powers that are either destruction or life depending 
 on wether you're good or evil. the game story I never really got into. I think that it was about 
 how you have to destroy the all time evil god. try it out, I kind of liked it but it gets old after 
 a while. It's still fun to play in your free time though. don't get too addicted to it like most 
 people do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skate411
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a tottaly unique game. There has never been any game like it where you are a god and have 
 the power to control everything in front of you. It introduced a whole new gaming experience. You 
 can basically do whatever you want. If your villagers are annoying you, pick them up and throw 
 them off a cliff (or over one if you want) . Light them on fire, crush them with a rock, or better 
 yet get your creature ,that resembles you as a god, to eat them. The graphics are simply amazing, 
 great gameplay-there are a few bugs but they have been worked out in all the patches, and the AI 
 is just insane for its time. I highly recommend this game if you like the idea of being a god and 
 doing what you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisda
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Black and White is my all time favorite game and if you don't like it, you'r crazy.
  
  The Gameplay is flawless, what more could you want when you get absolute control over your people 
 and villages, the combat system is unique and fun to expiriment with. Black and White also offers 
 you a variety of choices for almost everything you do which makes it a pure RPG. The Variety of 
 creatures is cool too, and the creatures AI and free will is revelutionary. Multiplayer Pins you 
 against other players in a conquest to take over each others villages and battle out with miracles 
 and creatures
  
  The Graphics are amazing for a game so old, and the game runs smoothly with no lag.
  
  The 
 music is beautifully orchestrated and is fun to listen to, and changes to fit the mood of the current 
 situation. Sometimes its just fun to sit back and listen to it.
  
  Black and White is a must play for any strategy, RPG, or Civilization Sim fans out there. You must 
 play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidl3631
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Black and White is a god game where you have a creature with you as well, you have to train your 
 creature and raise the creature to become either good or evil depending on what you show your creature, 
 for example if you keep picking up the villagers and throw them around your creature will pick 
 up on this and do the same, which isnt too good as it will destroy the village! cool to watch though!
 
  
  I feel the game does get repetative though and eventully it does become the same thing over and 
 over, you basically take over the land by using influence by doing spells or your creature can 
 do magic and gain influence as well, at time this can take forever and it does get boring so you 
 must have patience, me i have a lot of patience but during the final level i gave up as it was 
 taking far too long to get nemises' influence down!
  
  The graphics are very good to look at considering it age and the sound is very good with some very 
 creepy speeches at times, overall the gameplay is very good just gets very repetative and the story 
 is good as well even though i dont know the ending yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronmullan
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 14, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  ok i bought this game along with some others that i will be wrighting a review for soon for &pound;20, 
 i havent playe any B&amp; W games before and now i feel like a fool! ive been missing out all these 
 years on what a superb game B&amp; W is! , ok basically the only thing i have wrong with htis game 
 the camera tends to get annoying but dont let tht get into your gaming experience with this game 
 i mean what god game lets you have a giant pet and lets you slap the crap outta him that was the 
 main thing that caught my eye, then i noticed you can cast spells which i must say is awesome, 
 and take your pet around for walks on a leash! oh and i lost my pet :P so anyone if you havent 
 played this game then go buy now! seriously your missing out bigtime... by the way dont let the 
 graphics get to you i think the look decent not the people or the textures but the lighting and 
 effects used. top notch game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 8, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  I do. I absolutely Hate this game. It is the same thing over and over again and it irritates the 
 living daylights out of me. I must admit that the Idea was fantastic. Controlling a Civilization 
 as a God. And added to that a fantastically cool creature to play with. That is such a good idea. 
 But they screwed up a good idea by making the game to mono.
  
  Nothing really exiting happens. After going through the seriously irritating and super long Training, 
 there is really not much better to add to the game.
  
  I think you really need to be into games like these where you need to either be a good guy or a 
 really bad guy and you are to control a creature that can either help your villagers or eat them.
 
  
  Good points is the way you have total freedom as to the camera control and the graphics are good 
 for a game that came out in 2000 or whatever. As I said it is a great Idea, but it just does not 
 appeal to me. Thus it will not get a great score from me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozanimal
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 1, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  As a fan of the Command &amp; Conquer series, Populous, Simcity, Lemmings, and Starcraft, this 
 game seemed right up my alley. I was sorely disappointed.
  
  You are a God. You gain power from your worshippers. When you perform miracles, be they good or 
 bad for your population, you gain power. You will control a creature - an avatar - that will represent 
 you corporeally, but it is not you. It's more like a really smart pet. Your goal is to gain the 
 belief of the populace and force out the other deities.
  
  Graphics: Outstanding graphics that were cutting edge when the game was released and still hold 
 their own today, it's no wonder Nvidia used the game to highlight the capabilities of their top 
 graphics cards at the time. Every aspect of the game, from the avatars to the water, was cutting-edge. 
 The graphics programming for B&amp; W is a foundation for many of today's best games.
  
  Sound: I found the sound complemented the game, but did not jump out at the player. This is good, 
 because when you notice the sound you're not immersed in the gameplay. Very good.
  
  Gameplay: I found the game to be too nonlinear for my taste. I got tired of tooling around with 
 my avatar, training my animal and coddling (even decimating) my worshipers. There was never a clear 
 rhyme or reason for certain things to occur in the game, and potty-training my creature was just 
 work. I would take a click you units and send them there game over this type of psychological interpretation, 
 but this is a matter of preference. The gameplay is innovative and unique, but I was unable to 
 get into it.
  
  Lacking a clear direction and ease of acclimation, I cannot fully endorse this game despite a wide 
 range of positive reviews and accolades from other fans. I fear that I just didn't get it, but 
 some of you who want a clear direction in a game rather than a tooling-around game may get some 
 value out of my advice to look to its predecessor instead. B&amp; W 2 took everything from this 
 game and improved upon it, and nearly every PC out today should be able to run it easily. You will 
 not miss anything by picking up the sequel first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akazergling2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 30, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  Black and White was the first God/RTS game I ever had the pleasure of playing. With the most intricate 
 AI system I know of, Black and White is almost more than just a game.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  The strategy involved in Black and White two is rather slow paced but very deep and intricate. 
 Building gigantic metropolises however, takes extraordinary vision. The campaign of Black and White 
 can take you anywhere from weeks to months depending on how deep you explore the game.
  
  Graphics  10/10
  The Graphics of Black and White are phenomenal. At the time they were perhaps 
 the highest quality in existence. Even today, 6 years later they are decent at the very least. 
 Each building, citizen, creature, and even plant fits its surroundings perfectly.
  
  Sound  10/10
  The music of Black and White is great, if you like New Age you will defiantly 
 enjoy this soundtrack. The sound effects in Black and White also are quite good. With waves crashing 
 against the shores, trees swaying in the breeze, and even villagers dancing around a bonfire, the 
 sound effects are varied and detailed.
  
  Value  10/10
  With Skirmish mode, a major campaign, and even internet capabilities, Black and White gives you 
 more than a bang for your buck.
  
  Reviewers Tilt  10/10
  I consider Black and White a Masterpiece. Innovative at its time, and still innovative today, 
 Black and White is an amazing piece of work that I believe any gamer would enjoy thoroughly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ananasz
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  This game is so brilliant.
  
  The story line is great and the creatures are so stunning! As for the landscapes, temples, music 
 and spells.
  The game exists out of levels, in each level you'll have to do one big mission to.. uh... let's say 
 ''activate'' the possibility to go to the next level (the next world) . While you're busy with getting 
 things done, you can do mutilple little missions to get more people to believe you or to get more 
 spells (missions existing out of helping your minions or future-minions) .
  
  Sometimes it's hard with a creature, it's a real pet, so you can't just go to a town filled with 
 unbelievers and trash them for hours untill they believe you, because there is still a creature 
 waiting for your attention and food (if there's not any nearby) , same goes for your villagers. 
 They need to be fed and taken care of and ALSO make sure they keep having faith in you, and not 
 some other annoying God :P Fun fun fun, you're always busy in this game, and yet, you have all 
 the time of the world to explore and do what you want.
  
  How do they do that? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fcps2
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  Getting into Black &amp; White should have been a remarkable
  experience, if you consider the hype.
  
  And it was, the first rounds tend to be the best in
 
  real time strategy, which makes the game equal to
  hits like warcraft, which then cannot be
  compared due to its much more violent story and gameplay.
 
  The first few hours of gaming are fun, exploring
  the new world, getting around your temple and getting to
  know your citizens, who are more likely 
 to be the ancestors
  of future simcity residents, is in fact a worthwhile
  experience. Equivalent to two levels in black and white, this
  is its strong side: Creating the 
 curiousness about what
  might come next, which is soon satisfied by a non-linear
  storyline would make for the team of Lionhead for an extra
  round of applause.
  
  However, 
 as the world is limited to its self-created real 
  boundaries which is the sea you cannot cross, the stage
  soon becomes repetitive and the slobby 
 handling which
  should be your controls over the
  world as the god that you in fact are, does more damage to
  concentration than what could be 
 expected. As innovative as
  the new interface might be, if it does only feel snappy
  sometimes and after you have lost the pilgrim out of sight another time and
  again, you simply 
 turn away.
  
  (Note: The review refers to the version distributed for
  Apple Mac OSX, but according to the article on gamespot
  controlling the game is equally difficult
 
  on pcs) .
  
  As the game levels are set on islands it was an obvious
  step for the developping team to create the matching
  inhabitants, the cultures dwelling on your 
 ground and
  working for your godly ambitions, helping you as your career
  develops.
  
  The time in which these cultures exist being not exactly
  specified and being god of a culture 
 where fishing, hunting
  and breeding are the driving elements of a developping society,
  is somewhat disturbing and does not fit within the cutting
  edge graphic display of what is happening 
 on screen.
  
  Creatures behaving badly is a good aspect of the game and
  deserves exploration, but taking into consideration that
  slapping might help, and in the game 
 it does, is even more
  disturbing. And that was the biggest part of the hype,
  that the game contained a management system for your
  creature displayed as being able to give 
 it care like
  children would deserve during their time of growing up.
  
  That is also the critical point of black &amp; white, as the
  name inflicts: you are in fact 
 seeing things in black and
  white, there unfortunately aren&acute; t any options in between.
  Maybe we will once be given 
 a chance to see things
  differently, with calculating power more than enough and
  we will be too smart to invest it in noble graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  I remember being sooo excited when i was buying this because i waited for sooooooooo long and what 
 hyped games normally do is disappoint me, however i just LOVED it and it more than delivered. Only 
 problem with it today is, i want to create armies and the shame is B&amp; W2 wasnt a improvement 
 of this game but a letdown.
  
  Thing bout Lionhead is when their games launched you wont really see alot of patches or expansions 
 or anything to support it, So your left with a buggy mess for good. Which was a shame because we 
 only got one poor expansion and a multiplayer that was chucked away pretty quickly.
  
  However this was a fantastic innovative game for its time and didn't really see this in any other 
 strat game before. It got fantastic reviews and praise from everyone i remember in Europe and i 
 agree with them all. I had sooo much fun with this game and i wont ever forget it.
  
  The gameplay was simple, your a god and you had to beat other gods and move to the next island 
 with your creature. Sometimes your creature would be captured and you'd have to save him etc etc. 
 Not the greatest story but it worked. There was funny side quests and great mini stories in the 
 game which i really loved.
  
  The Graphics were fantastic for the time and still playable today, however B&amp; W2 put it to shame 
 lol. The art was great and i couldn't fault it because there was sooo much attension to detail.
 
  
  The sounds were all fantastic and the funny music and everything was perfect.
  
  You can also pick it up for next to nothing these days which is great so go do so.
  
  Black 
 and White was one of the most innovative games i've played and pulled it off well, i just hope 
 they make a 3rd that combines this games with RTS armies and does it well.
  
  Everyone should try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thephoenix365
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 9, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Lets get one thing clear, this game is revolutionary from the outset.
  
  From the concept, playing a God with your own people to nurture. Your earthly presence is felt 
 through the miracles but also through the lovable cuddly bundle of pure evil you call your creature.
 
  
  Choosing any one of a number of creatures at the start of the game, you train them, teach them 
 and feed them until the grow into the animal you want.
  
  And that is where the fun truly begins: are you good or evil? The game has brilliant mechanics 
 and moral dilemmas that adjust the belief and behaviour of your followers, the looks of your hand 
 (mouse cursor) and the appearance of your creature. At 1st it seems simple, do nice things and 
 your good, heal people, save villagers etc. But what when you are being attacked by an evil god 
 and you need to take over his villages to get at him do you have the time or patience to do it 
 through healing spells?
  
  Often the easier route is to throw a flaming fireball at the opposing village and attempt to kill 
 off his believers and so stop his mana regeneration. But obviously do that too often and you risk 
 turning evil yourself, and all the painstaking progress towards the light side you made in earlier 
 missions is lost.
  
  However the game isn't quite infallible, if you kill, heal, kill, heal rpt then you can achieve 
 a neutral standing for that mission and move on.
  
  Also at its release the hardware requirements were fairly steep, and often i found the game slowing 
 and crashing on my old PC.
  
  That said its brilliantly innovative and great fun to play, and a true revolution for the day. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  B&amp; W is a great idea for a game. Where you play god to a village. Its almost like Sim City 
 but you play a little bit more god. Villagers bow down to you. But heres the best part about this 
 game do you want to be good or evil? Ying or Yang? Black or White? I most of the time choose good 
 because your characters respect you more and help you collect more. This game is along the lines 
 of in RTS because you gather food wood make villagers happy. Create houses. The sound in this game 
 is really good as well because you hear lots of little voices from your villagers. The gameplay 
 of this game never gets old! Its always something new coming up. The controls are really good 
 for the keyboard. There is some multiplayer in this game but its kind of stupid thats the only 
 bad part about this game. Besides the multiplayer theres not really anything this game lacks. 
 Its slightly older but for how old this game is these graphics are really good. The value of this 
 game shouldnt be too much I think I remember finding it for 5 dollars used. So its not too high 
 anymore. The only excuse not to get this game would be is if you dont like games where you play 
 god! But in the end this is one of the best PC games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anuebis
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 23, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  I found this game to be oh so fun. It simple satisfies tastes of several genres of game. Part Strategy, 
 part sim, part virtual pet. I have to admit I played this game after it's prime and because I was 
 tracking its successor. To my surprise this game was great. The only thing about this game that 
 seemed dated was the graphics. This didn't spoil the game for me. The graphics where on pare with 
 an N64 game or early ps2 game. Game play wise the game is awesome. The controls feel natural very 
 easy to use. I sometimes struggle with PC controls, being that I'm more inclined to Console games. 
 The premise of the game is, your a god and you want people to worship you. The more people that 
 worship you the more power you have. The worship system works effectively, all thought I found 
 my followers getting disillusioned fairly easily. That a side it works, you still are able to complete 
 the lose base missions with persistence. The game was is left open for you to explore and feel 
 free to play around with. Over I had a lot of fun. It was smart, funny, fun, and some what addicting. 
 I found it easy to lose myself to this game. I encourage you to pick up a copy if you haven't played 
 it. It probably wont run you more than 10 bucks being that its a few years old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 20, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This game takes the Populous game into another level.
  The concept is very different than army versus army type RTS. Its nice change for RTS fans. Some 
 sounds or game music are annoying but in this game they make me laugh even if I heard them hundreds 
 of times before. For sheer fun pickup one of your followers and drop them on top of an alter. The 
 graphics are rendered very well. Terrains are noticeable in all views. The details on your pets 
 are quite noticeable when he gets hurt. Another recommended move is to drop one of your followers 
 along a mountain. They actually roll down the mountain.
  The campaign mode is one of the longest I ever played, where some scenarios run a couple hours 
 in length if not more. I remember paying full price for this game and I would do it all over again. 
 In God Playing RTS this game it one of best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jan 15, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game when it first came out, about six years ago. From time to time I re-install 
 it and tinker around with it for a while before I remember why I never really enjoyed this game... 
 because it's not really a game - it's an exercise in developing a simple AI through react and response 
 stimuli - and that stimuli is your hand upside its head... oh, and you can feed your animal it's 
 own feces, too. Besides administering corporal punishment to a recalcitrant imaginary animal you 
 can complete busywork quests that never feel as if you are accomplishing much. If this is what 
 being a god is supposed to be like no wonder ours is so ticked off all the time... that is if you 
 believe in some all powerful deity in the first place, which you may or may not after wasting a 
 chunk of your existence on this garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChestyMcGee
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 23, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  Note - As this is now an old game, graphics are rated based on standards of the time.
  
  Black and White is a God game, and I don't mean like the Sims or Rollercoaster Tycoon that come 
 in this same category - this is a GOD GAME. You play as God, and it isn't as complicated as it 
 may sound.
  
  You take the role of God with your own personal name and symbol and you must look after the many 
 villages that are under your influence and take ones under a rival God's influence - or you can 
 torture your people and set fire to the enemys place of worship; it's up to you! But although 
 this may seem like an amazing feat for video games it is not as open ended as it may sound and 
 you soon find that the game plays like most other games of its genre. There are a few simple tutorials 
 to start you off and then youre on your own and after an hour (maybe less) you will have mastered 
 your techniques, but, like life, you are always learning in Black and White.
  
  The main asset in the game is your creature which you shape like you would a child, you pick from 
 three: A Tiger; an Ape; or a Cow. Each has its own strengths and weaknesses, for example, the Ape 
 is quick to learn but weaker than the other creatures. Your creature will lead you to rule over 
 the land as you can teach it to add resources to villages stock piles of food and wood and you 
 can teach it miracles (both good and bad) to show the villagers who the true God is.
  
  Sometimes I love this game, sometimes I hate it, the graphics are good (although not astounding) , 
 the gameplay is fun and light-hearted and the acting in the game is pretty good as far as games 
 go. Occasionally though, the camera can get very frustrating and the gameplay dull and repetitive, 
 all in all though, Black and White is a great addition to anyones collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  Black &amp; White is an almost impossible game to describe. Where do you start with a game that 
 enables you to control a god who battles not in blood and gore, but who attempts to convert 'worshipers' 
 and villagers to 'believe' in you? There are so many elements that combine to make this game such 
 an addictive and extraordinary experience that they cannot all be described in a few paragraphs. 
 At times, so many things occur at once in Black &amp; White that it seems overwhelming. Nevertheless, 
 as a reviewer I have to describe it as best as I can, and all reviews have to start somewhere. 
 Black &amp; White's basic premise involves a new-born god who has come to a world known simply 
 as Eden. This god arrives on Eden as result of a mother and father begging for a higher power to 
 save their drowning son. You arrive and in time to change their son's doomed fate. The trio then 
 lead you to their village and ask that you watch over them. (This is where you come in.) As this 
 god, it is up to you to expand the people's belief in you. To do this, you must use your abilities 
 as a god to influence the life of these humble villagers and others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkaddict1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Lionhead Studios has created one of the deepest customizable games I have ever played. Other The 
 Sims 2, Black &amp; White has had me the most obsessed with tuning my character and his pet I have 
 ever been.
  The premise is extremely simple, you are a deity who is in control of groups of humans. You are 
 able to shape the world to your whim and become a saintly god, or an evil one. Your creature can 
 do your bidding, and becomes the physical projection of your personality. The game takes a sharp 
 left turn into the complex here; how you train your creature determines how he grows, what spells 
 he learns determines how useful he is, how much attention to him you pay determines how lazy he 
 is, and on and on. No longer much simple, and that is just one small aspect of B &amp; W. Your 
 villages all have distinct personality and demand different resources, the missions range from 
 find the sheep , to save the village from the mysterious poison . While the missions become somewhat 
 redundant, and fighting the other gods for dominance isn't nearly as fun as tossing villagers across 
 mountains, the game does a good job of pulling you along through each level, which is what a good 
 game should do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StOcKoHeArTs
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 30, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  You are god or you could say a hand! you control a creature, make believers and destoy enimies.
 
  
  Gameplay: Quite hard gameplay theres a lot of buttons to press its sometimes annoying.
  
  Graphics: Very good because you can zoom rite in on the people but some blury its but not much.
 
  
  Sound : Wicked sound mostly voice acted great music and SFX!
  
  Value : At least over 40 hours there are a lot of challenges to do!
  
  Overall : If you like 
 fantasy games that are funny and yet enjoyable Game this is the one for you only like 4.99 now 
 i think!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahad2mail
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  As there are many games in the market u will be surprize that y this is so different? what have 
 in this game that make it so different than others. for ur kind information, this is the 1st game 
 in the whole game market where u have to play as a God. o yes, a god. imagine that, u r a god. things 
 change by ur wish. u can do whatever u want! thanks to lionhead studios fr making such an awsome 
 game. it is really hard to describe u how the game is. i try to shortcut. as i told u b4, u have to 
 play this game as a god. as a god, u have many supernatural power. in game, u can see only ur hand 
 by moving ur mouse coursor. u can control it with ur mouse, can cast magic, can hold something, or 
 can draw something from ur hand. there are two charecter in this game, one is evil n one is good. they 
 allawayz advice u in their different wayz. like good advice in good n bad in bad. owwww, i forget 
 to tell u. there is a amazing thing in this game dude. a creature. from the very biggening of the 
 game, u have to select one creature from 3, i tiger, a monkey and a cow. they r baby! ya. u have to 
 train him. u can train him whatever u want. u can make him rude, or u can make him polaite. all is 
 in ur hand. like when he do something wrong, u can bit him. so he will understand what is wrong. he 
 will eat food, he became tired. thats really amazing right dude? one day he bacame a big creature. n 
 he can spell magic as u. u have to teach him. he will be ur second in command. one thing important. to 
 cast spell u need worship. for this u need villegers or people to worship at ur temple. remember 
 when they prayer for u, they need food. so supply this. two item is main in this game. one is food 
 n another is wood. so u have to collect this item. u can make farm .u can make people fisherman, or 
 make them farmet. just hold n drom near the desire place. so u now think that u r tha only one n 
 wil be sit in rest. no my dear. there are many other gods they r trying all the time to spread their 
 kingdom. so u r not all alone lol..... ur job is ,to control as many village as possible. thats called 
 ur territory. u cant cast spell in opponents territori. u can cast spell by select ur alter or make 
 this sign by ur hand moving ur mouse cursor. dude thats rock! n for ur kind information, the game 
 is openminded. its depend on u to how the game going forroward. ur one dicission can make the whole 
 things different. really amazing right? enjoy it. its a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDutch
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  When you first arrive on the island. You help the local people to finish the building of your very 
 own temple. After the temple is finished you are being teached how you need to get arround. After 
 you have all done that, than it's time to take things in your own hand. You can be a nice god and 
 help your people when they need some help. And be nice to them. Or you choose the side of evil, 
 and be mean to them. Or even kill them, if you would like. It's your choose. It depends on the 
 choises you make if the people are gonna like you, or fear you. After a while you can choose your 
 creature (tiger, mokey, cow) and you will learn how the interract with eachtother. After you alle 
 have done that, there will come a mean god, Nemessis. And you will be transported to an other world. 
 Where you can compeet with one enemy god. (There is also a friendly god there, so your not standing 
 allone there) There the story realy starts. You need to conquer the other villages, so your realm 
 wil be expanded. But at the same time, you need to make sure they still belive in you, otherwise 
 the village goes to another god. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Kantor
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 10, 2006 2:33 am PT
Review:  This game is okay, but that's just about it. The graphics are awful, the tutorial is far too long, 
 and control is not easy. However, there is a decent storyline, and the game hardly ever gets stuck. 
 Don't be put off by the first part, the storyline does get better. The area you can move around 
 is very small, but what you can do increases as the game goes on. Basically, you are a god, and 
 the object is to try and get as much belief as possible, by good means or bad. You have two advisers 
 an angel and a devil, and near the start, you get a creature. Like i said, the storyline improves, 
 but before not long, you will be bored of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthonyguy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 21, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  If you want a simulation game with a lot of fun, different ways to play, and your the strategy 
 fan, then you are gonna have a good time with this game.
  
  Sound: I thought the sound was extremely good, the characters are very well done, the special effects 
 are amazing, and Black and White were hilarious. They programed the game so well. They add a response 
 to everything thing you do uniquely.
  
  Graphics: I'm reviewing this game now and for this time, the graphics are not that good and odd 
 looking. BUT if you were to buy this game in 2001 and compare it with other strategy games, you 
 would be totaly amazed. The people are done so well, the houses look great, and the environment 
 is phenomenal.
  
  Gameplay: This is not a game that is easy. You must build houses, raise people, grow crops, and 
 the people are very greedy. Sometimes you don't know what to do, and the worst part is, the controls 
 are HORRIBLE!!!
  
  Well, all I gotta say is this game is for people who have experienced many rts games and tbs games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Gundam01
Rating: 3.9
Date: Aug 16, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  This is quite possibly the most disastrous games Ive ever played in my entire life. Look at my 
 collection; Ive played a lot of games.
  
  The Good
  
  Great idea. The only reason this game has any playability is the idea of the game is amazing. it 
 does drawn you in to wanting to play more just for progress on the story.
  
  The Bad
  
  There is lots, lets start with the interface, or lack thereof. Since there is not interface, you 
 must rely on solely on some hot keys and your ability to write with a mouse. This part, i couldn't 
 stand, the game never knew what i was trying to write. It would be a pivotal battle with a creature 
 attacking my land and kept making the spell for the wrong thing. Very frustrating.
  
  The second is the creature, the stupid bastard is un-trainable. It could easily take the entire 
 game to teach him 1 spell and even then, he'd never use it. Training him was impossible. He never 
 used his magic even if you did exactly what the trainer told you to do, he never listened, he was 
 unreliable, and basically a waste of a potentially amazing feature.
  
  Third is resources: I found myself unable to gather resources in the level because they would run 
 out very quickly or people just simply couldn't gather them fast enough. Planting trees was useless 
 because you couldnt' plant enough to sustain a growing population. Food took too long to gather 
 and couldn't expand to meet a growing populace also. The worshipers would never be able to get 
 their own food and, of course, your creature can't use HIS powers cause hes RETARDED.
  
  Fourth is the overall micromanagement. It became impossible to govern more than 2 providences at 
 any given time. If at any point you'd send your creature cross map to battle a foe or try to impress 
 a village (usually in vain) , you'd come back after the 3 minute battle to find all the people you 
 have as worshipers dead from starvation. The people could also not build their own homes so you 
 were constantly gathering resources for your town, making those stupid box frames, then putting 
 them where you could fit in your tiny, tiny area to work with. Nothing in between.
  
  Other: dude, seriously, I dont' need to see every damn video. why did you make the throwing aspect 
 glitchy. Why does the game crash all damn day.
  
  The Bottom Line
  
  This is one of only 4 games where i refused to justify the games existences by beating it. I came 
 down to the very last level and said, "no, I refuse to beat you." It was the worst $50 Ive ever 
 spent. They corrected these problems in B&W 2; that game, ironically, tops my all time top 20 list 
 as best games ever. This game is horrible, i hate it and the people who think its good. I don't 
 understand what Gamespot could have POSSIBLY been thinking when they gave such an obviously tedious 
 and poorly made game such a high rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  This game is not one you should get unless you really like Rts games, and its not as good as i 
 hoped for.
  
  STORY: it starts out with a kid being drowned in the water and You have to decide if you want to 
 save him or let him drown. (you have a good side and a bad side to you at all times, such as the 
 devil and god) their are eight different tribes in Black & White: Aztec, Celtic, Egyptian, Greek, 
 Indian, Japanese, Norse, and Tibetan.
  
  GRAPHICS: ahh great for the time, and now there still pretty good.
  
  ENTERTAINMENT: Decent 
 graphics, great sound, cool creatures, Total worship from your people, and virtually every facet 
 of your followers' lives you control, whats not to like? well my main gripe is about doing the 
 boring thing over and over again for same old thing over and over again with out change 5 levels 
 (of course i have only played 2 levels and gave up after that, i know its that much becuase iv 
 read about it.) so that means all those worlds being the same execpt for the shape of the land. 
 and also this game is just so slow and so boring at times i just could not take it anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akeru3
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  Where to begin this game is just outstanding i bought this game 5 years ago and I am currently 
 still playing it. The story line is entertaining basicly your a god who sent down from the heaven 
 to rule over these people. And that is the story in one sentence. The most amazing feature on this 
 game is the fact that you can choose from either being evil or good. Also you get creatures that 
 you can train and take care of and if you do that right they can grow tremendosly big. The graghics 
 are pretty good for the year it was made but now with all these new games they make B&W graghics 
 look like boxes. Its a very easy game to understand and is pretty self explanitory from learning 
 how to play to doing missions. This game takes a quite a bit of time to complete but it will always 
 keep you entertained and addicted. I highly recommend this game and it is a must have for gamers 
 it is just mind blowing and will have you playing for hours and hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GromHellskream4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  B&W is a sandbox type game where you are the god and control the lives of many villages and the 
 countless people who live in them. The amazing thing about B&W is that it does an increbible job 
 with the "You choose everyones Fate" kind of thing. You can either be Benevolent or Malicious. 
 Its all your choice, how you do your missions ( that are totaly optional) and what actions you take 
 against your followers. For example if a woman askes you to help her find her sick brother out 
 in the woods you can either help her and reap the rewards of such kindness, or kill her brother 
 give the body to her and ransack her house. Its all up to you. Another thing about B&W is the ability 
 to choose creatures to fight your enemies or just take care of. You can teach your creature to 
 be evil or good, whatever you want., you can teach it what to eat, what to play with, when to sleep... pretty 
 much anything your heart desires. You get to pick your creature fairly early on in the game ther 
 are many creatures to choose from, from a cow to a tiger. Each creature has its advantages and 
 disadvantages. and they change on if there evil or good, such as if your goat is evil it grows 
 devil-looking curly horns, but if nice it forgoes the headgear.
  The graphics arent great, i mean you can tell what everything is but ther is not very much detail 
 to faces and they all look a little too polygonish. Sound is alright but i wasnt blown away. But 
 it is all made up for in the gameplay of this terrific game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandiarules
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  When I first rented this game I did'nt know how very addictive it was. I lost the addiction with 
 in the week of buying the game yes it is good to be god but not when you lose all your followers 
 to starvation or fatigue then you lose your power. I did'nt really like the animal part it was too 
 much for me, my animal would eat the villagers and I would punish it but it did no good. I always 
 restart the game when my animal turns out to be stupid. other then that I really enjoy this game 
 it is a very special game there is no others like it is a one of a kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shuiken_Blade
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 17, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7
  
  All you pretty much have to do is take care of a pet and do a few quests. I said that it takes 
 1-2 hours to learn what to do because you seem to always be going through a tutroial in the game.
 
  
  Graphics: 7
  
  I gave the graphics a 7 because they are outdate. No frame rate problems. They're alright
  
 
  Sound: Some really annoying sounds in the game. Your "concience" in the game can be really annoying.
 
  
  Value: 8
  
  B and W is a very cheap game, but its still not the best game out there.
  
  In conclusion, 
 Black and White is a game thats worth playing if you want to feel like god. Its not bad or good. 
 It's worth a try, so give this game a try. I recomend it, even though im annoyed with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 26, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  In Black & White, you take the role of a god. In the beginning of the game you rescue a young boy 
 from the sharks and then the village people worship you. You can help them out, to work your way 
 on becoming a good god, or be evil and merciless to become an evil god. You'll also meet your "conscience" 
 which are two little guys who help you out. Good and evil. One is an angel and the other a demon. 
 The angel will influence you to do the right thing but the demon will influence you to perform 
 the opposite.
  
  You also get a creature early in the game. You can choose between a giant cow, ape, or cheetah 
 and then you raise them up. This is one of the neatest and funnest parts of Black & White. The 
 creatures can also fight and you can go online and fight people online or with LAN. This is fun 
 too.
  
  The graphics, now look very outdated. For March 2001's PC standards they were top-notch but looking 
 at it now there are many noticable flaws from the few in game glitches right down to the horrible 
 character models with webbed hands and feet. Still, this was great by then and you can't judge 
 a five year old game by today's standards. The atmosphere and level design remains to look pretty 
 nice too.
  
  As for the sound and music, it holds up pretty well. The voice acting is pretty well done. The 
 villagers mainly have English accents which is kind of strange, but maybe because this game was 
 made in the U. K.? I have no idea where it was made but then a lot of Chinese/Japanese fighting 
 games have American voices out here so it's probably just because I don't live in the U. K. So, 
 the voices are all well done and the conscience's voices really fit them. The music also really 
 fits the environment.
  
  This game has got me addicted, I haven't even had it for a week and I go and play it every day. 
 It's very fun but at first the controls are frustrating to get used to. So overall, Black & White 
 is a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 22, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  Black and white is probably the most unique game of its time. Giving you the status of a GOD! And 
 to top it off you have your own worshippers you own villages and ones you can take over. Not to 
 mention you have your own creature in which you can teach to be good or nasty. He can even learn 
 spells! You yourself has to cast these spells in front of him and vwala, he gains small percentages 
 depending on which animal you got. Its great because you go head to head with other gods and wage 
 combat with your creature then try to take his towns through impressing them to belive in you. 
 I would definately recommend this game to anyone of any interest in games its worth checking out.
 
  
  And its definately got some replay value because you yourself can be good or bad depending on your 
 actions and thus once you beat it on good just turn around and play it again but be evil! Its very 
 much worth it to do so cause being good and being evil are very very very diffrent. But if you 
 havent played this game yet do it because its worth every penny. 
  
  (NOTE: The date that I am reviewing this game I am judging everything and writing this review as 
 if it just came out so bare with me on the graphics front and such lol) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemyth
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  B&W breaks ground on so many levels. When I say break-ground I mean more re-defines. The graphics 
 while not being the highest of the high are most definatly well over the average. The AI is stellar 
 and the gameplay, while sometimes tedious, overall simply blows me away. The abillity to train 
 your own creature to react on his own is something that i've not come across in any other game. 
 
  
  I admit that my first time through i hosed things up a bit and didn't think much about the game 
 but it was later that I realized it was simply because I trained my citizens to be lazy and dependent 
 upon me as well as my creature and I didnt' train my creature to figure things out on his own. 
 
  
  This game really shines once you get the hang of it it and allows for a huge amount of replayability. 
 Definatly the best "god" game i've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonlavi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 16, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  When I first played Black and White, I loved it. The graphics where charming,
  the characters where funny, and the game was great (like ive mentioned now.) .
  
  Now, like 
 five years later, the game isnt that good anymore. Now, the graphics are average, the game itself 
 is positioned behind 
  Black and White 2, and it does not attract me as much as before.
  Still, this game is superb, despite all these things. Lionhead is soo good at making sim-games, 
 and this is one of the best.
  
  The voice-actors are great, and the music and effects as well.
  
  You can be good, and you 
 can be bad. Own your own pet or, as BandW call it, a "creature". 
  
  Youre playing as a god, and can use powers like rain, fireballs and super-shields. Its fun to 
 use them, but hard to summon some of them.
  
  Anywway, great game. Buy it. Its a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BowlingBadger
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 8, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  In the game Black and White you are a god and your goal is to defeat Nemeses with Khazar as your 
 ally. Throughout the game you will be tested on how quick you are and how well you can use your 
 miracles. The tutorial is quite long, but the first time through it really helps. You get to pick 
 from 3 creatures, A monkey, A Tiger, or a Cow. (Personally, I pick the monkey) . They grow and as 
 they grow you can teach them what to eat, to be good or evil and even how to cast miracles. You 
 too can decide to me good or evil, when you are evil your temple spikes up and when your are good.... when 
 you are good, I don't know because I have never been good. Overall, Black and White is an awesome 
 original game that can not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamauldi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 2, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I just simply love this game because there is just simply so much to do. I even like this game 
 better than second one for a couple of reasons. One, there are more creatures to choose from, so 
 I have wide selection in case I only have one favorite. However, I have several favorites: the 
 zebra, the horse, the rhino, the chicken, and the crocodile; although the chicken and the crocodile 
 does not appear in the original game. Second, there is so much to teach your creature, and most 
 of the learning experience comes from teaching him how to do miracles. Lastly, the controls for 
 this game eventually get easy in the process of learning how to play the game. If one needs more 
 help on that, they can always go to the Skirmish Games option for some more training. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AutisticAngel
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 25, 2006 3:09 am PT
Review:  Project lead Peter Molyneux promised a great deal with his new god game Black & White, and considering 
 the man single-handedly invented the genre with the classic Populous, theres been a huge amount 
 of anticipation during the projects development. The variety and scope of the intended features 
 have been mind-blowingly ambitious, ranging from quest objectives with over thirty possible outcomes 
 to the ability to travel back in time, change a key decision, and then return to the present to 
 see how things might have been different. Stunning! Revolutionary! And, unfortunately, hugely disappointing 
 to gamers everywhere when they discover that not only were many of those promised features quietly 
 dropped from production, the core play mechanics are so poorly executed that there just isnt much 
 of a game here.
  
  Like Populous before it, Black & White casts you in the role of a newborn god capable of wielding 
 incredible power so long as your worshippers believe in you enough. The more people you have and 
 the more impressed they are by your displays of divine ability, the further youll be able to project 
 your miracles to bring other villages under your influence. The wrinkle is in how you choose to 
 demonstrate your existence: miracles can include gentle showers of wondrous rain for growing crops, 
 or fireballs which can immolate people alive and burn their homes into ash. Both are effective 
 ways to inspire mortals to devote themselves to your worship, so much of the game is supposed to 
 hinge on the moral decisions you make about how to treat your people, how to resolve the games 
 many quests, and how to save yourself from the aggressions of a dark god intent on snuffing out 
 every other deity in Creation.
  
  The problem is that these moral choices almost never have a compelling affect on the game play, 
 and when they do, the outcomes are so obviously one-sided that the decision feels more like Do 
 I want to do something foolish here? An excellent example is one early quest which tasks you with 
 deciding whether or not to save a group of villagers who are drowning in the ocean. Rescuing them 
 requires little effort and rewards you with a useful new miracle dispenser, while leaving them 
 to die subjects you to several minutes of agonized spluttering and no benefit whatsoever. You can 
 also choose throughout the game to violently mistreat people within your influence, but considering 
 that the source of your power is directly linked to your population levels, youre actually just 
 depleting your own resources for absolutely no reason. For a game thats supposed to be all about 
 exploring where your moral compass will take you, the creators of Black & White seem to believe 
 that Good results from basic wisdom while Evil consists of cruelty performed purely for the 
 sake of short-sighted malice. A real ethical dilemma exists when a person is forced to weigh the 
 natural inclination to act in their own self-interest against the costs of taking advantage of 
 others in the process. This compelling struggle was well represented in previous games like Baldurs 
 Gate and Icewind Dale where noble or selfish behavior frequently came with their own unique rewards 
 and consequences, but Black & White players will quickly realize there always seems to be one correct 
 choice.
  
  Having missed the mark so dramatically on the opportunity to offer interesting game play opportunities 
 to explore the facets of power and accountability, succeeding in Black & White mostly comes down 
 to your willingness to keep your people supplied with room and board while breeding them as rapidly 
 as possible. Imagine a version of SimCity where the only two meaningful building options were large 
 or small houses and youve got a pretty good idea of how village management works here. Technically 
 people can be assigned specific tasks, such as working the fields or carrying wood from the storehouse 
 to the workshop, but these workers are so single-minded that they tend to work themselves into 
 an early grave while accomplishing only a small fraction of what your food or wood miracles could 
 do in an instant. The result, which has you toiling away night and day to provide for your peoples 
 seemingly insatiable desire for mountains upon mountains of food, leaves you feeling more like 
 a divinely fueled servant than a god. The fact that the little ingrates will still decide youre 
 evil if you fail to adequately protect them from harm triggered by a scripted game event causes 
 this aspect of the game to wear thin very quickly.
  
  For all the things there are to criticize in Black & White, the feature which has justifiably earned 
 most of its praise is the Creature: a large anthropomorphic animal governed by his own desires, 
 preferences, and personality in one of the most astonishingly well implemented artificial intelligences 
 ever seen in a retail product. The game starts with access to three different Creatures and each 
 is unique. The cow is docile and tends to be naturally good with the villagers, while the ape is 
 intelligent enough to learn many miracles very quickly and will curiously experiment with things 
 to see what they can do. Finally, the tiger can be easily frustrated or angered when things dont 
 go his way and is a natural carnivore, but is also speedier and stronger fighter than many of his 
 peers. This initial choice turns out to be a temporary one as playing the game can unlock over 
 a dozen other types of Creatures, each with his own individual strengths and weaknesses.
  
  Your Creature grows up as you play, seamlessly transforming from a small baby into a skyscraper-sized 
 goliath over the course of dozens of hours. Wounds from combat leave scars on his body he can carry 
 for a lifetime, while his likes and dislikes will slowly change to reflect the lessons youve taught 
 him and even the behavior hes witnessed from you all on his own. Creatures are emotional too, 
 becoming discouraged when they have trouble performing a new miracle, wandering out to explore 
 the landscape when theyre bored, or seeking your notice when theyre lonely. And, just like a 
 child, they may even act out by doing something they know theyre not supposed to if youre not 
 attentive enough. Just a few hours of play will be enough to begin molding his height, weight, 
 strength, and temperament into a Creature noticeably distinct from one raised by most anyone else. 
 
  
  Of all the games different quests, only a handful near the beginning of the game allow his participation 
 and even then only to help you grow accustomed to interacting with him. Creatures cannot be controlled 
 directly, but they can be focused using three different leashes which encourage aggressive, gentle, 
 or curious behavior. This simple system allows you to help your Creature learn a new miracle by 
 performing it while hes attached to the Learning Leash, or ask him to hurl a stone by right-clicking 
 on a target while hes on the Spiked Leash. A big part of his training will involve rewarding him 
 for appropriate behavior by gently petting him up and down with your mouse when he does something 
 you like, or giving him a swat (or punch!) on the nose if he does something naughty. Eventually, 
 all of this training will be useful when it comes time to send your Creature into a village outside 
 your current influence and allow him to implement what hes learned as he tries to impress the 
 people into worshipping you. He can even battle the Creatures of enemy gods in a simplistic, but 
 quite entertaining spoof of many Street Fighter-esque fighting games. Black & White may be a god 
 game, but the Creature here is such a star that hell have many players happily overlooking the 
 titles other deficiencies for many, many hours.
  
  The games interface is also very well executed. One of the real innovations here is Black & Whites 
 gesture recognition system which allows players to perform miracles simply by moving their mouse 
 to draw a certain pattern and trigger the affect. Easy and intuitive, this gesture recognition 
 can be bypassed through the use of standard keyboard shortcuts or by just grabbing the appropriate 
 miracle icon off the temple, but few players will want to pass on the experience of literally carving 
 their miracles out of thin air with their hand. Otherwise the game uses a unified system where 
 the left mouse button is always used to move around the world while the right mouse button interacts 
 with things, allowing the player to pick up, drop, toss, tap, spin, and break things with ease. 
 One has to wonder, though, if the design teams determination to create a game with as basic an 
 interface as possible didnt wind up limiting the variety of in-game quests, strategies, or construction 
 projects there are in the game.
  
  Black & Whites graphics are excellent for their time, capable of rendering vast landscapes of 
 stony mountains and welcoming green fields spotted with forests of trees swaying gently in the 
 breeze. The color palette is heavily influenced by your ethical alignment, meaning that dawn for 
 a painstakingly kind and generous god will be heralded by a glorious violet sunrise which breaks 
 into a bright, warm, and cheerful day. An evil god, on the other hand, would be witness to a grey 
 and dismal daybreak of under a sky tinged with an ominous crimson hue. Special recognition goes 
 to the Creatures which undergo gradual, but dramatic evolutions to reflect their shifts in height, 
 fitness, and alignment: from hunched over, mottled, twisted beasts to bright, playful, and noble 
 animals that literally glow in the dark, every one will be as unique as the player raising him. 
 The humans in the game dont fare quite as well since zooming down to ground level will reveal 
 that they consist of so few polygons and textured, they look more like two genders of identical 
 human-shaped burlap sacks. Thankfully, unless youre watching one of the quest-related cut scenes, 
 youre unlikely to spend much time observing them up close, and their simplistic models allows 
 for literally hundreds of them to be wandering about the villages at a time. They never speak amongst 
 themselves which makes congregations sound a lot less boisterous than youd expect, but the game 
 otherwise has a strong assortment of different audio effects for everything from drowning to fires 
 to the drum beat of a tribal ritual dance.
  
  It seems odd to suggest that a game which was delayed years beyond its originally projected release 
 date could have used even more time in development, but the fact is that Black & White was released 
 in an unfinished state that multiple patches have failed to rectify. The game is rife with stability 
 problems, particularly in the second world where saving the game can inexplicably take upwards 
 of two or three minutes and crash out to the Windows desktop partway through the process. Another 
 continuing source of irritation is the way your villagers will constantly complain that they need 
 more food, even if their village store contains enough supplies to keep them fat and happy for 
 generations to come. Fortunately, several other bizarre bugs, including one which would drag your 
 Creatures alignment towards Evil if he ate any fish, and another which left him irreparably damaged 
 in the fifth world have been fixed by the games post-release patches.
  
  In the realm of artificially intelligent characters, Black & White is a success of unparalleled 
 proportions. The Creatures are the stars of this game, clearly establishing the cutting edge of 
 adaptable, trainable AI companions and making them fascinating and fun to interact with throughout 
 the game. How unfortunate, then, that they arent starring in a better title. As a strategy game, 
 only a few hours of play will rapidly reveal that the only path to victory is to treat your own 
 people incredibly well so you can spread your influence as far and as fast as possible. It fails 
 as an exploration of morality for the same reasons: unlike other games which understand that altruistic 
 selflessness and petty, malicious greed can each be treated as distinct paths to personal gain, 
 the very nature of Black & Whites economic and quest systems make evil behavior self-defeating. 
 Where is the satisfaction in devoting yourself to goodness when theres absolutely no temptation 
 to take a darker approach? These are the sorts of questions Black & Whites designers forgot to 
 ask, and in so doing, lost sight of the games focus and left it to become a fascinating idea which 
 goes almost completely unrealized. The Creatures alone could make this title worth checking out 
 for some people, but anyone seeking a competent strategy game is advised to look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frontball
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 24, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Black and White is far too intriguing a game to pass up. As soon as I heard that the player was 
 given the ability to BE a god, I had to get it!
  
  Onto the game. Black and White is the most innovative strategy game I've seen yet. As a god, you 
 have all of the miraculous abilities of the heavens at your command. With your godly hand, you 
 can manipulate the environment at your will. Tearing up trees, tossing rocks, and helping the villagers 
 bring in the harvest. Villagers that believe in you will come to your temple to pray to you, thus 
 building a reserve of belief that fuels your miracles. These miracles range from miraculous rain, 
 healing, and production of resources from nothing, to terrible lightning, fireballs, and storms.
 
  
  Alongside your direct form of interaction, you are supplied with a creature. This creature is a 
 giant, bipedal form of an earthly animal (you are given a choice of 3 at the start, but you can 
 unlock and download more as you go) . You have to teach the creature how to act by being a role 
 model and rewarding or punishing you creature. The amazing part of this is how your creature picks 
 up on how you govern the land and tries to imitate you. If it sees you watering the villagers' 
 fields or miraculously producing resources, it will try its best to help your worshippers. If it 
 sees you ignoring the village's cries for food and killing villagers as an example for all, it 
 will become a fearsome manifestation of your inner evil. It will eventually learn to feed itself 
 and work without your guidance to spread the word of your power, but it takes time to teach it.
 
  
  The appealing part of the game is the choice to be good or evil. Either way, you can win the game. 
 Your range of influence (built by villagers that believe in you) reflects your nature. A good god 
 will have a land of sunshine with a shining, white temple and a friendly creature that gives off 
 an aura of light. An evil god will have a land of blood red skies with a mighty, jagged tower of 
 darkness and a creature built for destruction and terror. As a good god, you influence people to 
 believe in you through acts of kindness and wondrous miracles. As an evil god, you teach your people 
 to fear you through ignorance of their needs and constant examples of your fury. 
  
  The graphics in the game are beautifully done. The reflective value of alignment is amazing to 
 see and the relative detail on each object is very good considering how much content one map can 
 eventually contain. The miracles are wonderfully detailed as well. The game does have a fairly 
 obvious wrapped polygon look to it with nothing much more than that, but it does well in that.
 
  
  The sound can't be complained about. The music for each tribe and your own "godly theme" is well 
 suited to its purpose. The voices of each villager are nicely done and repitition is never really 
 a problem (until later in a map when all your villagers do is cry for food) . 
  
  Overall, this game is an absolute delight to play. The fun missions to complete and the annexing 
 of each land never get old. Although, some missions leave a relatively open end with no guidance 
 on how to obtain a reward, but they are few. If you haven't tried this game (or just want to skip 
 on to Black and White 2) , you HAVE to try this one first.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: webmessia
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 21, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Black and White is a geate game where you can be good, or evil. Gain villages belief by cursing 
 them with destruction or showering them with mircicles. 
  
  One of the most important things is Black and White, is your creature. You get a challange indicated 
 by a Silver (minor) or Gold (major) Scroll. You have to find 3 gate stones, to open a gate. Then 
 you go through the gate and find 3 creatures. A Monkey the Inteligent , a Tiger the Strong, and 
 a Cow the noble. But you can only keep one. Once you have picked your creature you can train it 
 to fish, chop wood, cast miricles and many more. You can train it Using the leash of inteligence. 
 The lease can be used to direct your creature. There are 2 other leashs. The leash of Compasion 
 that makes your creature friendly, and the leash of Aggresion that makes your creature not friendly.
 
  
  You can throw stuff around or pick stuff up using your kand. Then hand in kind of like a cursor. 
 You will find your self going through many tasks, battling many Gods. But if you dont feel like 
 going with the story line just play a skirmish game. but the one problem with the game is the fact 
 its almost imposible to do an online game.
  
  This is another Review by Webmessia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 19, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Black and White is one of the best PC games out. It starts off with a family on an island with 
 many villagers. The family goes by the beach where their boy swims out to sea. Sharks circle around 
 the boy while the mom prays to the heavens. Apparently, whenever someone prays, a god is always 
 born, being able to change reality. That god is you. You rescue the child, and are taken to the 
 village. After a while, you get to choose a creature. There are 3 creatures: A monkey, a tiger, 
 and a cow. As a god, you can do many things, such as help villagers, cast miracles, ect. There 
 are many miracles that you can cast, and by casting miracles, your creature can learn to cast them 
 too! A cool feature to this game is that you are either good or evil. The miracles and things you 
 do, depend on whether you're good or evil. Your creature can be good or evil too. The game succeeds 
 greatly because of its many features and unique ideas! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon_Crusher
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 15, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  An extraordinary adventure in a unexplored game play...
  Imagine you ... a god... you decided if the people at your command work in the fields, or became 
 a constructor.
  You have to make miracles to make the people believe in you... if there are some that don't you 
 can always create a fire ball an put im in flames or pike it and put it in the ocean...
  In this game you can follow the good or the bad side, and that decides your creature appearance, 
 your creature can learn miracles and use them to create lumber... or if it is in the bad side it 
 can make some fire balls to destroy everything in its way.
  This would be simple but there are some problems like other goods whit they're creature, and your 
 are of miracles range depends on the people believe... so... destroy they're creature, burn the 
 enemies village or conquer them whit people believe, and destroy their god.
  But you can always put tribal images in your creature teach it or make the other missions.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 9, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  The A. I. is actually intelligent. It learns much like a virtual pet. If you don't want your beast 
 eating villagers, just slap him when he does it. If you want it to eat them, give him a nice rub 
 (but not too close near his wang) .
  Awesome looking water and landscapes. A good amount of detail in the graphic/sound department.
 
  Grabbing that hippy in the shack near the singing rocks and making him fall down the tallest 
 mountain. Then you can make his skeleton body dance in the city square.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  The multiplayer isn't really what it could have been. Not enough strategy involved in winning.
 
  Some graphical glitches and heavy system requirments.
  Letting those singing guys at the boat sail away without either killing them or sinking their 
 boat.
  
  :Overall:
  You can kill hippies. I don't know many games that allow you to kill hippies besides Postal. Seriously, 
 B&W is a game not to be haggled with. It's a fun, addicting game. Just like a tycoon game, you 
 can do whatever you want but you'll more than likely end up fighting for your land. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 9, 2006 12:06 am PT
Review:  Black and White is amazing because of it's gameplay and ability to create and manage a creature 
 of your own. Here is my review of Lionhead Studios Black and White. Black and White is about you 
 becoming a god and controlling tribes, people and land. You must defeat other gods through magic, 
 spells, generosity and so on.
  
  Gameplay: Perfect gameplay I really like the gameplay and the way it's set out as a RTS game.
 
  
  Graphics: Great graphics which are really good for 2001anyway.
  
  Sound: Great sound which again I really like because of the kind of atmosphere around the game.
 
  
  Value: This is the game you should buy if you want it to last.
  
  Tilt: I extremely recommend that you buy this game if you are a RTS fan.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeMagnion2
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  This game was suprisingly fun. At first i thought ' playing as a god? sounds tacky but watever'. 
 when i got into the gameplay and started to use my powers, i was instantly blown away giving you 
 the power of a god in a tiny mouse is absolutly amazing. The graphics are top of the notch during 
 its time. the story has no flaws wat so ever, altho it is sort of hard to understand. there is 
 infinite gameplay and many secrets to be found. being able to control a giant of a creature is 
 new to some, treating it as a spawn of your own good or evil. teaching it spells, wat to eat, wat 
 to do or not do, if u think that this aint cool and fun, just dont evn bother reading on ok?
  Sacrifices and powers beyond your your control ina mouse man! i mean, can it get ane funner than 
 this?
  i reccomend this to EVERYBODY!!!!!!
  you wont regret it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sew015
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 10, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  Black and White one of those games that when you first hear about its gameplay you say "huh?" But, 
 the game is fairly good! You assume the role of some random gods from the heavens who represents 
 itself in the form of a hand or glowing symbol. The point of the game is too gain influence which 
 means gather followers. The game gives playeres certain powers over: fire, wood, water, lightning, 
 food, and other things to impresse humans, also you will a giant creature to fight other rival 
 gods. The game has a well written story, and voice acting was done quite well. The graphics and 
 music are supurb!!
  
  This game is great for someone with a lot of free time, and patience. But well worth the time.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: T00HuMaN
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 3, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  black and white is a good fun game! but since the 2nd in the series has already came out i would 
 just get that one. this is a fun game with decent graphics but the gameplay just isnt that great, 
 it can be difficult to move around and stuff, the right way. I would defintly look into buying 
 the 2nd if you were thinking about this. i have not played online but herd it isnt great. so i 
 would not recomend getting this game although it can be fun! Get the second in the series!! There 
 are way better games out right now so dont get this one. plus the phics arent that great! but it 
 can be fun to throw people around but they dont always die! so wait on Black and White!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willdemers
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 1, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  Black & White was an extremely ambitious game and revolutionary game for 2001. The game essentially 
 grants the player extraordinary control over a world and it's inhabitants.
  
  Naturally, you are not as powerful as a real diety, but you do seem to have god-like abilities. 
 You can uproot trees, throw people around in the air, harvest grain or hurl rocks at villagers 
 that worship other dieties.
  
  The game is pretty sweet and the main campaign is very enjoyable. The only problem I ran into was 
 a few problems with some missions and eventually a situation where I was unable to progress in 
 the game. I'm not sure if that was because of a bug or because I screwed up my game by abusing 
 all my villagers... yeah... but It was a pretty sweet game as I remember.
  
  I especially enjoyed the ability to choose a creature to be your pet (or servant) and help (or 
 terrorize) humans who worshipped you as their God.
  
  This game is great, but Black & White 2 is out and has added some new interesting elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daffyduffer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  The game is good, but it is very hard, because I can't get my creature to impress the other villagers. 
 And there are not many single player maps, as there are only 4 maps. But it is still fun to play 
 with my creature. I think Black & White 2 is easier to start out with. I have the expansion pack 
 - Creature isle - which is easier. i'm looking for to the new wxpansion pack for B&W 2. 
  I think this game is good for 9 - 15 yr olds - I found it too hard when I was 8. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  I have seen many user reviews saying the graphics and that are rubbish, my I say that it is a 5 
 year old game and to me it still looks fantastic! Anyway, here is my review of Peter Molyneux's 
 Black & White for PC.
  
  Gameplay: The game plays very nicely, it's quite simple and there are lots of things to do. Side 
 quests along with the story quests as well. You also have a good and evil consience which is pretty 
 cool. Sometimes though, it can get very, very frustrating and some of the missions are all too 
 similar. The creature though is the big joy of this game, I also enjoyed throwing villagers off 
 cliffs-definately a high light of this game! This game is very basic in the way it's played though, 
 not much skill is really needed, not that that's a bad thing as it's still a cool game.
  
  Graphics: When this was first released the graphics were absolutely breathtaking, no one had seen 
 graphics like this. In my view, they still look fantastic-the animation is good, the effects of 
 spells are amazing and the creature and landscape are very detailed. The only negative feature 
 is that the villagers are no where near as detailed as other parts of the game like the creature 
 is. This is just me nit-picking now though as it still looks great.
  
  Sound: I wasn't too sure about the music, it sometimes doesn. t go with the scenes you are wathcing. 
 The spells sound ok but its the good and mr evil that er the stars. Both are excellently voiced 
 and make up for the poor music.
  
  Value: Well, I bought it for a fiver and I would reccomend you do the same. It's a fantastic game 
 which even if you complete quickly, which is unlikely, you will have great fun with it and it's 
 only a fiver!
  
  Overall tjis game revolutionaised the gaming world. No one had ever seen a game like this. Some 
 people didn't think it was really a proper game for gamers. In some cases I agree but you still 
 just cant hate a game like this, a game by Peter Molyneux, a game like Black & White. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russian8
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  this game is generally good and i cant say it was terrible at any means but it was still mediocore 
 and the hype that i had recieved before playing was just after all too much.
  
  the graphics were disappionting and i expected more.
  
  i can't say much else because it wasn't 
 that bad but the only thing i will comment on is (this is what probably saved it) the gameplay 
 and game were awsome.
  
  the handeling was good and gave you more options of control to make it more capable of extraordinary 
 events.
  
  the game story line is good and who doesn't like raising a little giant monster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Willhelm
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  I got this game a few months ago and still play it every once in a while. It has lots of great 
 features that let you be creative and there are limitless possibilities in the game. The graphics 
 are pretty decent and the day/night cycle makes the game constantly feel fresh. 
  
  GRAPHICS: 8/10 - lush environments and good character models
  
  SOUND: 10/10 - Whilst i cant 
 really remember any background music the two sides of your personality really add humour to the 
 experience.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9/10 - Your free to do what you want on the games islands and there are lots of different 
 sidequests for you to do
  
  VALUE: 10/10 - I still havent finished, but im not the sort to whizz through games.
  
  TILT: 
 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teliko_Hat
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  this game is the master of all games. the game where you triumpth good and evil, black and white. 
 you decide what happens. its your destiny. we have all always asked for a game that could bend 
 the rules a bit so that we could do what we want. this is that game. there are no rules. no limits. 
 you do what you want and nothing can get in your way. no matter wether you do good or bad things, 
 its all part of the game. it may not be greatly known for its graphics but at the end of the day 
 is that what we want? a game with perfect graphics and nothing else? no. thats why this game is 
 so great. other games lost there way because they wasted the space on the graphics or having the 
 most perculiar sounds. this did not. very straight forward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SBF9304
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that Black and White is a pretty good game (maybe in some cases better than Age 
 of Empies 2) , but there are other cases that make it poor.
  
  First of all this game won't run well on Windows 98. If you have automatic save on, it'll save 
 every 20 minutes and take a long moment to save before you can get back to your game. What's worse 
 is that with Windows XP is that it'll freeze up every 5 minutes for a long moment before allowing 
 you to continue, even though a save takes like 10 seconds (at least manually, I shut the auto save 
 off after the nightmares of loading the game) . 
  
  Yeah to explain the nightmares of loading the game, you can't continue your old saved games if 
 you have a different Windows version like I do (98 and XP) , like I could for Ages of Empires 2 
 (that I could do) . And my Windows 98 computer is so slow, and yet I almost had the game complete 
 there (I was up to the multiple mega blast pillars in Land 5) .
  
  While the game has pleasent music and awesome graphics not to mention spells, it is also constantly 
 annoying on how hard it is to win the villages not to mention that your opponent in a skrimmish 
 game somehow gets his influence ring so HUGE. The villagers are always whining about something. 
 If they have enough food, they need off spring. And guess what happens when they get offspring. 
 They not only need more food, but they need more houses. 
  
  Playing the adventure game with the 5 lands is annoying. While the first two lands are pretty simple, 
 the next three lands get very hard.
  
  Providing you have Prima's official strategy guide you can easily complete the silver scroll tasks 
 in the first two lands having fun (even though it can be somewhat hair pulling) . 
  
  But once Nemesis strikes in Land 2, you're in for a world of pain. After some patience winning 
 Leathy's villages (who'll keep sapping his belief back by putting up shields) you'll get to Land 
 3.
  
  Once in Land 3, the fun is over. Your creature is being totured. You have to win three villages 
 to get him back. Completing a silver scroll challenge (which I haven't dared to pass) of secretly 
 following this guy (if caught, you'll have to start all over again) to a secret place, he'll be 
 some help, but not as much as I think he should be, when Leathy's tries to get each village back 
 after you've won. If you fail, you're basically , and Leathy's wins the village back. Because I 
 failed once after getting a village for 700 belief, and then it was for 1500 belief. Then after 
 winning the last village, I of course went after Leathy's final village (attacking it) , until it 
 was gone. He then pleaded me to let him keep it, but guess what, HE WAS TOO LATE. So I eased off 
 when going through the second time, and luckily after 20 minutes the plea came in (a little late 
 there) . My good concious told me I did the right thing when arriving in Land 4.
  
  Land 4 is one hell of a muther nightmare, and you'll probably be saying that alot too in your first 
 hour there. In fact, that's about how much time you have to do your first two tasks (win a village 
 with 500 belief, and defeat an orge) . The best strategy was to send the creature to impress the 
 village first, then send him to fight. While waiting for him to get to the arena ring, I continued 
 to throw trees and do whatever it took to win the village. Once the village was won, you'd have 
 to complete a bell puzzle (hopefully I had Prima's guide) . After that, the fireballs aren't so 
 bad. Land 4 isn't so bad, providing you've also defeated the orges.
  
  The guide said that you should take care of the orges first, but you basically only have 1 hour 
 before the fireballs kill your temple. Although the orges steal stuff, I just placed my stockpiles 
 of food and wood where the Aztec village used to be in Land 1 (it took a long while before one 
 single orge found it) . And also there supposedly is a way to shut the fireballs off by editing 
 a file.
  
  But Land 5 is the real mean beast. Not only are trees scarce, but you need more of them to even 
 make one single measly scaffold. The belief required to win villages is just mind boggling. And 
 even after the evil Wonders that harm your creature are destroyed, the villagers build them back 
 up. 
  
  In the end, I'm not saying Black and White is a bad game, but it's a game that requires A TON OF 
 TIME. Something like 3-4 months, and that's if you have free time 24/7. I unfortunately don't have 
 that time. I didn't have time completing this game, and I'm not going to waste it buying Black 
 and White 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThieveryCo
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 10, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  Black & White is a game maybe I was expecting too much from. I mean, a game where you play the 
 role of GOD, how can you expect less than perfection in terms of gameplay, sounds and graphics, 
 and of course, fun to play. 
  
  Regrettably, I've been really disappointed from the game. The concept is good but you get tired 
 really fast. Also, the animal that you manage and train was not a good idea in my opinion. This 
 animal is fun the first couple of hours, but than, you start to expect more from the game, but 
 it just never happens. The combats between your creature and others are pathetic and useless. 
 
  
  The good side about this game is the world the game is built around. This world is an imaginary 
 planet with amazing backgrounds. The populace living on your planet is reactive to your decisions 
 and your actions. It's quite fun to see them run and scream while afraid to death from the houses 
 you just put on fire, or, to be happy and pray you for the trees and sheep you just summoned. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  I waited for that game like if it was the next revolutio in the industry. Training a pet that would 
 adopt an attitude corresponding to the way you were educating it. Wow!!! 
  
  The first couples of hours were great as you see that your animal is, in fact, learning from you. 
 But When I wanted to start all over again (having learned from my mistake) I had to go through 
 all the presentation and tutorial.... Now the patch fixed this but still. 
  
  Then, I started to realise that the RTS element of the game was more important than my pet and 
 that's where I got out. My pet, whatever education I was giving him, didn't had much of an impact 
 on my action. What I was doing had a little bit more to do and quite frankly, if I wanted to play 
 an ordinary RTS, I would have go with Warcraft III. 
  
  So all in all, this game has a great concept but poorly implemented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exocel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  now this game came up with the whole good/evil thing in fable so i was intriqued and got it for 
 about 2.99 at game (because if they sold a pre-owned damaged game with no case fo 2 hell would 
 freeze over) i was suprised at what an entertaining and engrossing game it was as im a stirctly 
 console gamer.
  gameplay wise its point and click but with a few twists like moving your mouse in certain shapes 
 casts ''miracles'' i found this ighly entertaining, but i broke my favourite mug in the process 
 (so long buffy mug we hardly knew ye...) .
  graphics are a little blocky but still good and the colourful and varied landscapes dont dissapoint 
 it really adds a more epic feeling to it, well , if you can get more epic than being a ogd i suppose.
 
  sound wise this is basic but amusing, much like in fable ,this ranges from omios ''hooooom!'' 
 when you accomplish something godly to a sea chanty sung by a garden of eden version of ''the wurzles'' 
 (look em' up) i found it highly enjoyable and entertaining.
  value wise this game is pretty short but its got immense replay value, especially if you want to 
 be a complete barstard on the replay.
  like fable theres so many variations, purely on which building goes were to which of your followers 
 are more prosperous.
  overall i liked this game and would probably buy the sequel, but its nothing special really, more 
 of a rainy day game.... like a virtual copy of mousetrap. but even for its complexitys its still 
 fun.
  
  
  ..... like mousetrap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apocscorpion
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  What would we expect from Peter Molineux? A fantastic game thats what! And thats exactly what 
 we get in Black & White. 
  Black & White is a strategic, action, RPG, virtual pet game. Yes so many genres would certainly 
 result in a bubbling mess of a video game, but fortunately thats not the case of Black & White. 
 
  
  You play the role of a god, created by the prayers of two desperate parents in a attempt to rescue 
 theyre son from his impending doom. Thus you come along, save the little boy and instantly become 
 the new deity in charge of the island. One curious thing about Black & White is that you play the 
 game almost exclusively with your mouse, in a form of a godly hand that does everything. You can 
 cast miracles, such as rain to water the corn fields or if you choose, deadly fireballs to rain 
 death to your enemys, and these are only 2 of the various miracles that you can perform.
  
  Black & White is also a game thats just simply fun to play because of its freeform and open-ended 
 nature. You can pick villagers up and put them near, for example, a forest and that villager will 
 begin gathering wood which in turn is used for building the various buildings in which inhabit 
 the local populace. Just pick up a villager and put them near a specific object and hell get the 
 idea of what you want him to do. Its also great fun to pick up villagers and toss them great distances, 
 like from the edge of the island to the other, losing sight of the villager and probably killing 
 him. You can also pick up trees and shatter rocks and put them in the village to contribute to 
 making it more pleasant. 
  
  There is also a big new curious aspect about Black & White: Your creature. The creature is your 
 physical representation on the game world. The creature was gifted with a tremendously advanced 
 A. I. The creature learns actions and behaviours in function to what you teach him or he sees you 
 perform. For example, if you constantly kill your villagers by dropping rocks on top of them your 
 creature will start mimicking your action and star killing villagers like you do. There are 3 leashes 
 that incentive your creature to learn, to act more kindly or to be more aggressive. Put on the 
 learning leash to teach your creature actions and behaviours more quickly, such as creating miracles 
 and cast them. You can tattoo your creature with symbols to give it a more personal look and make 
 it truly unique.
  
  In Black & White you choose to be a benevolent god or a malign deity, this is chosen in function 
 of your actions. The land will also change according to the reflection of your personality, and 
 your creature will also be affected by your attitudes and personality, changing behaviours and 
 physical appearance. For example, if youre a malign deity your creature will act more aggressively 
 and become more buff and scary, majority of the times it will also become more dark and gloomy. 
 If youre a benevolent god, your creature will become fluffy and sometimes acquire a whitish colour, 
 and will act to help the villagers and contribute to the community.
  
  The graphics in Black & White are simply amazing, from the sunrise to the sunset and throughout 
 the day and night its just marvellous to watch, you could just stand in front of your pc and watch 
 the day go by, the villagers scurrying by doing all sorts of tasks like building houses, breeding, 
 gathering lumber, fishing and collecting harvests.
  
  To advance in Black & White you have the Gold Story Scrolls. These scrolls are essential for you 
 to advance in the story and well trigger very important story moments and most of the times a 
 cut scene that marks the passage to the other level. Sometimes to advance you also have to convert 
 several villages to worshiping you by impressing them with anything godly. You can also convert 
 them with fear and destruction if you choose to.
  You also have the Silver Story Scrolls. These scrolls are not so important as the Gold ones but 
 are relatively fun to do and they come in the form of riddles, puzzles, or quests to help villagers. 
 They will most of the time create miracle dispensers, from which you receive miracles without having 
 to spend mana (will power) . To cast miracles you need mana, which is earned by the constant prayers 
 of the population at your temple.
  
  Black & White also features a skirmish mode, where you have to destroy the opposing gods temple 
 to win the game. Youll still control a populace and creature like in the single player game.
 
  
  The sound is also well done with some good voice acting especially from your conscience, which 
 are a little devil and a angel, who sometimes can have some quite comedic conversations. You have 
 the pretty well situated sounds of nature, who help you to really feel youre in a tropical island.
 
  
  Black & White is a game that combines many genres into a successful masterpiece, surely to be enjoyed 
 by everyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Odmog
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is not comparable to any other game. It has so much.
  
  You are a god. Not a creator, really just a holy or unholy presence capable of interfering with 
 the world in many ways. Miracles, throwing stuff, using a creature, etc.
  There is the main campaign. You have to complete many tasks, some mandatory, some you can do if 
 you want to. But what's really nice, you can complete the tasks the way you want to! You can impress, 
 heal, and build or crush, kill and destroy! There is also a nice good-evil-meter that changes you 
 and your property depending on what you do. This game is so much and offers so many choices, the 
 variety, I don't want to say much more. It's amazing.
  
  Graphically it's impressive - it runs on my 333Mhz computer even if it looks nearly as good as 
 Black and White 2! Seriously, the graphics are more than comparable to today's strategy games.
 
  
  The sounds and overall atmosphere is ecstatic. The composer is a genious, and even if the range 
 of sounds is a bit limited, you don't get tired of anything.
  
  In addition to the regular gameplay, you have the playground, skirmish and multiplayer to play 
 around with. You can spend a lot of time with your creature which is a really good virtual pet 
 or enjoy the everlasting fun with taking over villages.
  
  Even if I've owned this game since around 1999, I completed it in 2005 (Because of several strange 
 events in the meantime) . It is rather hard, and also very long. Requires some patience, but that 
 doesn't kill any value.
  Perhaps the best game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew9283745
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  This game is difficult to know whether you like it or not. You go through periods of boredom after 
 doing the same thing over and over again but when something actually changes you feel a sense of 
 excitement and you turn to liking it after-all. 
  
  Land 1 is primarily a learning land. You don't get anything from it, just learning what your villagers 
 need and it's pretty easy. When you get your creature things start to get a little better but when 
 you get to land 2 and then onto land 3, you find that you keep on doing the same thing over and 
 over again. Take over this village, then the next quest is to take over the next one. It's very 
 repetitive and you'll find yourself wanting to carry on, not because you want to, but because you'll 
 refuse to let it win and you will feel a sense of 'I will finish this because I've dedicated so 
 much time to it's crappiness'. Don't be fooled by thinking that when you move through lands that 
 something will change because it doesn't. It's all about taking over villages and that's it. Your 
 creature will fight occasionally but for most of them you can't even interact. 
  
  Land 5 was difficult and extremely annoying. Just a tip for you; to take over villages just kill 
 everyone then put in one missionary and it's done. It's the easiest way. But, it is EXACTLY the 
 same thing all the way the game. You do get a sense of achievement of course because you've spent 
 so much time doing nothing it's the only thing that keeps you going. If you want something to keep 
 you annoyed and frustrated then this is the game for you. You can make it last for as long as you 
 like or move through it pretty quickly if you can. But really, although you can get this for about 
 a fiver now I wouldn't bother. It's a hige disappointment and although I like strategy games, you 
 just don't get the sense of excitement and achievement that you hope and get from other games. 
 For a good strategy game, I don't think you can beat Syberia and Syberia II. Nothing happens in 
 this game. I hope I've helped you save a little money in writing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheese-fish
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 17, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  this game has it all fire, death, buildings, people and of course a giant animal which poo's, and 
 if it lands on a house/building it crushes it how cool. the levals are long and the controls take 
 a long time to work out but after a while you will get used to them and wreck vengence on them 
 you can even put tattoos on your creature, your creature will also fight other creatures and it 
 soon turns into 'lets ge ready to rumble'. the worst point is when ur creature goes around destroying 
 your village, fun it may be, its still enoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilplayer
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2006 2:14 am PT
Review:  this games graphics and gameplay are fantastic, a game that will draw you in and won't let go. 
 beiung a god like that and having a creature had never happend untill black and white, it was the 
 first game that allows you to cast miracles, and the first ever god game. the creatures are wicked, 
 the way you can stroke them if there good and serve you or slap them if there naughty and eat a 
 villager. the story is just great, i mean what isn't more fun then vanquishing another god of the 
 face of the universe into an endless portale and destroying there creature to get the magical things 
 inside. playing this game makes you feel good and that's the most important thing about playing 
 a game, it got a good rate from ea games and lion heqd studios and it should get a good rating 
 from you to.
  a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phicks85
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting in line for this game when it first came out. I bought it and ran home to play it 
 only to find out my PC wasn't up to the challenge. So alas it sat in my closet until I got a PC 
 that could deal with the demands of the game. Let me say it was worth the wait. This game was a 
 great idea. Who amoung us doesn't dream of being a god and ruling over a village full of people? 
 I loved being able to throw them around if they didn't do my bidding. So you can either be good 
 or you can be evil (like I was) . All this affects how you, your creature, and your temple look. 
 Now that I beat the single player it is fun to just play skirmishes and keep leveling up my creature. 
 I highly recommend this game. Now I just got to go buy the 2nd one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  Here's the lengthy story. I was endlessly browsing the GameSpot archives sometime post-Christmas, 
 and I found Black & White. The next day, I went downtown to see if I could find it, because it 
 got a "superb" and a 9.3. Ecstatic, I found it in my independent games store for 2.99. No joke. 
 So I skipped home humming Stevie Wonder's "Signed, Sealed, Delivered." I got stared at, I got laughed 
 at, and I didn't give a monkeys. Because I had the previlige of installing this game and having 
 a whirl on one of Lionhead's star creations. 
  
  Some people will threaten to kick my @$$ for giving this game a relatively sub-par score. Well, 
 they won't, seeing as GameSpot is simply a very good videogaming site that has barely any snippets 
 related to violence. These get locked by moderators. But to me, Black & White is a woefully dull 
 game. Peter Molyneux always has a massive ambition for every game, and sees them as the sun rising 
 on the horizon. But, from my experience, these always backfire; Black & White is a mass of ideas 
 that are stuck together and plonked onto a disc. And although GameSpot have said that these theoretically 
 incompatible ideas do glue together to create an immersive experience, to me this blend of genres 
 don't gel into each other, and in the end Black & White becomes an inexplicable mess of different 
 styles. 
  
  One thing I'll give Black & White - it is wholly original and definitely new explores new territory 
 for the fast-expanding industry. You play the messianic figure of God, and the game starts off 
 on a striking note, where you save a clumsy child from the grasp of a hungry shark, and his distraught 
 parents quickly warm to you and invite you into their village. There, you order them to build a 
 grand temple, and from there, you will reprise your role as ruler of the region, and generally 
 do all things a God would do. 
  
  There's no denying that Black & White has an almost staggering amount of depth. It's almost overwhelming. 
 Everything on a God's agenda is somehow packed onto one disc of ideas. Expansion of belief, village 
 micromanagement, viewing town statistics, sating their needs, helping stranded people from harm, 
 freeing kids from the lair of a demented paedophile, and exploring new regions... all these things 
 amount up into one hell of a task that is way too daunting. Some casual gamers might abandon the 
 game right at the start - others will delve into the perplexing world of Black & White. 
  
  The gameplay in Black & White is an impressive feat, and an absorbing way to pass the time, but 
 for me, there was a lacking fun factor in the game. Basically, you've got to get used to being 
 an unmistakable floating hand. From this hand, you must forge the destiny of your people. You can 
 be a good God; a loving, celestial being with an angelic soul, or an evil God; a hateful, fearsome 
 old sod that nobody likes, but will never admit it. From your all-conquering hand, you can throw 
 stuff, from rocks to innocent people, explore, grab, influence; you can almost drown in the unprecedented 
 freedom that Black & White gives you. But there isn't no enjoyment in the gameplay, or not much 
 of it; sure, it's mildly entertaining throwing a stereotypical villager into the ocean, but Black 
 & White isn't very good at immersing you in the game. It won't carry your awe and chances are, 
 you won't do that several times. 
  
  But the main quirk of Black & White is not the dull RTS/micromanagement explained above. Oddly, 
 all Gods in this game [yes, there's not just you, you have friends and enemies] own their very 
 own distinct Creature. At the start of the game you are bestowed with either a cow, a chimp, or 
 a tiger; and this is where the true abnormality of the game comes into its own. Between keeping 
 your creature out of mischief, telling the villagers to find their own food, and being trained 
 by a gigantic lion, the game can become confusing and irritatingly complex. Just like this review. 
 
  
  The creature training has decent design, but regardless of what your trainer says, chances are 
 you'll let it run riot anyways. You can stroke, slap, reward, punish, give food to, starve, let 
 loose, take it for walks, let it faint; whatever you want. You can even train it to do specific 
 jobs for the town, in which case it will become a mascot. 
  
  And what makes the game doubly perplexing is the control scheme. It's all done with the mouse; 
 every action in the game is virtually done with the mouse. Sure, it's well-designed, but the view 
 in the game can often go wonky and it takes precious seconds to right yourself. Before going haywire 
 again. Maybe it's just my inability to use the control scheme, but I find the game irritating to 
 play. When the view distorts, it infuriates. 
  
  And still, after all those paragraphs I've just wrote, I still don't know what genre is applied 
 to this multiple personality disorder of a game. It's like an awkward Nintendogs, mixed with a 
 dull Civilization, with a bit of Sim City thrown in for good measure. Or maybe it's Tamagotchi 
 mixed with Rome: Total War mixed with Age of Empires. Is it a bird? A plane? A train? A fusion-powered 
 BMW Williams F1? I still haven't figured it out. This game has so much dizzying depth it's nauseating. 
 
  
  Nevertheless, from an audiovisual viewpoint, it's not that bad. Black & White's landscapes are 
 well-drawn, with some lovely detail and far draw distances. The character models are OK, the creatures 
 are pretty good, and I've never found the back of a hand so enchanting. 
  The sound reaches similar heights. There's some stirring orchestral music in this game, along with 
 some oh-so-professional voiceovers. Your creature's continual pines and grunts can get on your 
 nerves though. Why does it have to be so infernally irritating?
  
  So, all in all, I think I've covered the facts. Black & White fails to meet its own lofty ambitions, 
 and for me, I didn't get much fun out of it. It's a frequently overwhelming tidal wave of different 
 genres, and they melt into something that didn't sate my needs for a good game. Overrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: o_sausage
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 8, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I spent about $5 on this game and it was worth it but there's 1 major problem it's incredibly boring 
 yes it really is and all you who read that you can be good or evil you have no real choice
  
  ok on the good and evil part you need to take over a city alot in this game really this is 
 the game you want to do it in a good way that sucks because the only real way to do this task is 
 to attack the city with rocks and fireballs because you are ussually to far away to do anything 
 else
  
  AI in this game is ok-terrible depending on how you look at it at one point attacking the city 
 of another god will make the god put shields around it but you can continously attack him for hours 
 and the only thing he'll attack is your creature but only if you get it on his land he does attack 
 your city some but it's always a scripted cutscene like level 3's wolf attack
  
  graphics are pretty good but graphics don't really matter unless it's hard to look at the game 
 
  
  the game is pretty easy supplie food supplie water to village oh no the village store is out of 
 wood pick up tree and supply wood so the game is boring very boring but you'll get to where you 
 can't stop but be bored like being forced to watch a crappy t. v. show but you find the boringness 
 addictive
  
  I bought this game at target with 4 other EA titles for $20 it was well worth so buy it in all 
 it's $20 for 3 good games and a not so good one glory 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 4, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  This is a game where you control some people and you get to play the role as God, something that 
 we haven't really seen in a long time. However through the game you first make to make the biggest 
 choice before you even start the game. What kind of a god are you going to want to be? Do you want 
 to be a good god who helps his people and in exchange get worshipped by the people down below? 
 Or do you want to be an evil god who just wrecks havoc on the people from below? That is your choice 
 that you have to first decide on even before the entire game begins, then after that the game itself 
 plays out quite happily as there are so many choices that a person can make within the game. Overall 
 this is a very fun game that I would recommend to anyone who is willing to sit down for a bit of 
 a simulation type of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lingermania
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 3, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  The game is awesome, the story about the battles between all the gods, good and evil and right 
 and wrong.
  This game got me into the mood and i got stuck in it until i lost my saves. I highly recommend 
 this game for everyone that likesstrangegames, this game is strange in it's way because there 
 aren't many games like this out there.
  
  The graphics was was ok, well you couldn't really ask for more, well i couldn't. The shapes of 
 the characters are like an old 3d game but your pet is greatly designed. The whole world is preatty 
 cool and i liked the graphics in the game. I give this game 7 out of 10 in it's graphics.
  
  The sound is probably the best thing, the games has those songs and lyrics that are just marvelous. 
 The best part of the game would be the sound because it's very nice acted into the game and it 
 give you the feeling that they are talking to you and no other than you. The sound i give 9.5 out 
 of 10 possible.
  
  The game play is of course the most important thing, and honestly, the game play is great ! It's 
 one of the best once, you work your own way through the life of being a god. You get reputation 
 from the people which the call believe, when you have gather enough of reputation from a village 
 you will gain they're loyalty and trust (unless there is another god that will take the village/city 
 of you, but if you keep it save you'll be ok) this is just one of hundreds of things you can do 
 in the game. Of course your pet, it's one of the main reason i bought the game. You get this pet 
 that you will raise all on your own, you will have the chose of having it good or evil. And the 
 game goes on and on and you do more quests and more quests, gain more reputation and more reputation 
 and then of course your pet grows stronger every minute. So i give the game play of this game a 
 10 out of a 10 possible. 
  
  Thank you, i hope this review was helpful to some one bye, Lingermania. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J4CK_0F_SP4D35
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 31, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  By far revolutionary. I had this game and was sitting up, late at night, playing with-in the first 
 week. By the first month I was gaining ranks, playing with clan-mates, and training my creature 
 to it's max, and after I pwn'd the game, I made my own maps and islands using NotePad and codes 
 I ganked off the internet and by modding pre-made maps. This game will go down in my personal history 
 as one of the most addicting, fun, and challenging of my childhood. I'd sit up summer nights hosting 
 multiplayer games. The replay value is priceless and the fun is neverending. Sadly no one plays 
 it online anymore and Black and White 2 doesn't support it, nor, in my opinion, is as fun as the 
 first. looking for hours apon hours of gameplay? Pick up B&W. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistikal1994
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 24, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  Its a very easy but challenging game with very few problems (for me anyway) . Lionhead have hit the 
 nail on the head. Very easy to understand. No problem with movement and the graphics are amazing.... i 
 don't see why it should get bad reviews. Even though there is now B & W 2 out now this game is definetly 
 a classic. Its actually better than some of the new games that are out nowadays. Because just about 
 every game in a store is about shooting, racing or crime. It's nice to find a game that is not all 
 about violence because you can choose the path of violence or the path of goodness with a few clicks.
 
  
  'Nuff said 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  The premise is simple: you're a god and it's your task to convert as many nonbelievers to your 
 cause as possible, thereby gaining power. You can be a good god or a bad god, an evil master of 
 destruction or a benevolent flower daddy - or any of the millions of shades in between. By managing 
 your villages and fighting other gods, you vie for ultimate control. From the outset, you know you're 
 in for a treat because the game engine is simply unbelievable. You can see the lush landscape from 
 absolutely any direction and at any height. Zoom all the way in to check out the textures on a 
 wild horse, or pull out to the stratosphere and get a lay of the land. With an innovative scaleable 
 graphics system, the important details in the terrain become evident as you get closer. The world 
 is truly seamless, bereft of even the tiniest loading time. The result is breathtaking 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sieg6529
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  The game is quite seminal, and there are few games that allow you to enjoy being a god. There were 
 two major flaws that I found with this game: 1 - the sharp spike in difficulty encountered upon 
 returning to the first island and 2 - the shortness of the 1 player mode. The best part of this 
 game is your creature. Being able to foster the growth of your own personal avatar is quite enjoyable 
 and, honestly, necessary unless you enjoy micromanaging. This game keeps you busy trying to win 
 and keep settlements, but the burden of doing so becomes tiresome. If you tend to favor strategy/sim 
 games, this is a good choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jray14
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 18, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  It's fun in short spurts every once in a while, but the rash of bugs and design flaws inundate 
 you constantly and really try your patience.
  
  First of all, if you have Windows XP, you should know that the game only starts up about 1 in every 
 10 or 15 tries. So expect to sit there for about 5 minutes just before you get it loaded. Then 
 if you've gotten to the middle of level 2 or so, you'll wait another minute as it auto-loads your 
 last auto-save. Then another minute to load the game you want to play. Peter Molyneux (the head 
 designer) admitted in an interview that the game-save feature was kinda rushed in at the last minute, 
 and boy is he right!
  
  Then once you actually get in the game you'll be faced with other annoyances. For example, there's 
 a little side-quest where you're supposed to find a wolf and a piece of your creature's poop and 
 put it in a ring of mushrooms and cast a shield over it all. Brownie points here for imagination! 
 But unfortunately it's irreversibly bugged. About half of the wolves are actually labelled internally 
 as some other animal, and half of the pieces of poop lose their "object" status when dropped and 
 become a permanent part of the landscape. So if you get unlucky and get a defective wolf or poo 
 and cast the shield over it, you fail the quest and are unable to try again. Unless, that is, you 
 spent a minute saving the game just beforehand and are willing to spend another minute loading 
 it back and trying the whole thing again... several times.
  
  The simple action of dropping a villager or item somewhere is dangerous. For some reason, if you 
 accidentally drop a villager on a house or another villager or a rock or whatever (which will happen 
 all the time if you're not zooming way in to micro-manage) , it will often go flying off the screen 
 and die!!! Now that is just ridiculous.
  
  The designers just plain forgot to implement a bunch of stuff. The best food for your creature 
 to eat is fish. But fish is not labelled correctly in the game code as "food," so that when you 
 finally get him to eat it and then reward him for it, your reward is only "From now on your creature 
 will get hungrier when it is tired." No! That's not what I wanted to reward it for! Tough luck, 
 because only cows and sheep and horses give you "From now on your creature will eat that type of 
 food more often."
  
  The open-ended nature of the game is cool, but it has maddening side effects too. If you manage 
 to be sneaky and take over a faraway village before it's "natural," then it will break one of the 
 other side quests.
  
  Well, it was fun for a while here and there, but I really wish it was given a lot more time for 
 testing. As it is, it's just more trouble than it's worth.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drowelf1993
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  Well, where to start? Black and White has to be one of the best games around. being a God for one 
 thing, owning your own creature and everyone's life in your hands. It's great! It can be never-ending 
 and there is so many ways to play! For one there is three different creatures so that already makes 
 three different ways to go! Plus you can be good or evil, evil being terrorizing your people of 
 course lol. I could play it for hours on end, there is so many things to do, so many possibilities! 
 I'm not saying its perfect but it is indeed very close! The only thing I find difficult is the 
 controls but of course, you get better over time and practice. ^-^ Sometimes it is very funny, 
 hilarious even, getting your creature to eat people for example but thats evil lol. But I find 
 it also very annoying when there is nothing to do or it is very hard to do. If you haven't got 
 this game, I totally recommend it!! And one thing for newbies, keep at it! ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryle_Boy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Where should I begin? The innovativeness of the player immersed as a god? Your creature? The miracles? 
 It is all these things that back Black and White up to be one of the most under-rated games in 
 existence. The open-endedness is so confronting, its mind-blowing. You could spend hours nay days 
 customizing your creature to just how you want him. Teach him mircales, telling him to poo on villagers, 
 whatever. Its amazing how sophisticated some of the AI really is. What I love about it, is the 
 fact is what you can do as you please. The ability to sacrifice human beings, being able to make 
 a metropolis, being able to control a CPU life in an instant. What I love about Black and White 
 - The Creature. You start off with a small, weak one, and it eventually builds into a huge, bohemoth 
 of a being, doing whatever you teach it to do. Black and White shows you who you really are, and 
 it is really reflected though your creature. A small, electronic version of yourself. Good? Healing 
 the sick, feeding the starving, building homes for homeless? Or setting them alight, crushing them 
 with your foot, throwing them into the sea or snacking on them? The beauty of this is - you make 
 it do these things. Black and White - You will be immersed, buy this game, you will not be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TerrorAK
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 8, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok this is my first review, so bare with me. First off, I must say, when I thought about getting 
 this game several years ago, I was quite leery about it. I was afraid that it might not run on 
 my computer, and it seemed rather overwhelming to play just by reading reviews and looking at the 
 back of the box. So I abandoned the thought of getting it until now. Big mistake. I just got it 
 for x-mas and its my favorite game yet! 
  
  The game starts off with a three person family walking down a pathway to the beach, suddenly the 
 man and his wife start making out. SO their boy decides to run off and play in the water. The ignorant 
 parents finally notice their son is gone and they yell at him to stay away from the water. Being 
 only five years old he ignores them and decides to do it anyway. Sharks appear and start heading 
 in for lunch as the parents pray for someone to save him. Thats when you come in, merely a bodiless 
 hand, you pluck the boy from the water and return him safely to the parents. They say something 
 about a prophecy and ask you to come to the village to worship you. And thus the story begins. 
 You follow a bunch of tutorials and finally get a giant creature to help aid you in your quest 
 to rule the world.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good, they are certainly not as good as those of games today, but 
 they still give a very good sense realism and nature. 
  
  Game play: At first things start out quite hectic. Your learning the camera controls which are 
 hard to learn at first, youre learning the basics of training your creature and how to capture 
 other villagers, so its kinda hard at first, but once you get the controls down and start to get 
 your creature well trained it gets really fun. But it can be quite hard to train your creature. 
 
  
  Story: The story is exceptionally good, there are times when it gets annoying to just wait for 
 your influence to grow to get to the next village, but otherwise its very good. 
  
  Controls: The whole rotating and zooming can be SOOOO annoying sometimes. But the miracle gestures 
 does bring it up a notch, and once you get the hang of the controls they starts to make sense. 
 
  
  Creature: I love this part! You get to pick a creature to help you in your quests. He has his own 
 personality and you can form it to your will, you can also determine his habits, i. e. eating sleeping 
 village strategies. If you wanted him to be evil you could teach him to use things like fireballs 
 and lighting on houses to impress other villages. If you wanted him to be good you could teach 
 him to supply the village store with wood. You can also decide whether or not hell be a workhorse 
 to tend to your villages or a merciless combatant to help destroy other gods. The AI to him is 
 amazing too, its so complex I cant even explain it. If I could give this a rating over ten it 
 would be about a 14. 
  
  Sound: Very good, you can even download a patch to play your music off the computer while you play. 
 And your creature will dance in time to it! 
  
  This is a great game, and I strongly suggest you buy it if you havent already. Actually get black 
 and white 2, its much better. I just couldnt get it because I have a slow graphics card. So if 
 you love God games get this one! Its the best one yet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: w4rgasm
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 5, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I really do not how to describe the ingenuity that went into making this game. The makers truly 
 put in their efforts to make this game stand out above the rest. Black & White mixes RTS and RPG 
 elements in to a mysterious yet compelling game; with mythical creatures to raise and make into 
 powerful brutes that cast any sorts of magic. You start that game as the god of a tribe on an isolated 
 island. The island is just meant to be a tool to help you learn the basics. 
  
  The innovative gameplay makes for a highly replayable game, and the creatures that you can choose 
 from allow the game to prosper and keep it lively and interesting. Once you leave your seat to 
 go get a bite to eat, you leave yourself wondering, "I wonder what my pet is doing now? I think 
 i should check up on him." And sure enough, you check on him.
  
  Black & White also allows the player to choose any path through the game, without any guidelines. 
 You could neglect your pet to make him a disobediant, rampaging beast. Or you could lather him 
 with gifts to make him a caring and giving creature. You may also accomplish the tasks set before 
 you in any number of ways. You could send your pet to try and persuade the townspeople to join 
 your side, you could destroy all the towns that stand in your way, or you could just raise your 
 empire and ignore the towns.
  
  A truly wonderful game that sets the standards for any games that try and follow in its footsteps. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_boy_del
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  ok when I first got black and white i loved it i thought it was spectacular
  one of the best games i ever played UNTIL........
  i ended up continuosly doing the same thing 
 non stop BOARING
  then you get on to breeding i spend all my time trying to bread an army (i even once used every 
 villager i had just to breed) only to find that the idiots were walking around occasualy kissing 
 BUT NOT MAKING BABYS so i use all my units to build an army, they get killed by an enemy that easily 
 makes countless enemys then im stuck with nothing, so most of the game you are being forced to 
 kill the armys with ur pet (which is fun to start with but gets really old) or putting my armys 
 on the gates or walls and waiting for the stupid AI to come up to the base and wait while there 
 all being shot until there dead!!!!
  I haven't even finished the game i got so board of it i just stoped playing
  DONT BUY THIS GAME
 
  dont get sucked in by the way the back of the box looks or gamespots review as i did!!!!
  I personally am very angry at gamespot at giving such a high rating to such a crap game!!
  the 
 people that enjoy this game are mindless idiots who like to see the same thing over and over again 
 cause thats what happens!!!
  i used to have alot of faith in gamespots reviews (so much so i don't use any other review sites)
 
  now i have to seroisly consider wether i will buy
  age of empires 3
  civilization 4
  sims 2 and call of duty 2 
  (all of which i was going to buy because of gamespots high ratings 
 and review for them)
  Though i will not use any other reviewer sites because I feel it is best to stay loyal to a brand 
 that has helped me and i hope such a bad review will never be repeated by gamespot again
  Bottom line "do not buy this game"! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaaraZanta
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Black and white is a very appropriate name for this game. Some parts are really good then they 
 become repetitive, boring and you then realize that you just wasted your time. I usually dont 
 rate games low, so when I do it says something about the game. I am almost mad and gamespot, for 
 once, for giving a game that didnt deserve it such a high score. If you want to get a couple 
 hours of fun out of a game then go ahead and buy this, but I would advise you save your money and 
 go buy a better game.
  The gameplay for this game is fun for like 4 hours, then you get to the 3rd level, oh and just 
 so you know there are only 5 levels in the whole entire game, the game breaks down. They take away 
 your pet, who may I say is pretty stupid and just copies what you are doing, albeit in a very inconsistent 
 manner and half the time just ends up doing more harm than good. Once your pet is taken away and 
 you start with such a small village it is pitiful you then come to realize how much time of your 
 life you just wasted. The villagers in this game are mindless, they cant even make babies 
 without you telling them to and when you do they always over breed. Also it is almost impossible 
 to be a good god in this game, my people would always keep dying and they were to stupid to even 
 farm right. The list of annoyances goes on, this is a lame attempt at being an RTS and it ends 
 up falling flat on its face.
  The graphics, for the time, were good, though the people in the game did look slightly odd. Also, 
 I dont know if it was my computer or the game, when you zoom into things, like moutians, 
 they start to mold and change shape as you get closer, a very ugly effect that I never got used 
 to. Other than that most of the spells worked fine and looked pretty good, though nothing was spectacular 
 it was solid nonetheless.
  The sound in this game is okay, though the first time one of your villagers die and you hear the 
 deeeaaatthhh voice, it will take you a while to figure out what it is trying to tell you or whether 
 it is another god speaking. The sounds for the people are really annoying and I would rather have 
 text than hear them talk, wait till you hear or dont hear the fake Irish accents, pain. 
 Other than that the sound is solid, with the different spells having nice sounds to them, from 
 the rain to the fireball.
  Overall this game will not give you any lasting value, unless you find this sort of cheap imitation 
 of the RTS formula any good then you might have some fun. Lionhead is a company that promises and 
 doesnt deliver and I hope in their next outings that they learn to make a great game then 
 praise it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20648505842410216584325484843111-sonnycX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:28 pm PT
Review:  You play as a god, and your object is to gain the worship of villages throughout the world. You 
 have complete control over almost everything in the world. As you gain more followers, your ring 
 of influence grows over the land, eventually reaching other outlying villages, which you'll have 
 to convert to your faith. 
  
  You inspire belief in villagers by doing anything godlike. You can do this in several ways for 
 example: drooping food or wood in the village store or you can hurl fireballs over the village 
 or throwing boulders and even villagers to inspire fear or aw thus gathering more belief.
  But there's much more to Black & White than belief. You start with a village and it's you're job 
 to expand that village. You have to build houses so that the villagers can have a place to live, 
 you can create disciples (there are 7 types of disciples: worshipers, farmers, foresters, fisherman's, 
 craftsmen, builders and breeders) . The main goal of the game is the defeat of other gods like Nemesis.
 
  
  Everything about the game is well done. Black & White looks extremely impressive. You can zoom 
 in to see your individual villagers' faces or zoom all the way out until you can see you're entire 
 island. 
  The sound in Black & White is remarkable, and much like the graphics, it too features a dramatic 
 scale of effects. You can hear villagers singing and applauding if you get right up close to them, 
 or, high in the sky, you'll hear little save the wind. 
  
  I've saved the best thing about Black & White for last............. The Creature.
  I think that 
 everyone agrees that the creature is the best thing in the game (you're own personal avatar witch 
 you can teach to do you're biding) ................ anyways in conclusion I just want to say one 
 thing: Black & White looks, sounds and plays great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobsistrunk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 5:28 pm PT
Review:  When I finally figured out how to play I played for hours and hours. Starting over the game each 
 time through and chosing a different path, different monsters. Each way is fun and different. Theres 
 the same good/evil impact as in Fable and the creature ai is amazing at times. The whole religion 
 idea also adds a fun and unexpected twist. Sometimes I get frusturated trying to get my creature 
 to convert more people in citys out of my control, but I cna play and have fun all day to inner 
 cities, casting miracles, adding resources etc. think this game would be awesome even without the 
 gods as a simple city builder and manager with you assigning disciples and all, the miracle and 
 god powers option makes this game even more a thriller. The only thing I could imagine being improved 
 is the creaure fighting could be a little smoother and easier. But B&W 2 is coming soon and it 
 sounds like it can just blow this one out of the water. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2005 1:45 pm PT
Review:  And on the eighth day, they created this.
  While philosophers and poets have spent ages trying to uncover the meaning of life, I've always 
 found it infinitely more interesting to question the moral choices we make while we're here. Who 
 cares if we're the apex of evolution or merely unripened worm food? To be or not to be good - that's 
 the real question.
  
  For the past few years, design guru Peter Molyneux and the folks over at Lionhead Studios have 
 decided to turn this ethical quandary into a game. But with release dates constantly being pushed 
 back, no one was sure what to expect when it finally shipped. Would it live up to the hype, or 
 would it fall on its face?
  
  It lives, people. It lives big time.
  
  Black & White has been on our hit list for a solid two years, and now we know why we were so excited 
 in the first place. Blending genres into a truly unique, addicting experience, this is a revolutionary 
 game that deserves every ounce of the attention it has been getting.
  
  At its core, Black & White is a strategy god sim with ties to the past Molyneux hit Populous. But 
 from the interface to the graphics to the multi-tiered complexity of the gameplay, it's quite unlike 
 any other strategy title you've played before.
  
  The premise is simple: you're a god and it's your task to convert as many nonbelievers to your 
 cause as possible, thereby gaining power. You can be a good god or a bad god, an evil master of 
 destruction or a benevolent flower daddy - or any of the millions of shades in between. By managing 
 your villages and fighting other gods, you vie for ultimate control.
  
  From the outset, you know you're in for a treat because the game engine is simply unbelievable. 
 You can see the lush landscape from absolutely any direction and at any height. Zoom all the way 
 in to check out the textures on a wild horse, or pull out to the stratosphere and get a lay of 
 the land. With an innovative scaleable graphics system, the important details in the terrain become 
 evident as you get closer. The world is truly seamless, bereft of even the tiniest loading time. 
 The result is breathtaking.
  
  With this kind of freedom, however, comes some wily control. Though the game gives players several 
 ways to navigate the land (mouse commands, keyboard commands, hotkeys, bookmarks, etc.) , the learning 
 curve is steep. Even accomplished gamers will fight with the camera for a bit before it becomes 
 comfortable. But considering the revolutionary freedom of the game engine, this isn't really a 
 flaw so much as a fact. When you ask for a new way to swim, you don't complain about the flippers.
 
  
  The intricacy in the details is mind-boggling. You can actually zoom in to watch two 'breeder' 
 villagers smooching. Ah, god as voyeur. This extends to the interaction with the environment. You 
 can pick up any random tree or rock and fling it across the horizon, gaining belief points. Villager 
 pissing you off? Pick him up and toss him into the ocean to teach your followers a lesson. You 
 don't just cast a fireball - you hurl it. The kinetic joy of actually moving the mouse to throw 
 things around heightens the immersion tenfold. The game even supports Immersion's new Ifeel mouse 
 technology, so (if equipped) you can literally feel the fireball smoldering in your hand.
  
  The leads to just one of the revolutionary aspects of Black & White - the gesturing system. 
 To cast miracles, you move the mouse in preset geometric shapes, illuminating the land and powering 
 up spells. It's simple and brilliant and beats the hell out of clicking on icons.
  
  In fact, you'll be hard pressed to find an icon anywhere, as the whole game is built without the 
 use of a HUD or little windows, resulting in one of the most immersive games I've ever played. 
 Hours can pass and you'll hardly notice. This won't just piss off your girlfriend, it will totally 
 demolish your relationship - which, I suppose, is the highest form of flattery.
  
  The single player campaign takes you through an enormous, linear story, complete with optional 
 side quests. It is here where you first learn about the thing that sets Black & White apart from 
 all previous strategy games - the Creature.
  
  You choose one of three initial Creatures to nourish, teach and instruct from infancy up into lumbering, 
 awe-inspiring Godzilla-ness. The Creature acts as a physical manifestation of your presence. By 
 petting it gently or backhanding it Ike Turner style, you can teach it to do just about anything.
 
  
  The AI here is nothing short of groundbreaking. Unlike a Tamagotchi, it will act independently 
 to feed itself, relieve itself, and do, well, just about anything. Help it develop a taste for 
 enemy villagers and it might run into their village for a midnight snack. Teach it to cast spells 
 and it'll act like a gigantic Copperfield. Heck, you can even instruct it to poop in the ocean. 
 The range of behaviors and the seeming randomness of it all means your Creature might do anything 
 at any moment. In short, it's a piece of code that truly acts like a living thing. Astonishing.
 
  
  For example, I taught my pet tiger to cast a water miracle. He became so enamored with it that 
 now he's a virtual gardener, almost obsessively watering villagers' crops and forests, gaining 
 me belief points while giving them more food. He's also the world's best fireman. All he needs 
 is the hat.
  
  When two creatures collide, they can fight. And over time, your Creature will grow... and grow... and 
 grow, eventually reaching epic proportions. The sight of a gigantic cow and an enormous monkey 
 duking it out atop a mountain is nothing short of fine art. It's like your own private Monster 
 Island.
  
  In what is perhaps the game's only major flaw, Black & White is at times excessively heavy on the 
 micromanagement. Your villagers aren't particularly self-sufficient, often unable to even build 
 houses without divine intervention. The problem here is that the game isn't really designed to 
 make this easy.
  
  The two main resources you'll have to deal with are food and wood. Supplying your villagers with 
 enough of each is a definite necessity and an occasional pain in the ass. Despite the fact that 
 you're a god, you cannot click and highlight a group of villagers - you have to pick them up one 
 at a time and give them specific tasks. You can't really set up supply lines, which means an inordinate 
 amount of time must be spent dealing with irritating day to day details, like finding wood to create 
 scaffolding just to build one lousy house.
  
  This can become frustrating, I highly recommend training your Creature to become something of a 
 little Jesus, roaming the land taking care of the details while you focus on the bigger picture, 
 like kicking the crap out of other gods.
  
  As if the single player experience wasn't deep enough, you can play the game multiplayer. Go ahead 
 and prove to the world that your trained monkey is the baddest mamma jamma around.
  
  And all of this is just the tip of the iceberg. The intricacies of the gameplay could take hours 
 to explain. Black & White has captivated the entire GR staff with its amazingly creative and unique 
 gameplay, graphics and humor. It's the sort of game that comes around once every few years and 
 totally changes the gaming landscape. Take heed, heathens - there's a new god in town.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvgeoster
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 9, 2005 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Black and White is a game where you get to be a GOD!! Now you tell me tell me that that is cool. 
 They even spent three years building it. Anyway After you get past the first part the try light 
 if the game shines through and you can then see just how good the game is. Your creature is a cool 
 additional. But he likes taking himself for a walk.
  
  Good game play cool graphics even when you zoom in, the sound gets annoying after a long go so 
 i play my music over the top, and because of Black and White 2 being brought out we can now see 
 prices for this falling. So defiantly a must by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingWulf440
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2005 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who gives this game even 0.1 below an 8 rating is insane. This game is as addictive as they 
 come, and I haven't enjoyed a game this much since Starcraft.
  
  The best part, by far, is the creature training aspect of the game. It goes without saying that 
 raising a demi-god is the most interesting game construct I have ever heard of, and it is underscored 
 by the raising of villages that are like small children slowly growing and prospering. 
  
  I quickly went into a rage when my stuff was being abused by rival gods, and the power of a lightning 
 bolt brings swift justice to all. The miracles are awesome, but the constant need to feed the worshipers 
 about 5 times as much as usual is a major downer.
  
  As far as creatures go, I am prone to go with a smart one, since I weight train them anyway. Therefore, 
 I beat the game with the original Ape that I chose from the beginning.
  
  Few flaws, impressive graphics, fun puzzles and activities..... an easy 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bertdezie
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:51 am PT
Review:  Black and White has made computer gaming fun again, its wide variety of things to do and different 
 ways of doing them are just splendid. The thing that keeps me busy is teaching my creature all 
 the different kinds of spells. What I do is once I get full control over my creature I go in and 
 play quit a few skirmish games so that I can teach him all of the different spells. When I get 
 back to the actual game my creature can then perform the heal, water, food, lighting, fireball, 
 flock of birds and any other spell that you can get in the skirmish games. By this time my creature 
 has learned so much besides spells that I can leave him in that first village and he will take 
 care of it 100%. That gives me enough free time to just relax and go around and get ready for what 
 happens at the end of the first island, and trust me I get ready. So for those of you who like 
 to be in control of all of the little things in a game and just love to screw around and have fun 
 then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vamptech
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:39 am PT
Review:  And i loved it, let me tell ya. The graphics were excellent, even though fps were a little unstable 
 until a few patches were released. Gameplay in general was innovative and refreshing. Using only 
 the mouse in many games was not only simple but preferred after a few hours. (This mechanic might 
 be slighty exagerated given the birth of my first child and my tendency to hold her with me at 
 the computer) Concepts were, in my mind, unreal. Even the tutorial level i spent a few extra hours 
 just exploring the beautiful game world. The only shortcoming that comes to mind is the poor creature 
 development. There was much left to be desired with the interation and progession of your faithful 
 avatar. Given the ccomplex nature of the game it was put together relatively well and executed 
 perfectly in respect to its entertainment value and replayability. i would recommend it to any (albiet 
 patient) person interested in the GOD game concept. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sclearov
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Man.. what do you know about B&W :s
  It's one of the best games i've ever played, besides it was released four years ago.
  saoi ghjdsaog 
 hsaga sgg regr egar gdsfds sadsaDB osgfj dsfaf dgpreg dsfhreaim agfeoeargjm afgoreaghjag reagreg 
 rghjoreaghji grjoreg oregjergjewnc edgetdsc egxtewd xctrelglsa egctsaewq dtebdxgte xgtwtdsa doreofdds 
 eifjkdds dosfdwepfs sdfjwefds owijdsfjds pweoers, c weifdosod ewiwerjwer sdfkjsdnrew odsfjndsaf 
 ofewhewfn woef jiewfj b dsyvc ctewf ewfewf fg grereg gr egrreg erg wretrewt re retre tretewrt treewr 
 ttrew tre trew ret erwtret retre trewttrew rewtretre trewtrewtbdvb fd gfdsds gfds gfd treretgfddfg 
 gfdret retret gfdg retfdg regfd gRenowned curator Jacques Saunire staggered through the vaulted 
 archway of the museum's Grand Gallery. He lunged for the nearest painting he could see, a Caravaggio. 
 Grabbing the gilded frame, the seventy-six-year-old man heaved the masterpiece toward himself until 
 it tore from the wall and Saunire collapsed backward in a heap beneath the canvas. As he had anticipated, 
 a thundering iron gate fell nearby, barricading the entrance to the suite. The parquet floor shook. 
 Far off, an alarm began to ring. The curator lay a moment, gasping for breath, taking stock. I am 
 still alive. He crawled out from under the canvas and scanned the cavernous space for someplace 
 to hide. A voice spoke, chillingly close. "Do not move."On his hands and knees, the curator froze, 
 turning his head slowly. Only fifteen feet away, outside the sealed gate, the mountainous silhouette 
 of his attacker stared through the iron bars. He was broad and tall, with ghost-pale skin and thinning 
 white hair. His
  irises were pink with dark red pupils. The albino drew a pistol from his coat and aimed the barrel 
 through the bars, directly at the curator. "You should not have run." His accent was not easy to 
 place. "Now tell me where it is.""I told you already," the curator stammered, kneeling defenseless 
 on the floor of the gallery. "I have no idea what you are talking about!""You are lying." The man 
 stared at him, perfectly immobile except for the glint in his ghostly eyes. "You and your brethren 
 possess something that is not yours."The curator felt a surge of adrenaline. How could he possibly 
 know this?"Tonight the rightful guardians will be restored. Tell me where it is hidden, and you 
 will live." The man leveled his gun at the curator's head. "Is it a secret you will die for?"Saunire 
 could not breathe. The man tilted his head, peering down the barrel of his gun. Saunire held up 
 his hands in defense. "Wait," he said slowly. "I will tell you what you need to know." The curator 
 spoke his next words carefully. The lie he told was one he had rehearsed many times... each time 
 praying he would never have to use it. When the curator had finished speaking, his assailant smiled 
 smugly. "Yes. This is exactly what the others told me."Saunire recoiled. The others?"I found them, 
 too," the huge man taunted. "All three of them. They confirmed what you have just said."It cannot 
 be! The curator's true identity, along with the identities of his three snchaux, was almost as 
 sacred as the ancient secret they protected. Saunire now realized his snchaux, following strict 
 procedure, had told the same lie before their own deaths. It was part of the protocol. The attacker 
 aimed his gun again. "When you are gone, I will be the only 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Entih
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 20, 2005 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, Black and White is innovative and just plain fun to work with. I find this game enjoyable 
 on many terms, and find it disapointing that some find it un-enjoyable because they are impatient 
 or too stupid to know how to play it properly.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is probably one of the most unique games I have played, and carries its own sense of personality 
 into the genre of Real Time Strategy. It is the first game I have ever played to be a god simulator, 
 and definitely the first where you do things with a disembodied hand that can pick up villagers. 
 Most of the fun of this game is in taking over villages. After playing on either good and evil 
 sides of thinking, I actually, and surprisingly, find them both enjoyable.
  
  Playing as a good god, so to speak, means that you will spend most of the time tending to villager's 
 needs while occasionally casting a lightning miracle to fend off an enemy creature. This also means 
 that you will more readily need to build up your own villages so you can take over the other villages 
 more easily, beings your conscience wouldn't like you to be casting fireballs upon those poor souls. 
 I found myself mostly casting wood and food miracles, along with the increased heal, to maintain 
 my villagers in the early earlier lands. In the later lands, however, is when it started getting 
 challenging and more readily fun.
  
  Playing as a bad god is probably the quickest and easiest way to progress in this game. You will 
 spend most of your time casting miracles to take down everything in your way, not caring in the 
 slightest for the victim. Fireballs to the enemy villages and tossing your own at them as well 
 is a fine way to gain believers, if I do say so myself. I also found it pretty fun to light a rock 
 on fire and toss it over to a hated village, then laugh as the villagers burn themselves trying 
 to put it out, especially since it takes a good 2 or 3 water miracles to put it out. Being evil 
 is the most fun in the last land and skirmish mode, since they have the best destructive miracle, 
 Mega-Blast. Taking out a village is easy with this miracle's increased form, which sends spread 
 fire explosions all around, mercilessly killing a hundred villagers if used correctly.
  
  Another fun, but often overlooked feature is the creature. Most players tend to leave the creature 
 be for odd reasons, such as "If I wanted to raise a pet, I would buy a cat". They should realize 
 that this isn't a pet, and you can leave it chained to the temple if you do so desire, but is a 
 key element to the gameplay, especially in later lands where the creature will be doing most of 
 your village converting. The creature is, in truth, very versatile. You can teach it miracles, 
 defensive or aggressive, and mold its alignment to good or evil. Its alignment can even be evil 
 when you are good, it doesn't truely matter. The creature is the key to gaining far off villages 
 in most cases, if you are unable to extend your influence far enough. Simply dropping it into a 
 village and encouraging it to impress them is enough to get it to entertain the villagers, and 
 gain large ammounts of belief in doing so.
  
  The rest:
  
  The graphics section of the game is quite good, but only if compared to graphics of the time. It 
 is upsetting to see people comparing the graphics to modern games. The sound, however, is not quite 
 as good. Although most miracles sound quite good, such as fireball, lightning, and mega-blast, 
 the rest seem to be rushed.
  
  It is truely sad to see most gamers too apathetic to see this game for what it is. Not a game where 
 you spend most of the time throwing rocks, as throwing rocks is pure stupidity, but a strategic 
 game of godly proportions, consisting of village constructing, creature teaching, and fireball 
 casting, you will find many enjoyable hours of fun playing this game as it was meant to be played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdurie
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2005 8:59 am PT
Review:  Wow Wow and once again WOW! This game is a miracle to all people who need a good strategy game. 
 It one of these games that you play for ages and ages until you are finally bored with it then 
 after about 2 weeks you start playing again for a couple of months.
  
  Black and white seems almost like whole new and different genre in itself. You play as a God which 
 can either be bad or good. This is a very clever thing for all those people who hate being a hero 
 all the time. You are a hand which can pick up almost everything and rule over village until another 
 God threatens your land. You leave and appear on another island with about ten villages which you 
 must conquer. Then you visit another place and so on until the end. It is a very fasinating game 
 which deserves an applaude. What is also very good about this is the way the tutorial works, you 
 have a good conscience and a bad one and each one gives you different advice and if you go for 
 the good advice you will be a good god and vice versa. 
  
  Now one of the best things in this entire game is the creature you get to pick near the beginning. 
 You get to choose a cow, ape or tiger which each have differnt personalities. They are AI and are 
 not controlled by you which sounds bad but actually it is very entertaining. You first start off 
 with a small creature who is neither good or bad. But as time goes on it gorws and you decide whether 
 you want it to be good or evil. Very clever! 
  
  Graphics are also another thing that amazed me, back then the graphics were never mindblowing but 
 it still competes well against even some of the games today. The world is fully roamable and fully 
 interactive unless it is out of your boundaries. The landscape is amazing and made me sweat a little 
 because the every bit of the graphics was blazing hot.
  
  Gameplay is also very nice and simple. It has two or three different ways to do almost anything 
 whether it's on a keyboard or mouse.
  
  Sound actually made me laugh a little because some of the things the villagers say whether you 
 good or bad to them shock you a little. There isn't a lot of music in it but even with none it 
 sounds brilliant.
  
  Value wise is very, very and once again very good. Even if you complete it in less then a day which 
 is highly unlikely there is loads of side missions which are not to long but not to short either. 
 These can keep you going for a while as well. There is also a skirmish mode which allows you to 
 build a village and just care for it or destroy it.
  
  So, overall this game is definitly worth your money and even if you don't like real-time strategy 
 games you will definitly love this one. Great graphics, great story, great sound, great gameplay 
 and a nice long life. WHAT MORE COULD YOU ASK FOR!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zim909
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 15, 2005 3:44 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for the first time not long ago, and the next words from my mouth were "hominahominahomina... etc" 
 This game has what I call an unorthodox appearance. The character you play is is none less than 
 a god. Supposedly you were born when somebody prayed to the Heavens to save their child, in a small 
 FMV, you rescue the child and then it goes on to explain your concience.
  
  Your concience is an interesting aspect of the game. These are the people who literally depict 
 the appearance of the only visible part of your body (your hand) . Since I normally follow the side 
 of good (yes, even in Soul Calibur) , I followed the old guy sitting on a cloud, rather than the 
 barely clothed evil concience. This dictates whether you're a god that helps people, or whether 
 you're a violent god that kills people.
  
  The controls of this game are rather unorthodox. Basically you grab the ground or other aspects 
 of the interface and push, pull, or pivot the mouse in order to move around and get a better view 
 of the scene, and of course, you can use the mouse wheel to zoom out or in.
  
  The story mode of the game is a little hard to follow at times, seeing as you have X villages to 
 watch over, and these are VERY hard to maintain. I worried way too much about maintaining my village 
 than beating the level, and consequentially, it took for ever to beat the game. But the story goes 
 somewhat like this: There's these things called The Secrets of the Creed, or rather, peices of 
 this secret. You must collect them, all the while striking down two other gods and watching an 
 allied god get annihilated. However, you are constantly plagued by Lethys and Nemesis, the enemy 
 gods
  
  This game got really hard and I gave up on it for a while, but I came back and beat it. I'd suggest 
 it if you're looking for something new and really challenging. An all 'round excellent game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robin286
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2005 10:09 am PT
Review:  THis is why...
  A game that makes u your own god but lacks any form of independance is surely wrong. It is a very 
 difficult game to complete and a very long one. You have no effective omn line help and it can 
 get just slightly irritating.
  
  on a positive note, there is a lot for lion head to work on from here BW2 and the formulae shows 
 individulaity and flair. Not bad, wortha buy if ur boered and fancy some old school gaming. If 
 u like then why not have a look at Bw2, though i haven't played the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thethirdmike
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 4, 2005 7:55 am PT
Review:  Black and White is a really good game that has many interesting aspects of gameplay that had never 
 been seen before it had been made. Sure, you might think the game gets old, but I bet that is becuase 
 you are stuck on level 2 and suck so much that you are getting frusterated about how crappy you 
 play. This game is over 4 years old, so its graphics are a little under par (but for then they were 
 GREAT) , but it still is an excellent game that should be bought by anyone (as its like 10 bucks 
 now) who wants to see what a real game it.
  
  Of course its replay value only appeals to orignal imageinative thinkers, and this game only appeals 
 to people that know what a true game is about becuase of its large learning curve, very little 
 help, and requirement of skill to play, which several games seem to be lacking. Overall, this is 
 not a game where you can use 1 strategy to win, and you can win in 10 to 20 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aradraugfea
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 16, 2005 9:43 am PT
Review:  The very concept of Black and White, a game where you literally play god, is spectacular, and this 
 game rightly has the following it does. There are plenty of positive review out there, so I'll 
 try to point out the failings/shortcomings. First off, even though the game, like Lionhead's later 
 titles, has a intricate alignment system, it has no impact on the game. Where personally I tend 
 to lean towards the sign of good, it is just as easy to be completely and totally evil. As long 
 as you can complete the objectives and don't completely wipe out your followers, you can be as 
 good or evil as you like. The other problem with their alignment system is their choice of how 
 they display alignment. While your godly alignment is displayed by changes to your temple and hand, 
 all of which are rather asthetically pleasing, the creature alignment is displayed by a more pronounced 
 method. The problem with this is, good creatures have a tendency to look rather lame, the lion 
 skin being the only one I've found that I'd be willing to actually go online with an angelic creature. 
 Even the most heavily muscled, 1000 foot tall monster fails to be intimidating when its purple 
 and sparkles. My largest complaint has to be the tutorial, which, while useful to a new player, 
 tells you only the HARDEST methods of control. While I understand that they wished to make it possible 
 to play the game COMPLETELY from the mouse, the arrow keys work far better than the method of dragging 
 the landscape which they teach you in the tutorial. Also, some of the gestures for casting miracles 
 are almost impossible to pull off, notably, the teleport miracle, in which you have to draw a crude 
 house. Doing this in a single, smooth motion is perhaps the hardest part of the game. Luckily, 
 it is a miracle that doesn't need to be used often. All and all, its a good game, though overly 
 ambitious. You can tell they wished to make a game that would put all other games to shame, they 
 ended up with what is simply a good game. Of course, then there are the technical errors we've 
 heard so much about. First off, you need a player made patch in order for it to run under XP, a 
 short coming which Lionhead itself has never addressed. Secondly, there is the often mentioned 
 save corrupt error, which requires either a player made utility or, the best lionhead has offered, 
 a work-around. Hopefully, all these errors were fixed in the newly released sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andremafia
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 3, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I think everyone had great expectations about this game, what I say is Believe the Hype, this is 
 one of the best games ever designed!
  
  In this game you play the role of a God, you have your Godly hand and If you can see it you can 
 touch it, yes you can pick almost everything and do what you what with it. You can be a evil God 
 or a good God, the type of God you are depends on what you do, the miracles you use and how you 
 treat your people.
  
  Another great thing about this game are the Creatures, you can choose from 3 creatures, a Ape, 
 a Tiger and a Cow, at the beginning your creature is a small confused thing but it can grow to 
 the size of a mountain. The IA of the creature is really amazing, the creature really reacts to 
 the things you do and teach her, it can be a lovely creature that helps the people or a destruction 
 machine.
  
  
  It's because of this and other things that this game is one of the best games of his time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MitsurugiMaster
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 28, 2005 4:55 pm PT
Review:  When I installed Black and White on my humble computer, I felt as though I was doing something 
 grand. I felt as though I were taking my first steps into becoming an all-powerful god. The opening 
 video provided after installation did not displace my feeling of godliness and provided me with 
 a chuckle as a giant cow slowed down time "matrix-style" to attack another creature. This game 
 surely must be something grander than myself. 
  The opening level of the game provides the player with plenty of room to figure out the controls, 
 as well as a mind-numbingly thorough tutorial of how to tilt the screen and move. The graphics 
 are great, the fireballs and lighting effects are superb, and your creature shows his emotions 
 wonderfully.
  Yes, the creature. Your creature is by far the best, and funnest, aspect of Black & White. Everything 
 you do influences the way your creature behaves; from basic things like whether or not to shoot 
 fireballs at villagers, to what type of food he eats the most. After only an hour or so with your 
 creature he will have learned at least a few spells and is right there with you trying to convert 
 villages.
  But the villages is where the problem lies. You cannot pick up more than one person at a time. 
 What kind of a god can only pick up one person? Your villages are also CONSTANTLY in need of something. 
 If they need homes, you build them homes. Simple. But after you do that, then they decide that 
 they need more people since everyone has a home.
  Converting villages is, for the most part, a genuinely rewarding experience... Except when the 
 village is so far away that you have to spend hours just spreading your "influence" enough to get 
 there. 
  The game suffers from a complete difficulty curveball at the beginning of the 4th world (of which 
 there are 5) . From the start your village is under attack by fireballs, lightning, and gremlins 
 that come to steal your people. And there's not much you can do to save your poor town.
  The scroll quests are largely fun, most consist of find-this quests, but some are fun minigames. 
 Alas, the scrolls stop their goodness after the 2nd world. I'm not sure why, but the first 2 worlds 
 are packed with fun scrolls, and after that they are gone.
  
  Black and White is not for everyone. If you like Warcraft or Age of Kings, you are not guaranteed 
 to like this game. If you like micromanagement, well, this might just be the game for you. 
  I paint a bleak picture for the most part, but the game is not bad. The game is really quite good, 
 it's just frustrating at many points as the difficulty suddenly ramps up from easy to hard. 
  The spells are great and fun to use. The creature is awesome. The first level is lighthearted and 
 funny. If you have always wanted to be a god with the power to do (almost) anything, then buy this 
 game without hesitation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_Diverse_X
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 27, 2005 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Title: Black and White
  Publisher: EA Games
  Developer: Lionhead Studios
  Rating: Teen
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay in Black and White is pretty hard to understand t first, but you will 
 gat used to it. You have to click the ground with the left mouse button and move from there. The 
 right mouse button makes you interact with the environment and the left mouse button makes you 
 move around.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are really good for such low specs. Most likely this will run on any computer. 
 The graphics are superb and you only need 8MB of video memory.
  
  Sound - The sound n Black and White is very well done. The voice acting is very good and the environment 
 sounds are also good. You can hear just about aanything from the people talking to the birds chirping 
 in the air.
  
  Value - There are 5 Lands in the world of Black and White. These 5 lands will last you for a long 
 time and there is so much to do there. You can also play a Skirmish game to help your creature 
 become stronger. The AI is also very smart, if you just watch the people you can see them live 
 their lives.
  
  Tilt - I had so much fun with this game, and I still play it. This game is extremley fun and everyone 
 should try it.
  
  Thus, Lionhead Studios does not only make a great game, they also make a top strategy game ever 
 made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rasse397
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2005 3:00 am PT
Review:  I loved this game from the first moment I played it; I mean, who among us hasn't ever dreamed of 
 being a god?
  
  The simple fact is, there is no other game like it to date, and it provides a unique experience 
 and feeling of fun that no other game can provide in quite the same way.
  
  I will admit that the controls, as well as other aspects of the game, can be difficult to master 
 and can seem awkward at times. But if one can master these elements, the game is fun for hours 
 on end.
  
  Micromanagement of villages can become very difficult over time when things get expansive and resources 
 get low. There is only so much you and your creature (effort being put into training it very well, 
 of course) can handle doing at once. Some long games simply turn messy with no hope of you ever 
 being able to be 100% good to your followers.
  
  Still, all hard-to-master controls and micromanagement issues aside, this is a truly great and 
 unique game. I would reccomend it to anyone who enjoys strategy and real-time strategy, simulations 
 of any kind, and to anyone that just plain wants to be a god! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 1, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  God games are one of my fovourite genre. i rember those great titles ike Populous and Mega Lo mania 
 and I was very curious about what this game had to offer.
  When you play to the first two hours you will have the impression this game is very chilled out 
 and slow in gameplay and you really can do stuff just to see what happens. Later in the game this 
 will lead to the fact that your actions will be seen as good or bad, black or white. While giving 
 a villager you creature for lunch this behaviour will off course lead you to the black side if 
 done often. Unfortunately there are many things in the game like micro manangement of you villagers 
 which can turn you rather unforseen into a bad god although you wanted to stay on the good side.
 
  
  Example:
  Your villagers complain about food. Therefore you give them more so the desire for children will 
 raise. Ok, lets make some breeders. Then this little people want more houses
  so you keep on building while you will have a new need for wood and you notice that there no more 
 woods around. So you keep on doing all that stuff giving the best you can and this people won't 
 shut up and complain more and more. Of course you can't manage all this at once and it will get 
 tougher if not too tough later on in the game which leads you, despite all you tries, to the bad 
 side.
  A major design fault in my eyes.
  
  And this is the biggest problem I have with the game it's supposed to give you freedom but for 
 many things in this world you just can't see the effect before if you do or don't do something. 
 This is especially bad because the game will only have one main save which means you can't go back 
 to a certain point if you not satisfied with your progress.
  
  The creature which will represent your doings by watching your actions and 
  copying it is a 
 nice feature although I found the fighting stuff uninteresting.
  Speaking of creature fighting this takes places when your creature meets up with a other enemy 
 creature. A temporary outlined arena appears and you find yourself clicking on the bodyparts of 
 the enemy creature which then will attacked by your creature as long as one of the beasts hits 
 the ground. I just can say thats it's kinda stupid to watch a cow fight an tiger both standing 
 on their feets. But hey, at least it's something I haven't seen in any other game out there till 
 today.
  
  The graphics might seem a little outdated in 2005 but they still do their job well.
  The sound 
 is done pretty nice although there coul've been more variety in the complain speech from the villagers. 
 To hear the same quote like "We need food" or "offspring" over and over again gets annoying since 
 the most stuff can't be fixed in just five minutes.
  
  
  So in the end the major problems I had with the game is the sometimes not transparent unforgiving 
 gameplay, the overwhelming things you have to take care of and the rather stupid villagers which 
 just need too much micromanagement.
  But if you can bypass this problems you might give it a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Behlazur
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 20, 2005 4:37 am PT
Review:  Black & White is a bizarre game. Part RTS, part RPG, part adventure, part fighting... it can't 
 be classified into one genre. Just know that you are a newborn god and you have to make people 
 believe in you. For that, you can put them on fire, kill some villagers, poison them and make them 
 fear you. That's the "black" part of the title. But you can also (and I recommend you to do so) 
 help them live a better life, make childrens, giving them food and other resources, protecting 
 them from attacks and making them happy to worship you, or the "white" side.
  
  You must also train your Creature, an animal with godlike powers such as yours. You must teach 
 him how to interact with the villagers (good or evil) , perform miracles, make him fight enemy gods' 
 creatures... A real little Sims-like.
  
  Black & White is an experience as much as it is a game, so that means it's a "love it or hate it" 
 game. But since you probably can't rent PC games, I recommend you to buy it, and sell it again 
 if you don't like it. But you should like... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 28, 2005 6:44 pm PT
Review:  A very unique game to say the least. I enjoyed the God concept, but hated the creature. 
  
  I really liked being able to build up and influence cities. Dropping things and watching people 
 run away at ridiculous speeds was certainly entertaining. I really liked being able to give people 
 'jobs' and have them go and do them automatically; it really gives you a quick way to gain or reduce 
 the income of resources quickly. 
  
  Spells were also fun to cast, but there were too few of them. I really liked how Black & White 
 makes you influence other cities to worship you to get new spells, it's a much more interesting 
 way of gaining new spells rather than gaining it at the next 'act' or level as with other games. 
 
  
  Another unique idea in Black & White is having a creature which you have to teach, but it feels 
 like raising a kid, and I hate kids. I like being able to give orders, not suggestions, which is 
 basically what controlling the creature comes down to. You can tell him or her what is good and 
 bad, and he/she will act accordingly. Now, I'm not a big fan of PETA, but something about beating 
 an animal to tell him 'no', just isn't enjoyable. 
  
  Black & White is a unique game, and I enjoyed it for a few days, but I really got tired of the 
 creature (the stupid thing kept stealing the children's soccer ball...) . If you don't mind having 
 to raise and teach a creature then you might enjoy this game; if you hate that idea, stay away! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suzabbe
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 18, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Seemingly good game that drew me in and spit me out. The concept is you are a God of a surprisingly 
 large number of whining, needy, under appreciating farmers. Top that off with a 'creature' you 
 must raise from infancy to fighting adulthood and you've got Black and White. Do you choose to 
 raise your creature good or evil, hence the concept of Black and White? Keep in mind your creature 
 will mimic everything you do, need constant feeding and attention and be just as whiny as most 
 of your people if not more so. The constant pleas of your people and excruciatingly numerous requests 
 of your creature make this game more of a headache than entertainment. The one good thing about 
 it is if you get bored, as I did, you can bowl your people down with trees and fencing and throw 
 them into the sea where they die for a short period and mysteriously return to their daily jobs 
 after a few minutes. Because your creature will mimic everything you do, it's entertaining to watch 
 it throw farmers to the sea as well. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Captain_Carrot
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 1, 2005 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Black and White has total freedom it seems. But when you look at it you really dont have any freedom 
 at all. Your a God and you spend all day looking after your people who whine at you all the time 
 and looking after your stupid creature who just went for a dump on your temple.
  
  Or is it?
  
  Its not! Unlike most games Black and White does let you do what you want. Sure 
 your people may be starving and weak and crawling through the village in the hot sun and your creature 
 may be eating your villages supply of grain but that that doesn't mean you have to help them. You 
 only do it if you want to. 
  
  Most people will however do their best to expand their villages and gain influence over the land 
 and train theri creatures to run amongst them impressing them with miracles you have thought him. 
 And over time he will grow, tall and strong. 
  
  Ahhhh, your creature. All creatures are unique whether you have a horse, a lion, a tiger, an ape, 
 a bear etc etc. They will grow as you mould them. Give them tatoos, make them fat, make them evil, 
 make them benevolent. You wont raise the same creature twice.
  
  Black and White has a storyline if you want to go that way. To forward in this game you will have 
 to impress villagers and gain influence. You do this by performing miracles and doing things that 
 the common gardener person cant do.
  
  Like crush a house with a barrage of rocks, fireballs and lightning bolts....
  
  In all Black 
 and White offers you a unique experiance that will keep you playing for a long time. Pick it up 
 if you dont already have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arathin
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  Black and White is a hard game to describe. Of course, it is an excellent game, and well worth 
 the purchase. But there are some minor set-backs which will probably be resolved in the upcoming 
 sequel. Apart from these set-backs, the game is simply a masterpiece. It's original, it's fun to 
 play, and it's down right entertaining.
  
  You're a god. You can do anything you wish with your powers. If you want, you can be evil and terrorize 
 your citizens, or you can be holy and protect them from harms way. You can switch from one allignment 
 to another, but it takes time. You can throw villagers around, or you can heal them. You can destroy 
 buildings with rocks, or you can help to create them. The choice is yours.
  
  A major part of the game is the introduction of a creature, or in this case, your very own pet. 
 There are over ten creatures to choose from, and any can be shaped into whichever allignment you 
 wish. The creature is your minion and he will do anything you wish, where it be eating villagers 
 or fishing.
  
  The AI that was created for these creatures is one of the most technical used in any game thus 
 far. Your creature can grow faster depending on what he eats, he can learn magic and skills for 
 survival, he can become stronger by carrying around rocks or fighting, and he can be taught where 
 to do such things as toilet neccessities. Lionhead use an amazing amount of AI that is hidden within 
 the game. If I recall, it even got a nomination for the Guiness Book of Records in 2001.
  
  There are so many hidden easter eggs within the game. There are many quests available to the player 
 to complete, or you can just ignore the quests and gain influence over the villages. There are 
 several hidden creatures to be unlocked, and three downloadable creatures from the internet.
  
  The game holds some minor setbacks however, as it has several glitches within the game. Luckily, 
 a patch for the game was released for the game which fixes several major issues. This could prove 
 complicated for those that do not have the opportunities that the internet has to offer.
  
  Black and White is superb. Lionhead have done a fantastic job in creating this game, and I and 
 many others look forward to their future works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asche
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2004 5:19 pm PT
Review:  This is a fantastic game, very addictive. Challenging without being brutally hard. The tutorial 
 period is longer than many games which can be frustrating for seasoned gamers, but there are some 
 useful instructions expecially with regards to creature handling. The quest are a lot of fun, with 
 several possible solutions and rewards. The choice is usually binary but that doesn't diminish 
 the enjoyment. Your conscience is also quite humorous (especially if you are inactive for a period 
 of time... they have plenty to say when they think you aren't looking!) . There are some parts of 
 creature AI that are a bit disatisfying, for instance, despite my angelic disposition I could not 
 stop my dear cow from eating the odd villager (or the odd lump of poo... gross!) , and I never could 
 get her not to eat that hermit! She was always a bit moody, that one. Other than that this game 
 is great, I've spent untold hours playing the main story as well as maps of my own design created 
 with a third-party program. Play and story aside, there is just something very satisfying about 
 watching your village grow, and there is no need to move ahead until you are quite ready to leave 
 behind the town you've just built. It's too bad I've never been able to get it to work on my recently 
 upgraded system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikromouse
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 29, 2004 5:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm not normally a man with a short-attention span. In fact, I've sat through some pretty long 
 games and I can hold my own in a Halo/H2 Marthon session. But this was ridiculous...
  
  Within 30 minutes of playing Black and White I realized one thing: I was never going to get past 
 creature training. To me, that single feature was enough to be its own game. I enjoyed training 
 him, having him poop in people's fields for fertilizer, and teaching him how to forage for food.
 
  
  30 minutes. Thats it.
  
  Sure, there were little quest sheets for me to follow but trying to undertake them proved to be 
 quite boring for me and I was back to taking my creature for walks and slapping him around.
  
  Call me bored.
  
  The game itself had so many elements that were new and unsusual. New 
 ways of navigation, gesture based movements, and this incredible AI (in the background) . To me 
 what turned me off was that there was just too much stuff to do. I could just get lost and I had 
 a life and didn't have enough time to devote myself to the full play. On top of that, technical 
 requirements at the time would've made me upgrade my video card (something that I really hate doing) .
 
  
  In short, I didn't like it that much, but I acknowledge that you will... if you have some time on 
 your hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 19, 2004 9:12 am PT
Review:  Ok so the graphics looked good and it was cool in the beginning when I was learning to play BUT 
 and isn't it allways BUT.
  
  I had to fight constant bugs. I swear this is the last time I buy a game when it first comes out. 
 If I wanted to be a beta tester then I want the game free. Maybe I am slow or something.
  
  The learning curve is not just using the game controlls but it is teaching your creature too, besides 
 trying to figure out the puzzels left for you to solve.
  
  Now then if you are into MICRO management then you will love this game BUT I thought when you trained 
 your Creature it would take care of your villagers while you were off impressing your enemys villagers. 
 It was amazing how quickly you as a Deity turned Evil. If you were not constantly watching your 
 village it grew so big it starved and your creature must have liked watching sex because all it 
 did was make breeders. I did get the creature which I picked the Monkey for my creature. Anyway 
 I could get the monkey to water the farms and forest while I watched it but as soon as I went away 
 it picked up eating the villagers or some other bad habbit.
  Honestly I played and played this game and tried to like it in fact I bought because I thought 
 I liked it. I guess it was I liked the idea I was being fed by the advertisements for this game. 
 OH well maybe MOM and DAD made a mistake with this child by thinking I was learning something from 
 them. truth in advertisement" andBuyer beware "
  
  Sory folks I tried with this one and I didn't learn because I went and got creature Island thinking 
 it would be better. I am sure there are big fans of this game out there but not me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenBanana
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 30, 2004 2:30 am PT
Review:  Although the game itself is really good, after you beat the story mode, or come to a dead end, 
 and you beat the very limited extra games, it gets quite boring.
  
  In the game, you are a god controlling a civilization. You can do many things, such as set up buildings, 
 harvest farms and animals for food, cutting down wood, throwing around your people, and lastly, 
 casting miracles. There are at least 30 miracles in the game, but finding and using them can be 
 quite restricted. The whole game is quite fun, but after a while, it gets quite boring. I never 
 managed to finish the story mode, it got quite boring. 
  
  This game had quite a bit of potential, but because it was so small and got boring, I haven't played 
 it for a while. Hopefully the sequel will be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iron-Dragon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 25, 2004 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Black and White is one of the most innovative games of its time period. You play as a god who oversees 
 the prosperity of certain towns and eventually you compete with other gods for control of these 
 towns. However, what makes this game so innovative is the freedom. If you love the freedom of games 
 like Grand Theft Auto then you should give this one a go. The fundamental choice you must make 
 is your alignment and your creature. Obviously you can be either a "good" god or an "evil" god. 
 This choice affects the way you have to move through the game. For example, if you use evil spells 
 to bring a town to their knees it will be faster, but you will need to rebuild the town once it 
 is yours and vice-versa for using good spells. Your creature is a huge godly animal that is an 
 extension of yourself. Your creature learns from you and imitates you, almost like young children. 
 The variety of such creatures is excellent as well. The graphics and sound on this game are absolutely 
 superb, being its best qualities. The gameplay can become repetitive at times, but is generally 
 very good. When you finallly finish this game after a long 20-40 hour quest, you feel a large sense 
 of accomplishment. This game is definitely worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 30, 2004 4:11 am PT
Review:  Initially, this game got stunning reviews... then people realized how boring it gets after only 
 a few hours. Black and White is quite possibly the most tedius game ever made. 
  
  Gameplay: This game sold itself as innovation. And truly, it is innovative, the only problem is 
 that, while this game is very, very different from anything that had been seen before, it was so... 
 boring. Gameplay goes like this: Please your people, feed the animal, please the people, feed the 
 animal, (oh man why are the people just dying!?) ... Or you can terrorize the civilians, which is 
 fun for a few minutes. 
  
  There are several missions across various islands, and as you go on, each one gets more and more 
 tedius, and, if possible, more difficult. Yes, this game is very hard. I am no stranger to video 
 games at all, but I have to admit, this was one of the most challenging games ever. And it wasn't 
 that the challenge is bad, it is that the challenge is just annoying. You must constantly micromanage 
 EVERYTHING, watching over hordes of civilians at a time, AND keeping track of your beast, is very 
 annoying.
  
  You get a creature in this game, which is fun, you can raise it how you want, but in the end, it 
 adds to the extreme frustration of this game. Often did I search the map for several minutes for 
 my creature who had wandered off, even though it was on a leash. This was very, very annoying.
 
  
  Just about everything about this game's gameplay, is boring and jarringly annoying, do not get 
 this game.
  
  Graphics: Even today, these graphics kick. The one redeeming quality of this game.
  
  Sound: 
 There is virtually no sound in this game, and what there is is unnoticeable.
  
  Value: 10$ for both this game and its expansion is a fairly good value, but this game isnt good 
 at all.
  
  Tilt: When this game came out, the reviewers were dazzled by its stunning graphics and innovative 
 gameplay, however, it has not stood the test of time, and many a reviewer in magazines, and online 
 sites have wished they could take their 9.0+ reviews back, and show what the game is really like. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 14, 2004 8:17 am PT
Review:  .. a lot of people have major problems trying to get the game to run, or stop the game from crashing. 
 I had no problems with the game myself, it worked fine.
  
  The game was very innovative when it was released. Being able to choose your alignment, do you 
 want to be a good god or an evil god? And as you choose your alignment, your creature and temple 
 changes with it. If your good your tower is white with doves flying around the top. If your evil 
 it turns to a dark colour, spikes grow out of it and bats fly around the top. 
  
  You choose what creature you want and then you start to train him using leashes. Depending on if 
 you want him to be good or bad, healthy or sick.. theres a lot you can do. For instance if you 
 want him to not feel to good, get him to eat his own feaces or eat villagers. Or if you want him 
 to be healthy teach him to eat fish and grain, and you can get him to help out villagers by getting 
 them food, lumber etc. He can also cast miracles if you train him too. It doesn't take much to 
 get your creature to learn. You can build them up, by getting your creature to pick up a boulder 
 and walk around the island with it, building up his strength. Or you could get him to walk around 
 picking up villagers and throwing them off cliffs.
  
  I actually really enjoyed the single player campaign, although it got quite hard towards to end. 
 The early missions were a lot of fun, testing out things. Throwing boulders down hills into nearby 
 villages to get belief is always fun. (Belief is needed to convert villages to your side) . Burning 
 down huts are also a lot of fun, although make sure they are your enemies, cause it's annoying 
 trashing a village to have it believe in you and then you have to rebuild it so your influence 
 grows.
  
  The game is a lot of fun, has a lot of features and when the game was released a lot of people 
 loved it. It's a shame that so many people have suddenly turned around and say they hate the game. 
 It's not as bad as everyone says. 
  
  The missions were great, i loved how you always had options of doing to right thing or the wrong 
 thing. Do you save the villagers drowning yourself? Do you get your creature to save them? Do you 
 let them drown, do you get your creature to make them drown faster? Do you get your creature to 
 save them only to then eat them.. you have a lot of choices. The missions are varied and are a 
 lot of fun.
  
  There isn't much point getting this titles anymore, unless your wanting to try it out before Black 
 & White 2 is released. The sequel will have a lot more features, including the ability to build 
 armies and wage war. They announced a while ago they were going to make quite a number of Black 
 & White titles, so there it's going to be interesting seeing what they do with the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacsea
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 4, 2004 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game when it originally came and really enjoyed it. Of course, newer games have come 
 and gone, a new computer was bought and I basically forgot about it until recently. Surprisingly 
 enough, I still enjoy it. Yes, it does have its flaws, what game out there doesn't? Overall however, 
 it's still an enjoyable game to play.
  
  Does it get tedious? Of course, but what RPG/Strategy game out there doesn't? - build a base, get 
 supplies, start building more additions, etc - tha'ts the goal of most of these games. Black and 
 White is no different - get a following, build up your worshippers and continue to expand. In addition, 
 like many new games out there, you get to decide whether or not you'll be evil or good - both sides 
 have their benefits and drawbacks. Evil is fun because your "god" doesn't care about his/her villagers 
 - you just want more power and will do whatever you need to do to expand your influence. Good is 
 fun because it's more challenging (if you can't throw fireballs to gain influence.... what do you 
 do????)
  
  Overall, I was and still am impressed with this game. After sitting around for a few years, I was 
 pleasantly surprised to find that the game still had some nice challanges... and hearing that a 
 sequel is on it's way is reason enough to pull it out of the cupboard and try it again.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 24, 2004 12:35 am PT
Review:  Peter Molyneux became an industry legend by leading the creation of such unique and ambitious god-games 
 like Dungeon Keeper and Populous. Armed with basically everything, he set out to create a new wonder 
 with his own company - the result is Black & White. As previously, in B&W you control the world 
 as a god represented on the screen by a hand. The first remarkable achievement of the game is the 
 interface: everything in the world can be done with the god's hand, and the enjoyable tutorial 
 that teaches you how to interact with gameworld objects (throw, put) , cast miracles and later interact 
 with your creature makes Black & White very easy to get into. The possible interaction with the 
 gameworld is the second big achievement of B&W and it largely distracts the attention from the 
 game's strategic aspects (more of that later) for the first few hours. It is important to note 
 the faith of the villagers, which is what your operating territory (influence sphere) and miracle 
 casting depend on, can be gained both in a good (filling up their granary with crops, for example, 
 or cast some impressive miracle) or a bad (taking a villager and throwing one high in the sky for 
 everyone to see, throw rocks at or burn their houses etc) way. According to your style of rule, 
 the land becomes either brighter or darker (compare the 2 turtle pictures) . The third and the biggest 
 achievement of Black & White is undoubtedly the creature (either a giant cow, ape, or tiger in 
 the original game) that can be taught just about anything you can do including miracles, eating, 
 relieving oneself :) etc. Using possibly the most complicated AI system in any game ever, you can 
 design the creature's alignment completely independent from yours by using positive or negative 
 re-inforcement after behaviours to express your approval. Creatures are responsible for the many 
 funny moments of B&W (such as slapping or petting and getting the creature's reaction) , they grow 
 in size and wisdom through your campaign and can also be taken online against other opponents (creature 
 vs creature showdown is especially fun) . Behind all this interesting flashbang, there is a strategy 
 game too. Once the village believes enough in you, that means is converted, it becomes an important 
 consideration how many villagers to make your disciples (foresters, fishermen, craftsmen, farmers, 
 builders, breeders) to increase their efficiency and how many to leave praying to accumulate faith 
 points. In the original game, nurturing the complaining villagers as well as building new structures 
 (that takes especially long) gets repetitive quite quickly, and the creature does not save you 
 from doing the most tedious things over and over again. The second big problem was that there were 
 other gods to compete with, and often a fight for converting a particular village resulted in a 
 sort of stalemate situation where no god made any progress. The smart expansion Creature Isle corrects 
 both of the problems. Other gods are lost, and the campaign is broken into a diverse series of 
 minigames that let you play around with the game's impressive physics engine, AI tricks and your 
 creature that starts to take care of a creature of its own, named Tyke! Both your creature and 
 Tyke can learn how to assist humans in the formerly especially slow process of constructing buildings, 
 and after each of the 20 creature-specific missions, each creature type becomes available to be 
 challenged to a creature duel by you or his body type to be switch to. Black & White looked very 
 impressive back in 2001 in its possibility to zoom in and out as wished as well as detailed animations 
 and bodily movements of creatures. B&W took 3 years to develop, and it is just about time Lionhead 
 released another game. B&W 2 and Fable for X-box are definite titles in the making.
  
  18/20 - Based on 5 HOURS
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - Probably hightest in the industry: creature 
 AI, great looks, interaction with gameworld.
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY - Easy to learn, a very transparent interface (everything can be by using using 
 mouse) .
  2/4 PACING - B&W is more interesting as a toy to play with creature or to learn to fulfill particular 
 assignments. Later RTS part of the game is less fitting and successful.
  4/4 INNOVATION - Totally. Where else could you raise a creature and teach him things.
  4/4 IMMERSION 
 - When you're messing with that pet, it's similar to a total tamagochi obsession. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Lae
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 24, 2004 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Black & White is an interesting game. If you were to scour the internet for professional reviews, 
 you would notice that the vast majority of them are quite positive. Looking for user reviews, however, 
 the opinions are almost exactly in the opposite, and replies of "Ugh" are common when you mention 
 Black & White around someone who has played it. Disappointing, some would say. Gimmicky, maybe. 
 Gets old quick. But innovative? Yes. There's no denying that.
  
  The game has you take the role of a god, from an opening cinematic that has you soaring down from 
 the heavens and rescuing a child from the ocean with your disembodied hand (also your method of 
 interacting with the world) . The grateful parents suggest you follow them back to the village so 
 the villagers can worship you. Once you get yourself established by going through a long tutorial, 
 you'll get to choose your minion, which takes the form of an animal - the game refers to them simply 
 as Creatures, and at the start you can choose from three - a cow, monkey, or tiger. Each have varying 
 personalities to begin with (although fear is a common one between them all) , so where a tiger 
 would be more prone to running around eating villagers, a monkey would probably just pick them 
 up and throw them around.
  
  There is a great deal of complex AI involved with your creature, and a lengthy tutorial for him 
 as well. Three leashes (normal leash, leash of kindness, leash of aggression) can be used to order 
 him around and incite various behaviors. You can also zoom in on the creature at any time with 
 the right mouse button in order to scratch him or slap him (positive and negative reinforcement, 
 respectively) . You use all these tools in order to teach your creature things. It is this aspect 
 of Black & White that is the most fully realized, and training your creature is fun, and often 
 creepy. No matter how much attention you pay to your creature, there will no doubt me many occasions 
 where their actions will surprise you. Perhaps he was watching you uproot trees and replant them 
 near the village. Don't be too surprised to find him uprooting smaller trees (the big ones are 
 too big for him to handle at the start) and planting them by the ones you just moved. Your creature 
 also has to go to the bathroom, and apparently the temptation for them to eat it is just too great 
 - your creature will be rewarded by vomiting all over the ground.
  
  As you progress in the game, the strategy elements become clearer - you are pitted against other 
 gods (who also have creatures) and you can build up your village and eventually take over others. 
 Villagers can be individually assigned tasks (building, logging, food gathering, etc) and once 
 you've accumulated enough magic power from allocating villagers to dance for you at your temple, 
 you'll be able to cast a number of magic spells in order to topple the other gods' towns. Your 
 creature can fight other creatures, in a simplified sort of fighting engine (click on parts of 
 the enemy to attack, click on your own creature to defend) , and can cause havoc in enemy villages 
 or you can train him to help gather wood and food for your own.
  
  Ultimately, the creature aspect of Black & White is the most rewarding, although it can often get 
 frustrating as your creature won't always learn the way you think he will, and some habits are 
 extremely hard to break. But if you ever thought it would be funny to teach a digital creature 
 to throw his own feces, then at least give Black & White a try to realize that dream.
  
  Unfortunately, the strategy element can get very tedious as it's not particularly exciting building 
 up your villages, gathering things and placing building crates (stack enough together and the villagers 
 start construction) and the cumbersome way of interacting with the environment will get on your 
 nerves.
  
  Beyond that, the graphics are good (despite some funky looking and pixellated water effects) so 
 long as you don't zoom in too far. Some of the polygonal scaling is obvious as you move the camera 
 in and out, but it's hardly crippling to the game, especially given that the dull gameplay already 
 did that job. Sound is passable, with some good voice acting and some bad voice acting, and very 
 little in the way of music.
  
  In the end, Black & White is a creature simulator. It's not designed as such, though, and having 
 to manage the duller aspects of your villages can become tedious. It is fun to teach your creature 
 silly things, and it's also amusing when they become fat, or darken because they do evil things. 
 The same goes for you as a god, too - your temple will turn black or white and your floating hand 
 will grow pointy nails and turn red if you're an evil god who likes to destroy town and kill villagers. 
 The game does have some nice touches, and the word innovative fits the game like a glove. But when 
 that innovation is all that's there, it gets old very fast. Black & White is fun for a week or 
 so, but beyond that, you'll likely never want to play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziggyone
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 23, 2004 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Black and White is the most overrated game by reviewers everywhere. Liking the game for a short 
 period of time and when I say short, I mean no longer then a week, is not uncommon. The problem 
 with this game is that it gets old very fast. Why? Because after playing it for only a week you 
 realize that everything the game has to offer is simply no fun.
  
  There is nothing exciting or even really remotely fun. Most of the time you'll just be picking 
 up rocks and throwing them at an enemy village so you can get within reach of the town by gaining 
 faith in them. Of course you could go the nice route and throw food at them, but who wants to do 
 that? Regardless of what route you choose, it's still going to take you mucho time of try to force 
 certain towns to join your cause. The enemies in this game are not exactly aggressive enough to 
 give anyone a worthy challenge whatsoever. This game pretty much amounts to throwing stones to 
 get towns to join you and that is really the full extent of the game. How anyone can find this 
 entertaining is beyond me.
  
  In addition to that, you can also raise a pet. You can pet it, feed it, and attempt to teach it 
 how to do things. Sometimes it's helpful, but most of time you will find yourself being annoyed 
 by it. It gets hungry too often, it literally poops all over your town, leaving you to clean up 
 the mess. Boring. You can try to teach it to go away from your town, but the system is far from 
 flawless. The pet is also capable of performing miricles that you teach it, but will 90% of the 
 time use it at a not so ideal time. The AI behind the pets seems very flawed as they tend to forget 
 things or don't use them properly. Your pet can do combat, but it's far from exciting to say the 
 least. They do become good or evil based on what you do, which is pretty much the only thing in 
 this game that works properly.
  
  Repetitive is the word to best describe this game and I cannot recommend it to anyone as it is 
 a complete waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sevenwarlocks
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jul 26, 2004 9:56 am PT
Review:  Worst. Review. Ever.
  
  Greg, Greg, Greg. What were you thinking? I can't think of a single thing this game tried to do 
 that it ended up doing well. After the horrific lock-you-in intro that makes you play for 20 minutes 
 before you are allowed to save, you are taken to an island where you can A) play the dumbest real 
 time strategy game ever made, or B) tickle your monsters tummy and throw rocks. 
  
  If you do B for long enough, your monster will pick up a rock and throw it himself, but he will 
 have long since forgotton this trick before it could ever become useful.
  
  Then your monseter gets taken away and you get to spend five hours agonizingly dragging your camera 
 around an island so that you can pick up piles of wood and drop them into your town center.
  
  Don't play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ummagumma
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 29, 2004 5:50 am PT
Review:  Black & White was probably a victim of its own (and that of the many fan sites that sprouted up 
 around it) hype, although the game itself has many flaws that drag it down from the lofty heights 
 it aspires to. While gimmicks such as a mostly iconless interface driven by a gesture system, as 
 well as learn-on-the-fly A. I. work fairly well, the entire exercise has a clunky feeling to it; 
 what was supposed to bring the player more deeply into the game ultimately pushes her away. Pre-patch, 
 the user gets very little feedback on how they are progressing with what might be the game's biggest 
 draw: the trainable creatures. And even post-patch, guideposts to how things are going creature-wise 
 are lacking. As well, the extreme open-endedness of the gameplay leads to a feeling of disjointedness 
 as the game progresses. Plus, those damn whiney villagers who for all intents and purposes have 
 little or no intelligence, even so far as to being able to feed or shelter themselves without being 
 micromanages constantly by the player. So they end up perishing by the dozens, and it doesn't help 
 to have a urgent "deaaaaaaaaaath" whispering through the speakers every time one shuffles off to 
 pixel-guy heaven.
  
  Removed from the immediate hype that surrounded the game on release and patched, Black & White 
 comes off better, a daring experiment by famed game designer Peter Molyneux that is worth experiencing. 
 But in the end, it can't help but be tallied up as a disappointment in the cannon of PC game history. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HighStakes-
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 7, 2004 10:44 pm PT
Review:  B&W is awesome! The game is almost like a simulation of life, and while things move slowly, this 
 game is just awesome! Your job is to raise a creture according to your taste (Good, bad) , and the 
 create will react according to your choices. Its rather hard to be a good guy, but its worth it 
 :) . The creature itself interacts with the human characters, humans will worship you, you will 
 gain power all over the world, and just anything a "god" would do. This game is huge, and there 
 are plenty of things to do, and plenty of things are going on! So for these reasons, the game will 
 sometimes run a little slow, or a little choppy, but nothing big in nature that will affect the 
 gameplay. Just make sure you have the proper patches from EA's website, because i know for a fact 
 that this game wont work with Windows 2000 unless you get the Version 2 patch (and its not on EA's 
 website) . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
