-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Black & White 2 - Battle of the Gods
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/blackwhite2battleofthegods/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More of Black & White 2's unique gameplay.
 The creature remains one of the best virtual pets around.
 New challenges and minigames to enjoy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Handful of levels and new content, though each level can easily consume hours.
 Annoying graphical glitch from Black & White 2 still around.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 24, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.0, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 907 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Lionhead Studios
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Apr 24, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Battle of the Gods is a straightforward expansion that adds some new, but not remarkably different, 
 content to Black and White 2. 

  Six months after Black &amp; White 2 hit stores comes Black &amp; White 2: Battle of the Gods, 
 an expansion pack that adds some new content for would-be gods everywhere to enjoy. Like any expansion, 
 Battle of the Gods features new levels and abilities to play with, though you may find that it's 
 just more of the same. Still, when talking about Black &amp; White 2, that isn't such a bad thing. 

          The creature remains one of Black &amp; White's most-unique features, and he can be trained 
 to be the ultimate warrior.     

  Battle of the Gods once again puts you in the role of a nameless god whose existence depends upon 
 having devoted worshippers. The game takes its name from the fact that you can be as good or as 
 evil as you want, from being a benevolent god in a happy land to being an evil god in a dark and 
 twisted land. As you'd expect, Battle of the Gods picks up after the events of Black &amp; White 
 2. Just when you thought that everything was okay, a new undead god appears, complete with an undead 
 army of skeletons -- not to mention a cool, undead new creature. Once again, it'll be up to you to 
 crush this rival god on various isles by nurturing your followers and building a flourishing civilization 
 that lets you either assimilate the Aztec god's followers peacefully or militarily.  

  The core gameplay remains pretty much unchanged in the expansion, though you do get to battle it 
 out on a handful of new islands, some of which feel downright huge compared to those seen in Black 
 &amp; White 2. If you played Black &amp; White 2, you can import your existing creature to Battle 
 of the Gods, but if you didn't play that game, you can jump into the expansion immediately with 
 a new creature. There are two new creatures to choose from, as well, boosting the total up to six. 
 Regardless of whether you import an existing creature or start anew, you'll begin the expansion 
 with a boatload of tribute points, and you'll have to purchase the buildings and powers that you'll 
 start with.  

  Again, it's simple and easy to build up your follower's cities, as pretty much the entire game 
 can be played without ever touching the keyboard. Just use the mouse to do everything from laying 
 out cities to picking up and dropping citizens around on the map. You can also use the mouse to 
 punish or reward your creature for its behavior, so it's easy to quickly train it to do what you 
 want, from fertilizing fields with its manure to knocking down enemy walls.  

  The expansion does introduce new building types and powers. While it's nice that you can now build 
 crossroad signs that help your followers move around the town more easily, this and other features 
 don't seem to have a big impact on the overall game. Meanwhile, the difficulty level remains about 
 the same, as the artificial intelligence is content to send platoons at you in a steady and regular 
 stream, making it easy to crush them with your creature. Defeating the enemy is also unchanged. 
 While it's possible to simply assimilate them peacefully by building a grand city that makes them 
 want to defect, the sheer size of some of these maps can make this a long and drawn out process, 
 since you'd need a huge and impressive city. So you can send your creature into the fray to defeat 
 the enemy's creature and crush the Aztec armies, while building platoons to seize and capture Aztec 
 towns. Whether you pursue a peaceful or militaristic approach, you'll find that it'll take you 
 hours to get through each map, which is probably a good thing considering there are only a handful 
 of new maps in the expansion.  

          Most of the game is spent city building, and once again it's up to you to squeeze as many 
 buildings as possible into a limited space.     

  Perhaps the biggest noticeable change is the addition of more minigame challenges that you can 
 pursue for tribute points, which let you unlock new buildings and powers. These challenges can 
 provide a short diversion from the main focus of the game, as you can solve puzzles, partake in 
 some ice curling, shoot down zombies with lightning bolts, and more. Then again, these diversions 
 aren't really necessary, and you'll usually tackle them at the end of a level after you rout the 
 Aztec god from the land.  

  Battle of the Gods is a fairly straightforward expansion, as it introduces some new content for 
 Black &amp; White 2 fans to enjoy and it sticks to the safe path of more of the same. The visuals 
 and production values remain relatively unchanged and are fairly good, though there's an annoying 
 graphical glitch that we saw in Black &amp; White 2 that still hasn't been addressed, that being 
 the weird streaking effect whenever you zoom in on your creature. Still, if indulging a god complex 
 is your thing, you'll probably enjoy Battle of the Gods.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: vash_thrawn
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Black and White 2: Battle of the Gods, is great improvement on an already excellent game. More 
 buildings, like a dovecote, it is a dove farm. Yes I said dove and in a peaceful bird but it generates 
 impressiveness and keeps populace happy which is a good thing if you are a good god. More miracles 
 life my favorite is the Life miracle which is a powerful offensive weapon against the vast undead 
 horde that you face in this game. But it will also allow you to resurrect the dead in a good way, 
 if you are bad you can summon forth your own undead army via the death power. Better AI and the 
 fact that you don't have to retrain your pet creature, you can import your one from B&W2 or train 
 a new one including to new ones a lion or a turtle. All in all this is a good game and well worth 
 getting. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob9999999999
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Battle of the Gods was a fun game that continued the story of the original Black and White 2. However, 
 very little was added. The only difference was a few new maps (which is only good because there 
 are no random or user-created ones) , a couple new creatures (but come on... new skins - i expected 
 a little more) , and some more buildings / powers. The buildings were cool and added to the game, 
 but not significantly. Many of them were just used to add a little to the city, but none of them 
 were necessary. As far as powers go i primarily used the ones from the original Black and White 
 2. The new ones weren't useless, but they weren't exactly necessary. (Nothing beats good old lighning 
 :-) ) . The new enemies were kind of fun, and i like that the games plays differently for good / 
 evil players. There is little gray area though. Black and White is basically that. I realized that 
 it was far easier to either be completely good or completely evil. Having an option of more balance 
 could have been a useful addition. Also, the game starts to grind a little on some of the big maps. 
 Build houses, destroy more enemy forces, maybe even take a town. The game is good but later in 
 the game i would like to see more options for what to do.
  
  I liked Black and White 2 and nothing was worse in the sequel. I wouldn't recommend buying it though 
 unless you get it packaged with the original and get a good deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leop4rd
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  of course you can say that its an expansion pack and battle of the gods is just that and nothing 
 more. good expansions do something that they should have done in the first time round. I'm talking 
 about the multiplayer. i mean you would have thought that with all the complaints about the lack 
 of multiplayer that lionhead would have thought hmm maybe we should put a multiplayer in but no 
 they just continued their own thing. the expansion pack is like an inside-joke, its always the 
 same but still good. if your going to be evil you might as well buy a better RTS because the system 
 they have for battles is poor. its just whoever has the most troops wins. i also think that if 
 your evil and you win a level your army should continue through. if the battles were like rome-total 
 war battle it would be one of the best games ever. its just too basic so the other option is being 
 good which ofcourse is almost impossible without having archers at your walls which is considered 
 evil..... the addition of an enemy god is interesting as theres a little more variety but its still 
 too samey. the best bit about black and white two was city building as it was much much easier 
 and it was more interesting and this is further enhanced with a couple more buildings but nothing 
 major. in summery i think this expansion lacks the expectations of the people and it leaves you 
 wanting more.... please make a multiplayer and put us out of our misery! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lveeserlynn
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 11, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to be quiet entertaing, the consciences arguing, your creature's reactions to 
 punshiment or reward. The only draw back was that you are always darting from end of the map to 
 the other. Your people are always after something they refuse to do themselves, and the only way 
 to win half the time is just to build buildings and not armies. You just can't let your people 
 sit they are lazy and require next to constant attention. If their every whim is not satisfied 
 they don't breed which means they grow too old to work and you then have a retirment community 
 no fun.
  Still a rather fun game, if you can keep ahead of your worshipers!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commanderkai
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 26, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Ah the expansion for Black and White 2. I just bought both the original and expansion just recently 
 so I played the original first and then this. I find this entire game amazing and stunning. Wonderful 
 graphics and gameplay. However, the expansion.... is lacking.
  
  First, I do enjoy some of the new features of the expansion. The new miracles are wonderful, and 
 I do like the new embellishments and buildings, albeit there were not as many as I hoped. The buildings 
 aren't the most important aspect of the game, they truly do add more... realism I guess. The turtle 
 is also a new and welcomed creature.
  
  However, including the bonus campaign, there are only four maps. Four... and once again, there is 
 no skirmish or sandbox mode. Why? Why? Why? Either of those would of brought its replay value to 
 100%, while playing the campaign over, the only real option in the game, isn't as challenging anymore 
 after beating the game once. There were some pathfinding bugs once and a while as well which I 
 truly found annoying, along with issues that enemy warriors could just through my walls (had this 
 issue in the Norse map)
  
  However, any fan of the original should purchase this expansion to help complete their game further. 
 I hope in Black and White 3 or Black and White 2's next expansion they include a skirmish mode.
 
  
  -Commanderkai 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truemattyz
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 1, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  hi .. if you have read my review on black and white 2, or any other lionhead studio game you probably 
 know were this is going. this game is a master peice for me it is wahat makes gaming i get lost 
 in it . so imersive and rightchous. you get to chose between being bad or good. i havent managed 
 to be bad yet.. i care to much about my ppl and i didnt like to hit my creature. (amazing) its 
 that tehre that makes lionhead studios so ace. the way you are so involved.
  
  i got disopointed tho my monkey owned everything in site and then i deleted him.. i lost my pal 
 !! he was strong and will be missed. he was also clever and i could not stop him from giving my 
 pps food ! at least he cared !
  
  amazing if i as a pc gamer loose out to xbox360 i will be very sad. i am really looking forawrd 
 to what follows (fable 2) but am a bit aprehensive on wheter i will see it on my beefed up pc .. 
 ashame really cos the money ive spent i could have bout 3 xbox360's but i love my pc too much.. 
 and i will always remeber great games like this and the lionhead studio era.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdiamond50
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  The bad is that this game is almost the exactly the same as the second.
  
  The good is it is still fun, you have some new options, you get to do almost anything you want 
 like throwing fire or lightning, and it doesn't get boring.
  
  In the game you could get a new creature or an old creature from the last game. You can also decide 
 if you are good, evil, or even. If you are even you get a lot more money (forgot what the currency 
 in that game is called) but you start off with less things.
  
  This game is fun but if you didn't like the second game then don't get the expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemesis2403
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  ... but this expansion pack simply doesn't add enough content. Don't get me wrong, Black and White 
 2 is a great game and so is Black and White 2: Battle of the Gods. Yet the latter simply doesn't 
 add enough new items to add to your godly arsenal.
  
  There are new items: an Abattoir, Blacksmith and Hospital amongst a host of embellishments but 
 thats it. In fact there are just 11 new items - 8 of which are embellishments, 3 of which are signposts! 
 Not very impressive, no? There are 4 miracles which are good though. You can turn the hordes of 
 skelatons into fluffy rabbits, unleash a pool of lava, bring the dead back to life and spawn an 
 undead army. These are good work on behalf of Lionhead. You get to play on 4 new lands that are 
 quite large. Well, 1 land is just an introduction so your playing on 3. It is therefore short and 
 the storyline is rushed. However, I feel that this is much harder and challenging to complete compared 
 to B&amp; W2. You also get a new creature! The tortoise! This is probibally the best aspect of the 
 game. If there was 1 thing that was wrong with B&amp; W2, the lack of creatures certainly was up 
 the top.
  
  However, it's definatly worth buying. Don't expect the same value for money but it is certainly 
 very challenging and what content is added is certainly entertaining to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun game to play, but is difficult and irritating in that you pretty much have to 
 start over each time you die in order to rebuild with any kind of success. Interesing idea for 
 a game. Dispite it's originality, it lacks much interest. I hate that you have to watch the video's 
 each time you restart a level, the gameplay can be kind of glitchy, even on good systems, and there 
 are not enough creatures to choose from. The voice overs are well-done, but over-used and annoying. 
 I simply stopped playing this game after about two weeks because I was annoyed with the repitition 
 of it and the characters in the game. Part of me still wants to finish the game, but the other 
 part just doesn't want to have to listen to the characters in the game any longer.
  Furthermore, the gameplay issues from the first game were not resolved in this expansion, the game 
 is still too difficult and repetitive, and I still hate having to watch the movies every time I 
 start the game. This expansion did not offer much to the game at all, other than a new challenge 
 and one or two new creatures to choose from. Snooze............ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindstorm47
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 12, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  All-in-all it is an excellent game for people who want to be evil in a game. I would have appreciated 
 some mods to toy with, or more drastic change in your evilness. This game is necessary for expanding 
 your evilness in your creature, and you. There is not much potential for "GOOD", but there seems 
 to be alot of potential in the Turtle. It would be funny if you could raise a penguin, but nOooOooo. 
 lol.
  
  ps. The starving Ape is the **** Does anyone know if you can starve your creature, or make your 
 hand swell?
  
  - Pinhead Inferno
  Mike Weaver - Kanata (Canada) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alistervk
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 22, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  Black & White 2 Battle of the Gods
  
  Well it is almost the same as the last. One new animal, a few new miracles and a few more buildings 
 and that is that. Everything else is exactly the same. There are a grand total of 4 new lands, 
 which is so short. The last land is almost impossible to win by force (evil) because the AI just 
 keeps regenerating even though he has no resources. 
  
  I really enjoyed the last one but this time it seemed that the developer is trying very hard to 
 make an extra buck out of it. If you loved the first one you will love the expansion. If you hate 
 the first one Stay Away! 
  
  Review 2 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aric172
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 26, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Though it was a fun addition to the original game, I don't think that it added anything spectacular 
 to the gameplay. Although it includes a small addition of miracles (inclluding life, death, lava, 
 and verdant) , a small addition of building for both good and bad, and new creature choices, these 
 good qualities are quickly outweighed by the limited number of levels that are available.
  It would have been good if all of the new features were available for play in the regular game. 
 This could include adding all of the new features into the old scenarios. Also, the game needs 
 to have simple skirmish levels: allowing you to play a map without following the main story line. 
 This would add to the gameplay and replay value.
  In closing, a good addition that could have been better, but at it's low price, it's worth getting 
 to experience... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoelf7003
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 11, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  it was so nice when i completed black and white 2 i really felt empty and i waited for a long time 
 for the expension pack and there it was just the other day hitting the stores and i was 1 of the 
 first to buy it.
  
  I think that they stick pretty good to all that things about being a god and you have to battle 
 another gods (battle of the gods) because this game is far more based on thew combat then black 
 & white 2 but i thinks thats a good thing that they make the expension pack like that
  
  the gameplay is good you get captured if you like theese kind of games where you are in major charge 
 :D
  
  graphics alone makes it very nice to play (if you got the right machine) i actually had to buy 
 a new 1 just to play Black & White 2 : (
  
  another thing i really like is that in this expension pack there are new miracles lava is my favorite 
 (i lake to make patterns lol) 
  
  and the last thing im gonna mention that i like about this game is that you actually from the start 
 can choose you animal or load and then choose to be custom alligment or good/evil you actually 
 don't have to smash so much of your own stuff you can be it from the begging
  
  but this game is worth every penny and i hope that this review helped you just a little (bye the 
 way im only 14 and this is my first review ever so plz don't rag down on me :D) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregorys_world
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 8, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  the game has 3 new mission to play and a new creature in it. if you want to bring you creature 
 from black & white 2 you can. another god thing is the other god you face. he has his own style 
 and the way the computer play him the AI in the game is better then in black and white 2. The bad 
 things are that the game does not have on-line play and it does not have a skirmish mode. that 
 does not make the game fun. but the single player just put enough in the game to make it fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SBHKGLYDJYGKL
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 6, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  Battle of the Gods once again puts you in the role of a nameless god whose existence depends upon 
 having devoted worshippers. The game takes its name from the fact that you can be as good or as 
 evil as you want, from being a benevolent god in a happy land to being an evil god in a dark and 
 twisted land. As you'd expect, Battle of the Gods picks up after the events of Black & White 2. 
 Just when you thought that everything was okay, a new undead god appears, complete with an undead 
 army of skeletons -- not to mention a cool, undead new creature. Once again, it'll be up to you to 
 crush this rival god on various isles by nurturing your followers and building a flourishing civilization 
 that lets you either assimilate the Aztec god's followers peacefully or militarily. 
  
  The core gameplay remains pretty much unchanged in the expansion, though you do get to battle it 
 out on a handful of new islands, some of which feel downright huge compared to those seen in Black 
 & White 2. If you played Black & White 2, you can import your existing creature to Battle of the 
 Gods, but if you didn't play that game, you can jump into the expansion immediately with a new 
 creature. There are two new creatures to choose from, as well, boosting the total up to six. Regardless 
 of whether you import an existing creature or start anew, you'll begin the expansion with a boatload 
 of tribute points, and you'll have to purchase the buildings and powers that you'll start with. 
 
  
  Again, it's simple and easy to build up your follower's cities, as pretty much the entire game 
 can be played without ever touching the keyboard. Just use the mouse to do everything from laying 
 out cities to picking up and dropping citizens around on the map. You can also use the mouse to 
 punish or reward your creature for its behavior, so it's easy to quickly train it to do what you 
 want, from fertilizing fields with its manure to knocking down enemy walls. 
  
  The expansion does introduce new building types and powers. While it's nice that you can now build 
 crossroad signs that help your followers move around the town more easily, this and other features 
 don't seem to have a big impact on the overall game. Meanwhile, the difficulty level remains about 
 the same, as the artificial intelligence is content to send platoons at you in a steady and regular 
 stream, making it easy to crush them with your creature. Defeating the enemy is also unchanged. 
 While it's possible to simply assimilate them peacefully by building a grand city that makes them 
 want to defect, the sheer size of some of these maps can make this a long and drawn out process, 
 since you'd need a huge and impressive city. So you can send your creature into the fray to defeat 
 the enemy's creature and crush the Aztec armies, while building platoons to seize and capture Aztec 
 towns. Whether you pursue a peaceful or militaristic approach, you'll find that it'll take you 
 hours to get through each map, which is probably a good thing considering there are only a handful 
 of new maps in the expansion. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghostagent
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  well, well, its here black and white 2, we all seen it coming. after all black and white was the 
 first of its class ( i feel ) mixing the good things from the classic games we love like age of 
 empires with some godly war tactics. b and w simply awesome how ever like every good game their 
 is always some little thing keeping them from game of their year for b and w it was part the game 
 play and part well two parts ( action and your pet ) . the game play was very limited, it didnt 
 give you much of a choose when to change worlds or for most the game how to build you town ( and 
 who loved them freaking fences that were set up all pretty and you'd take them to the next world 
 only to find that their best uses is building wood) you really didnt have much control however 
 in 2 you do it makes you more of a empire and a god. oh the first b & w hardly any action wheres 
 all the killing its just you pet and a bunch of Innocent villagers i mean dam. whit two you got 
 army's attacking you all the dam time. any why i give it hmmm one thumb up and four fingers :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unknown_Knight
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 27, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  As I recall you took on opposing Gods in B&W1 with belief and casting miracles at one another. 
 In the sequel the main objective was army (evil) or impressive building. Though there was no opposing 
 gods before you had magical opposition other than a wonder here and there which aren't necessarily 
 the greatest to the game where you have just as destructive if not more effective magics at your 
 alter. The idea of miracles used for belief is something I missed and wanted with this expansion 
 though the system would have to be almost completely reintroduced to us. While you thought you 
 had Eden in your hands when those Aztecs never the less joined or conquered have given rise to 
 a new god. This God seems very intimidating at first yet along the way you'll notice he sits around 
 his cities and throws rocks and magic at you only occasionally, his creature is not much to fear, 
 all you need is a very strong creature and back it up with armies, mostly archers and swordsmen 
 to take out armies fallowing the other creature. Good or Evil you'll find the new lands much like 
 the others expect most towns imbedded are neutral. The new mini-games are once more non-relative 
 to story or objectives. However there is plus side to this. The story all-together is top-notch, 
 as well amazing graphics and sound compared. Don't expect the undead to be any different than other 
 armies, they die and thats it. The new miracles add a bonus to the game for those who rely on 
 them both for defense and offence. As you'll see the new buildings will help you greatly on the 
 battle field and save mana from heal miracles. You have access to the turtle creature, which isn't 
 all too impressive unless you want to reenact the cover scene. You'll find the lands impressive 
 with a drop of eeriness to hint the undead god. I can say this expansion has great value and game 
 play, and with it comes my hope for a sequel, but with return of the miracle and belief system 
 and more tribes. Oh and for those who never played B&W2 or didn't finish it, you'll be able to 
 jump into Battle of the Gods and bootstrapped for battle with a creature, tribute and buildings. 
 But I highly recommend playing up to the second Japanese land before taking on Battle of the Gods. 
 Good luck, see you come B&W3. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
