-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Black & White: Creature Isle
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/blackwhitecreatureisle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 22, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 6.9, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 697 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Lionhead Studios
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Jan 21, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Creature Isle will certainly appeal to anyone who enjoyed Black & White in the first place. Surprisingly, 
 though, it's also suitable for some of those who didn't. 

 If nothing else, Black &amp; White is one of the most intriguing, most talked about games of last 
 year. Designer Peter Molyneux's first project with his team at Lionhead Studios was very highly 
 anticipated and met with extremely positive reactions from the press, although Black &amp; White's 
 reception by gaming audiences wasn't nearly so unanimous. In fact, seemingly just as many players 
 were put off by Black &amp; White's bizarre combination of elements and awkwardly paced strategic 
 game as those who were truly impressed by the game's distinctive theme and artificial intelligence. 
 At any rate, the game sold well, and it certainly seemed open-ended -- so Lionhead's decision to 
 follow suit with an official expansion pack was no great surprise.           A giant baby chicken 
 called Tyke will become your creature's apprentice.    

  Don't expect a cut-and-dried level pack from Creature Isle. Black &amp; White was a creative, unusual 
 game, and Creature Isle is no exception. The expansion focuses on what are probably the best aspects 
 of the original Black &amp; White -- its gigantic, artificially intelligent anthropomorphic creatures 
 and its realistic, open-ended gameworld. And while Creature Isle shares some of the frustrating 
 elements of its forebear, it does manage to extend Black &amp; White in interesting, new directions -- directions 
 that, in hindsight, perhaps Black &amp; White should have taken to begin with.   

  Black &amp; White often centered on a strategic game in which you, as a god, had to battle against 
 other rival gods by vying for the belief of the world's mortal inhabitants. This strategic game 
 had some problems -- a great deal of micromanagement was necessary to maintain human villages, and 
 when a village was in contention between two or more gods, the situation could often devolve into 
 a seemingly fruitless tug-of-war for the villagers' belief. Beyond all that, the core of the strategic 
 game was fairly typical of what you'd find in other real-time strategy games and thus not nearly 
 as interesting as some of Black &amp; White's more original elements. The good news is that Creature 
 Isle practically omits the strategy elements from the formula. It at least omits the possibility 
 of being defeated by rival gods, as the archipelago where the expansion pack takes place is a land 
 devoid of gods other than the one represented by you, the player. So for better or worse, there's 
 no sense of urgency to Creature Isle. You can explore the land at your leisure.   

  Your giant creature from Black &amp; White of course accompanies you to Creature Isle. Once you 
 arrive in the new land, you learn that it is home to other gigantic creatures like yours, which 
 have formed what they call the Brotherhood. Part of the promise of becoming a member of the Brotherhood 
 lies in the opportunity for your creature to meet a creature named Eve -- apparently the one and 
 only female creature around. If your creature can win Eve's affections, then the two of them can 
 mate. Basically, as Black &amp; White was a coming-of-age story about your creature, Creature Isle 
 is the story of your creature's adulthood and parenthood.   

  Well, maybe that's giving it too much credit. Creature Isle is basically an excuse to show off 
 some impressive, new AI tricks and to let you engage in a diverse series of minigames. All of these 
 minigames are presented in the context of the story and in the context of the rest of the game 
 with Black &amp; White's powerful 3D engine and realistic physics. The idea is -- before your creature 
 can join the Brotherhood -- that it must complete a series of trials throughout the land, presented 
 by each of the Brotherhood's members. All told, there are about 20 different trials, and while 
 you usually have access to several of these at once, eventually you'll need to complete them all. 
           You'll need to complete various trials, like beating this monkey at marbles.    

  Some of the trials take the form of competitive games, such as a bowling match against a smart-alecky 
 cow, a game of marbles vs. a kindly monkey, and soccer with a mandrill and his brothers. You'll 
 also play hide-and-seek with a wolf, race against a crafty tortoise, sneak to the rescue of a bear 
 being held by a wily monk, herd a giant sheep's normal-sized sheep, and much more. One of these 
 events, involving a giant zebra, a mule-headed man, and a giant ballista, is especially funny. 
 There's a lot of variety, to say the least, and you'll be eager to complete each trial just to 
 see what's next.   

  Admittedly, you'll also be eager to complete each trial just to get some of them over with. While 
 all the trials are different and thus demonstrative of just how flexible and powerful Black &amp; 
 White's engine is, not all the trials are entirely fun. For example, gardening might be a rewarding 
 activity for some in real life, but watering plants once daily isn't all that fun in a game. Besides 
 that, many of the trials must be completed directly by your creature, which you must maneuver around 
 by leashing it and clicking where you want it to go. But getting your creature to do your bidding 
 isn't always simple and can be frustrating during timed events, of which there are several. Black 
 &amp; White's interface remains almost completely invisible -- you must manipulate the camera and 
 perform most actions using only the mouse -- and so guiding your creature through some of these trials 
 can be a trial in itself. Also, while you can attempt a trial as many times as you wish, you'll 
 quickly wish that you could at least skip the cutscenes at the beginning and end of each trial. 
    

 The trials are reminiscent of the silver scroll challenges from Black &amp; White -- the minigames 
 found throughout the original game's lands. The trials here are generally more complex, and since 
 they're hosted by giant animals like yours, if nothing else, they're more interesting to look at. 
           There are several new creatures, including a rhino.    

  Trials may be the brunt of Creature Isle's content, but they're not all of it. Early on, you'll 
 have the opportunity to rescue an egg and help it hatch -- and it hatches into a giant chick called 
 Tyke. Tyke is actually quite small compared with your creature, though he stands many times taller 
 than a human. He's just a baby much like your creature was at the beginning of Black &amp; White. 
 But while you trained your Black &amp; White creature through direct interaction, you can't interact 
 directly with Tyke -- he's your creature's responsibility. Yet through your indirect guidance, you'll 
 watch as Tyke learns all of your creature's skills -- he'll learn many of them faster than your creature 
 did.   

  Rearing Tyke is a fascinating process, and it'll give you back much of the same sense of wonder 
 you probably felt when you first met your creature in Black &amp; White. You'll see Tyke frequently 
 gazing up at your creature, looking for approval with what really looks like the same inquisitive 
 glance a child might give its father. Caring for your creature could be quite a burden in Black 
 &amp; White, but fortunately, looking after Tyke is a relatively painless process in Creature Isle 
 since your creature will do a lot of the work for you. And soon enough, Tyke will be doing a lot 
 of the work for your creature, helping tend to villagers or at least just tagging along. Of note, 
 both your creature and Tyke will eventually learn how to assist with constructing buildings, which 
 only humans could do (and very slowly) in Black &amp; White.   

  Giant chickens weren't present in Black &amp; White (a glaring omission!) , and they're one of several 
 new types of creatures you'll find in the expansion. You'll also meet a rhino, a gator, everyone 
 from the original game, and more. As you complete each creature's trial, that creature becomes 
 available at a central location on the isle, where you can either challenge it to a duel or switch 
 your creature's body type to that creature's body type. It's a nice, new feature for being able 
 to conveniently change to the creature of your choice or engage in Black &amp; White's funny-looking 
 one-on-one creature bouts. Some of the combat isn't optional in Creature Isle, which means you'll 
 have to train your creature to be a good fighter if you haven't already done so. Making your creature 
 heft the weight of a boulder around for a while should suitably prepare him for any brawling.  

  Many of the trials can be reattempted once you've finished them. You might not feel compelled to, 
 though. There's no variation to the objective-based trials, and the competitive trials are paced 
 too slowly to be of much fun after more than a couple of tries. That is to say, there isn't much 
 replay value in Creature Isle, and you can finish all the trials in less than 15 hours. The game's 
 skirmish mode does give you the option to play with your creature's apprentice, an option that 
 both helps reduce some of the micromanagement and also generally helps speed up Black &amp; White's 
 competitive matches. Having two creatures assisting you instead of just one noticeably changes 
 the dynamic of Black &amp; White's core gameplay.           Creature Isle offers more of Black 
 &amp; White's most interesting bits.    

  Black &amp; White came out nearly a year ago, and aside from the new creature types, Creature Isle 
 looks identical to the original game -- which means it still looks great. Despite the low-resolution 
 textures and some polygonal warping in the game, the colorful, attractive environments and lifelike 
 creatures are still a real pleasure to see. Like the graphics, Creature Isle's minimal soundtrack 
 is mostly identical to that of Black &amp; White, though you'll hear a few new tracks during cinematic 
 cutscenes. All the speech in Creature Isle is new, though, including the voices for all the many 
 creatures and other characters you'll meet. Despite the variety, not all the exaggerated accents 
 you'll hear actually sound very good.   

  Creature Isle will certainly appeal to anyone who enjoyed Black &amp; White in the first place. 
 Surprisingly, though, it's also suitable for some of those who didn't. That is, if you enjoyed 
 Black &amp; White's gigantic creatures and its basic premise but didn't care much for the strategic 
 elements that dominated much of the game, then you'll still more than likely enjoy Creature Isle. 
 The minigames that comprise most of this expansion are like simple parlor games and aren't nearly 
 as lofty as the concepts in the original Black &amp; White. Still, between all the minigames and 
 the inspired addition of a younger creature for your own creature to look after, you'll find that 
 Creature Isle is a great place to visit.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dvbd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 11:56 am PT
Review:  The game is a child's game that will bring joy to many people.
  it has a good story on the continued adventures of you as a god, it isn't more harder, it is somtimes 
 a little annoying to do all the missions but not enough to make you stop playing.
  you get to an island by the sailor's who you helpt it the first game. and you discover that there 
 are many creatures that have maid a group that they call the brotherhood. to be exepted in the 
 brothehood you must defeat everyones trail. as you do the trails, you get new spells, learn new 
 things, and iven become a father of a small creature.
  you will find out that there is a female creatue that wants to mate and she has her eyes on you (lucky 
 bastard) .
  so you do all you'r challenges and when you finish... you get her.
  wants you get her you will have a child from her and you will be able to rais him like the other 
 one you have. but basically thats the end of the game.
  
  if you want a childish game that is funny and isn't to long... this is the one.
  enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemyth
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 17, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Ah Black &amp; White, I have surprisingly little to say bad about the game and a rather large portion 
 of good things to say. The same holds true to the expansion. The prospect of gaining a little tyke 
 based off of you creature and teaching your creature how to be a good parent is certainly entertaining. 
 Not to mention the plethora of new games to play and quests to solve. I actually only wish the 
 expansion was a little longer. I think I was able to finish everything within a week's playing 
 time and that was me playing very sporadicly. The graphics, sound, and gameplay mechanics all remained 
 pretty much the same (which you should expect from an expansion) while the game itself is... well... 
 expanded with more content. New structures, new games, new quests, all of which are great fun to 
 play. Overall I recommend the expansion for both fun and playability as well as simply rounding 
 out the series (if you liked Black &amp; White in the first place that is) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkaddict1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  After plowing through Black &amp; White I was hungry for more. The expansion of Creature Isle promised 
 new depth with my creature, adding hours of gameplay. Unfortunately, I may have hyped it a bit 
 too much in my haste for more gaming.
  
  After all, how much deeper could Lion Head Studios go with Black &amp; White without completely 
 altering the game. And in fact, they do a decent job of changing the feel of the game, so it seems 
 like many more hours for a low price. There are many new characters, all of which have humorous, 
 or at least believable problems, and the voice acting is still excellent. The charming visuals 
 remain intact, thank goodness, and still run well on a low-end rig.
  
  Some of the new gameplay fails to suck me in, though. Your Creature's pet seems like a great idea, 
 until you realize that the lack of control will drive you sticking a screw into each eye. If your 
 Creature is dumb, your Creature's pet is even dumber.
  
  The missions are fun, but a few suffer from poor control and will drive you to take out the screws 
 from your eyes and repeatedly jam them in and out.
  
  Other than the annoying issues, the game remains the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamauldi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  This expansion to Black & White isn't bad if players want to take their creatures into a new world 
 of challenges without being bothered by other enemy gods. 
  
  In my experience for playing Creature Isle, some of the challenges aren't too bad like the tortoise's 
 race or the gorilla's wrecking challenge but there are some others I found hard or just frustrating 
 like the rhino's duel or the cow's bowling spree. For Mercurio's challenge, it's a little too easy 
 compared to Naxo's so it's considered a joke.
  
  I do like the fact they added two new creatures to the expansion. I think the chicken creature 
 is very cute and I adore its clucking noises. Something I would like to tuck in at night. For the 
 crocodile, it's very odd in an amusing way. I find it strange for the croc to pretend he's playing 
 a guitar to impress my villagers sometimes but he is a cool creature to own since it's cool to 
 keep a crocodile.
  
  May the source be with you. Well... that's what Naxo always says. However, when my creature achieves 
 the Power Gauntlet after dueling all the creatures within the guru ring, where in the world of 
 Eden is this so-called 'source'? There has been at least one time my creature almost attempted 
 an invisible force on his enemies in a duel afterwards but it hasn't really worked. They should've 
 had it to where the Power Gauntlet either doesn't exist at all or it works perfectly. This is my 
 greatest pet peeve for Creature Isle but pardon my french. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadLemming5
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  Absolutely amazing the ultimate goal of the game is to see two creatures doing it 
  i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrenton
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 31, 2005 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong i liked black and white, alot. I loved black and white, but this is not black 
 and white. This is a stupid collection of minigames. So know that i came into this game excited. 
 I gave it a fair chance and it let me down completly. Cretures isles plot revolves around an island 
 where there are no gods, just creatures. Then you show up, and for some reason need to prove your 
 creatue can join their sect. Well on this island they have to complete a seris of tasks to join. 
 thats where they lost me. The minigames are completely pointless. One has you bowling with an alligator, 
 another has you taking care of a zebras crops while he is away, and another has you trying to hatch 
 an egg. Either way its not relivant to becoming a better god, and the tasks are really boring. 
 Unless black and white comes in a compilation pack with this one (the blackandwhite/cretureisles 
 pack is the same price as black and white as itsself) dont think about even trying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 5.4
Date: Dec 19, 2004 9:23 am PT
Review:  Ok so the graphics looked good and it was cool in the beginning when I was learning to play BUT 
 and isn't it allways BUT.
  
  Ok same day different Creatures and More of them.
  
  The learning curve is not just using the game controlls but it is teaching your creature too, besides 
 trying to figure out the puzzels left for you to solve.
  
  Now then if you are into MICRO management then you will love this game BUT I thought when you trained 
 your Creature it would take care of your villagers while you were off impressing your enemys villagers. 
 It was amazing how quickly you as a Deity turned Evil. If you were not constantly watching your 
 village it grew so big it starved and your creature must have liked watching sex because all it 
 did was make breeders. I did get the creature which I picked the Monkey for my creature. Anyway 
 I could get the monkey to water the farms and forest while I watched it but as soon as I went away 
 it picked up eating the villagers or some other bad habbit.
  Honestly I played and played this game and tried to like it in fact I bought because I thought 
 I liked it. I guess it was I liked the idea I was being fed by the advertisements for this game. 
 OH well maybe MOM and DAD made a mistake with this child by thinking I was learning something from 
 them. truth in advertisement" andBuyer beware "
  
  Sory folks I tried with this one and I didn't learn because I went and got creature Island thinking 
 it would be better. I am sure there are big fans of this game out there but not me.
  
  Yes I copied my remarks from my other review to this to prove a point . It is the same thing but 
 more of it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
