-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blade Runner
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/bladerunner/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  3, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.7, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 669 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Westwood Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Adventure
Date:     Oct 31, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Blade Runner is an interesting mood piece, but somewhere along the production line, someone forgot 
 to include a game. 

 Westwood Studios has been extremely vocal about how its adaptation of Ridley Scott's Blade Runner 
 would revolutionize the adventure genre. Touting it as "the first real-time adventure game" and 
 promising a "constantly changing plot," the designers have made numerous claims about how the game's 
 characters and story would be unpredictable, creating an entirely new experience. Unfortunately, 
 almost none of the claims are true. Blade Runner is an interesting mood piece, built upon some 
 very detailed graphic work and an interesting premise - but somewhere along the production line, 
 someone forgot to include a game.  

 The events of Blade Runner, the game, take place in November 2019, precisely the time of Blade Runner, 
 the film. The storyline itself is strikingly similar: You assume the role of Ray McCoy, a Blade 
 Runner who hunts down a scourge of replicants hiding out in Los Angeles. The leader of this gang 
 is a philosophical, brooding sort named Clovis who wants to find a way to extend his factory-provided 
 four-year life span and sulks around, pointlessly quoting William Blake and steadfastly protecting 
 his "family," a motley assortment of other replicants. One of Blade Runner's "constantly changing 
 plot" elements is that, with repeated playings, different characters will be replicants. And McCoy 
 may or may not be a replicant himself (a plot element that was subtly hinted at in Scott's film) , 
 and every character seems to say "What about you, McCoy?" at some point or another.   

 The story itself is relatively static, though the course of events is slightly altered by the choices 
 you make throughout. Most of the major events will take place no matter how you play, though the 
 ending and the last few scenes of the game will be different (there are over a dozen different 
 endings, but they are slight variations on three major themes) . The designers have chosen a strange 
 way to affect the plot - your behavior in the game actually affects your fate. Sympathize with 
 the replicants, and you will turn out to be one. Kill 'em all, and you'll find commendations from 
 your superiors at the end (a strange sort of anti-Calvinist fatalism that can send the mind reeling 
 if pondered too long) . The strange thing about Blade Runner is that there's no real way to lose, 
 just as long as you finish the game. Although it's an interesting structure, it has its inherent 
 problems. To justify the number of wildly different endings, the designers have tried to keep some 
 elements of the story very vague for the bulk of the story. But even with these safeguards, there 
 are always a number of confusing contradictions and loose ends no matter how the story winds up. 
   

 Despite the claims to the contrary, Blade Runner does not take place in real time (and even if it 
 did, it wouldn't be the first - Broderbund's The Last Express came before it and actually lived 
 up to the claim) . The passage of time has no impact on the game; as in most adventure games, all 
 events are triggered by key actions. If there's a bomb in a lab, detonation isn't an issue until 
 you actually enter the room. If a character tells you to meet him somewhere in the game, he will 
 immediately be at the agreed upon location and won't leave until you get there. The only actions 
 that don't follow this trend are some random character locations, which aren't even really random. 
 Some characters are either in one location or they aren't anywhere at all. Simply walking offscreen 
 and returning a few times is all it takes to make them appear.  

 Technically the game is a mixed bag, combining well-rendered backgrounds with incredibly pixelated 
 sprite-based characters. The ambient music fits comfortably with the moody environments, while 
 the voice acting ranges from competent to downright uncomfortable (and the characters have a strange 
 habit of repeating awkward gestures over and over again at inappropriate times) .   

 Perhaps Blade Runner's biggest flaw, though, is its most glaring: It's simply not much of a game. 
 There are only a few honest-to-goodness puzzles, and not very interesting ones at that. You get 
 to assemble all sorts of clues and information, but, because of the automated nature of the game, 
 it never comes into play. There's no real interface, just a cursor that indicates possible movement 
 paths and changes color when you can interact with an object or character. Simply clicking on everything 
 will take you from the opening scene to the end, with only one or two possible stumbling blocks 
 along the way. The most interesting aspect of the gameplay is that you can use the tools of the 
 Blade Runner trade - the Voigt-Kampff test ("you see a tortoise...") to interrogate suspected replicants 
 and the Esper device to enhance photographic images. And while this could have led to an interesting 
 "work is fun" structure, a la Spycraft, these elements aren't utilized enough. Finally, the game 
 is only a few hours in length. The first run through the game's four CDs won't take even the most 
 inept gamer more than a dozen hours, and subsequent plays will last less than a quarter of that. 

 The designers have managed to invoke the mood of the film, re-creating a neon-lit Los Angeles constantly 
 bombarded by rain. The perennial Blade Runner images are here, including the winking woman in the 
 Coca-Cola billboard and vehicles flying over the flaming smokestacks of the industrial outskirts. 
 Unfortunately, most of what's interesting about the game is exactly what was interesting about 
 the film, and not much was done to extend the concepts or explore them any further. Fans of the 
 film will undoubtedly overlook the game's flaws and enjoy living the life of the Blade Runner, 
 even if it only lasts a few hours. But those who are awaiting the next generation of adventure 
 games are advised to keep waiting.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  The year is 2019, the place is LA but not "the" LA, but one where everything is gloomy and dirty, 
 the sky pitch black and where it's always raining. This blackened metropolis spawns many anachronisms, 
 a dark future built on a broad mesh of past imagery, boasting classical architecture styles and 
 modern technologies. Old and worn-down skyscrapers that date back to the early 1900's are filled 
 with gigantic ad-screens, bursting noisy commercials. In the belly of the immense towers, a strange 
 Chinatown-like underworld has formed, with oriental restaurants and night clubs announcing its 
 promise of entertainment in glowing neon lights, dark alleys and run-down warehouses surrounding. 
 Up, in the night sky, flying cars travel feverishly, passing by blimps that announce a perfect 
 life in the outer Colonies. In the center of town lie two gigantic metal pyramids, surrounded by 
 hundreds of factories with fiery chimneys, the culmination of Man's technology and industry - the 
 home of the Tyrell Company. This is where it all began. The soft Vangelis overture establishing 
 the melancholic depression Mankind has immersed itself in, the eyes of a tired detective reflecting 
 the fiery pits of hell, the sound of rain pouring down on the windshield, a flying car vanishes 
 in the horizon - "Blade Runner".
  
  It's difficult to take a movie masterpiece and make it into a game hell, it's difficult taking 
 any movie and making into a game, so I guess I was a bit zealous when addressing "Blade Runner", 
 the videogame. Yet, after playing it, my fears revealed unfounded: it's probably the best movie 
 adaptation I've ever played. The game casts you as Detective Mccoy, a Blade Runner in everything 
 similar to captain Deckard: the same coat, gloomy stare and sharp-wit all noir detectives share. 
 Also like Deckard, he's commissioned a new case which will eventually lead him on the trail of 
 a group of Replicants bent on enhancing their life-span.
  
  The plot, which unfolds side by side with the movie's, borrows heavily from the it, focusing on 
 the same moral dilemmas concerning life and death, creation and identity. Who is Det. Mccoy, a 
 replicant or a human? Should Tyrell Company, and above all, Man, be allowed to play God, by deciding 
 the life and death of the replicants? The questions build up as the narrative unfolds, as the player 
 uncovers small pieces of a graphic-adventure puzzle: collecting evidence while investigating murder 
 scenes, analyzing photos (just like in the movie) and talking to possible witnesses. Anyone who 
 has ever played a classic "point and click" will feel right at home, except for one thing: the 
 dynamic narrative. "Blade Runner" attempts at creating an interactive narrative, with each choice 
 altering the events that follow, and not just the endings, as is common. Sadly, each choice is 
 hidden and obscure to the player, thus destroying the designers' intentions at achieving a good 
 interactive model - if the player doesn't know when or what he is choosing, then he will never 
 know what to make of the said choices. I mean, how can you know that a specific line of dialogue 
 will transform a certain human character into a replicant? How can you know that you can holster 
 a weapon in a specific place to save a replicant's life? It just seems silly and random unless 
 you plan on repeating every little scene time and time again to find out different outcomes. The 
 fact that there is no good FAQ out there is proof alone of some poorly thought design choices. 
 This applies to other aspects of the interface as well: puzzles feature clues that are extremely 
 hard to find, the player has to guess many of the clues' meanings, dialogue lines provide impossible 
 to predict results, and you're never fully aware of all the possibilities each scene poses for 
 you as a player. How on earth a player is supposed to navigate through a game with such an impregnable 
 interface beats me. At least the writing is well done, capturing perfectly the dialectics featured 
 in the original movie.
  
  The sights and sounds of the movie have also been translated meticulously, allowing the game to 
 feed on its atmosphere almost perfectly, with high quality FMVs posing as background for the action, 
 characters featuring fully fledged voice acting and Vangelis' scores serving as soundtrack. Unfortunately, 
 some environments, locations, characters and music had to be created from scratch, and while most 
 stay true to the movie's spirit, the artists quality is clearly under par, going as far as adding 
 some annoying overly kitsch elements to the otherwise serious nocturne landscape.
  
  It's hard not to see "Blade Runner" as a missed opportunity, for it derives all of the good aspects 
 of the movie it's based on, the problem is just that when it comes to its interactive elements 
 it feels flat, annoying and hard to understand, a testament to all of the reasons why the classic 
 Adventure genre died out. But if you can cope with those elements, and are really found of "Blade 
 Runner", than you will probably be highly rewarded for the experience, even if only to wander the 
 streets of that dark brooding LA once again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrayneDrayne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  Adventure games are usually (barring a brief stint with Guybrush Threepwood) something I avoid 
 like the plague. Tedious clicking of arbitrary objects, endless puzzles that are so ludicrously 
 obtuse as to have nothing to do with the end result , and hours of pained, dreadful voice acting 
 choking out a story with all the grace and self-deprecating wit of a thirteen-year old fat girl's 
 goth poetry.
  
  When judged by these standards, Blade Runner can be nothing but sub-par. Important objects are 
 easy to spot, placed in areas that make sense, and often, are not completely integral to the advancement 
 of the plot, the majority of the puzzles are entirely logical and can be worked out using half 
 a brain applied in a sensible way and the story and voice acting, while not universally stellar, 
 help to immerse you in an engrossing, if slightly odd, world.
  
  Judged without the preconceptions of more "Usual" adventure games, Blade Runner is a near-flawless 
 example of what the genre should have been.
  
  Playing in 2008, the graphics can often leave a little to be desired, especially the character 
 models, whose terrible pixelation and unnatural, over-exaggerated animations can be more than a 
 little jarring. However, the failings of the actors are more than made up for by the beauty of 
 the stage on which they perform. The pre-rendered backdrops are still nothing short of absolutely 
 stunning, and area transitions are blessed with recreated segments of the cinematography that made 
 the Blade Runner film so famous.
  
  The relationship the game has with the Blade Runner film is unusual. Featuring many of the same 
 characters, locations and events, one could either imagine that the game is an alternate version 
 of the reality of the movie, or, dependent on the ending, an experimental retreading of the movie's 
 events by the fictional world (or vice-versa) . Although one could spent a week bending their mind 
 around the philosophical questions and connections thrown up by the relationship between game and 
 film, I'll just say this; If you have already seen Blade Runner, you will be treading some fairly 
 similar ground.
  
  In terms of difficulty, Blade Runner is definitely one of the easier adventure games, aiding it 
 in terms of flow, and giving it more of a feeling of being an interactive movie, instead of a series 
 of rage-inducingly frustrating hurdles. The downside of this is that an experienced adventure player 
 will be able to breeze through this in a relatively short period of time (once they have dealt 
 with the initial brain-rewiring use of logic in the game design) .
  
  Although most of the game will be forensic and investigational point-and-click work, you are treated 
 to stints of gunplay as well as being given access to Blade runner equipment; spinners, Voight-Kamph 
 testing kits, the ESPER machine and the database are all available for use and provide some of 
 the most enjoyable moments of the game. Voight-Kamph tests vary between the disturbing and the 
 hilarious depending on the subject and the questions being asked and the ESPER can be used to do 
 coll, if undoubtedly silly, things like look round corners in any pictures you might obtain for 
 clues.
  
  The sound borrows heavily from the movie, and again, is utterly sublime. Vangelis' soundtrack is 
 pure scifi and seems to fit the game even better than the film. Other sound effects are a little 
 slim on the ground, but this helps to keep things atmospheric. The voice acting, while of variable 
 quality, manages to fit well, as much of the important dialogue is voiced by actors and actresses 
 from the film itself. Added to this, the less good actors often have fairly lighthearted lines, 
 and their lack of skill suits this well (if you are wondering what I mean, wait until the Arabic 
 snake merchant berates you about "That disreputable Bob fellow") .
  
  Overall, I simply cannot sing the praises of this game highly enough. From start to finish it is 
 beautiful, spectacular and entertaining, and should take pride of place in any serious gamer's 
 collection as, not only the best movie tie-in ever produced, but as one of the greatest adventure 
 games ever committed to CD-ROM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quaid001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I'm one of the few people on earth who actually didn't like the movie so much (although I'm a total 
 sci-fi fan but the movie didn't do it for me)
  However, the game was absolutely amazing, near perfection I would say!
  There are different endings, 
 every choice you make change the game an has an impact on the story, everytime you start the game 
 anew the game changes a little bit (people who were replicants in old games can now be humans...) . 
 You can also choose if you want to aid the replicants or your police fellows or simply act as if 
 you would aid one side and betray them later. When you kill innocent people the story can also 
 change so that later in the game the police finds out about the murder and hunt you. So you have 
 a really great variety of things you can do and there is so much freedom for the player. That simply 
 is totally fun and give the game a great atmosphere (actually the atmosphere in that game is so 
 great that you almost forget about the real world completely and gives you the opportunity to dive 
 into that future world completely... that can be very dangerous because so it is possible to forget 
 about the time totally and suddenly you realize that you have played it the whole night long ;-) 
 --- and that never happenend to be me before and never did since then again) .
  Of course the game is outdated a little by now. The graphics aren't very sharp (especially the 
 main character is full of pixels) . But although the graphics are not that good for todays standard 
 that can't change the great atmosphere of the game or the fact (at least for me it ist a fact) 
 that this game just rocks and it's the only game I play over and over again because it never gets 
 borring!
  It almost makes me sad to see that this wonderful, intelligent, almost perfect game gets often 
 not that great critics it deserved. Can't really understand that. After all I can just recommend 
 that game to everybody who likes adventures and sci-fi (but even people who don't like adventures 
 and sci-fi will probably going to have great fun and a good time with blade runner (over and over 
 again) ) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonah_hex
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Not too bad given the age of the game, but don't expect too much. Music is taken directly from 
 the movie and some transition video clips are also straight from the movie. These elements effectively 
 recreate the mood of the movie. Graphics were okay for their time but appear very crude by today's 
 standards. In-game navigation is very clumsy and the game is often unforgiving -- if you forget 
 a key interview or to pick up a clue, you can spend quite a while trying to find your way back 
 to the place you left. The "puzzles" don't challenge powers of deduction as much as I would have 
 liked; instead, it seems like every object, interview, and other clue must be repeatedly reviewed 
 in succession to hopefully uncover some further plot element. Despite the game-play frustrations, 
 the Westwood game does add some creative elements to the overall story that are consistent with 
 one of my favorite books and movies. As a result, it is worth a look if you are a Blade Runner 
 fan. Good value for $5-$10, but at it's age it may be hard to find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfsebastianII
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  I can't believe that a game that i think is brilliant a full 10 years after it's release got such 
 a bad review at the time. I guess it comes down to whether you're a big BR fan or not - if you 
 are, the fact that you can be in that world, with all the architecture, weird characters etc is 
 just great, particularly when it's so well realised. It borrows heavily from the premise of the 
 film, whilst taking its own course. 
  
  Starting off with at least a good chance of taking on the replicants, the game at one point leaves 
 you so low down and desperate, you can barely stand walking around those rain-drenched streets 
 any longer, but it's all the while gripping and you want to get out the other side. to me it goes 
 a long way to catching the ethos of the film. The only thing i would say is that having played 
 it twice and had exactly the same ending, i'm not sure how you get the others, but i guess you 
 have to play it twice in succession rather than years apart like i did.
  
  And i don't know how the reviewer finished it so quickly they must have really raced through, though 
 true it's probably only a medium-length 15-20 hour game
  
  Anyway, nuff said the game is a classic and i for one would love to see either a re-release on 
 DVD or even better a new BR game that was even better!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cluttrell
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  First off, I loved the movie Blade Runner. I am a huge Harrison Ford fan. So when the opportunity 
 came up for me to acquire this game, I was pleased to grab it.
  There are 4 discs for this game, making the case look like a dime novel from the 1890's. Unfortunately 
 for fans of the movie and Ford, the main characters in the game are all new, but this can also 
 be seen as a good thing. The graphics and cinematic are good for the era, and the sights and sounds 
 really put you in a futuristic Los Angeles.
  As for the game play, the game starts out wonderfully. You go to a pet store and begin to collect 
 evidence and do interviews. The emotion interface makes for interesting interviews with the games 
 characters. Once you've collected evidence, you take it to the police station and turn it in. There 
 you can catch a little target practice and meet other runners, which is a bit silly. You can take 
 off and follow leads, going about the city. Everything is great! 
  Then, suddenly, after the second crime, you can no longer take evidence to the police station to 
 be examined. I must have played out the first several hours of the game a dozen times, hoping to 
 overcome the glitch that had possessed my computer. I could not turn in any evidence up to a point. 
 I played the game just wandering around, running into at least 4 different endings, but never really 
 achieving those endings based on clues I found, leads I followed, or anything else. In those endings 
 I kill someone, get killed, or run away with the little girl. Weird!
  For such a great game to suck me into the Blade Runner universe so deeply, only to disappoint mid-way 
 through the game by not allowing me to do the job of the cop was, to say the least, disappointing.
 
  I loved this game, and would love to see a version of it that was modern and not filled with errors. 
 Enjoy this game, and try to find all the endings you can, but don't expect to find them based on 
 your skill as a detective or as a gamer, your find them by accident.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 4, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Blade-Runner tackles most of the movie's atmosphere, promising an excellent adventure game with 
 the same immersive soundtrack as the movie.
  
  Welp, I just finished Blade Runner for the PC, and I am decently satisfied of my experience. I 
 make a big deal about this, because its possibly one of the best PC games to ever imitat a movie... and 
 its not just any movie either, its BLADE RUNNER, the #1 rated Sci-Fi of all time.
  
  You start off as a blade-runner named Ray McCoy. You don't know much about him... and you wont learn 
 too much throughout the entire game besides he obviously likes to drink, has a dog named Maggie.... 
 He pretty is the Deckard from the film. You interact with some charactors from the movie, which 
 I thought was neat. Replicants are different.
  
  You don't really have any sidekicks... you are on your own.
  
  This is a REAL TIME RPG, which 
 means lots of things can go either way.
  
  It was fun using the Esper Device to enchance photos. I got to use it plenty of times. It was very 
 easy and enjoyable to use. The creaters got this down on the mark! However, the Vought Kompf test 
 was lacking due to the fact I only got to use it once, and it decided my subject was human. Luckily 
 I saved before the test... and I tried it 6 times... and the test still tested the subject as a human.. even 
 though you get a better ending if you find the subject as a replicant . Device was too difficult 
 for me to use.
  
  There is no real layed out gameplan. Much of the gameplay consists of walking from place to place, 
 and back from place to place. There's clues everywhere, but no specific clues. Gameplay was very 
 easy by the way.
  
  Gameplay was great. It was real simple. Not too much hotkeys, most of everything you is with the 
 mouse only.
  
  On of the best things about this game was the photos and scenery. They captured everything from 
 the movie EXACTLY. I had to watch the movie again (for the 6th time) after this game, and everything 
 was spot on... almost inch for inch. I really felt like I was in the movie playing the game.
  
  The music however was slightly lacking. They included Vangelis's Blade Runner Blues , and thats 
 the only theme I heard besides walking down the marketstreet where I heard Vangelis Egyptian Theme 
 which was cool. The only time you hear the (possbily, the most important theme) Blade Runner Blues 
 theme is when you walk outside on your patio at your apartment. Thats basically it besides the 
 intro. There really is no music during gameplay. Much of it is silent.. The ambient sounds were 
 great... the rainfall, people talking, etc. Vangelis music REALLY sets the Blade Runner Mood, and 
 I was unsatisfied of this.
  
  Difficulty is pretty easy. I didn't have much trouble with anything. Only thing that requires training 
 is using your firearm. You have to aim carefully, and shot your opponent many times before he drops.
 
  
  I didn't kill any Replicants during my entire 12 hours of gameplay. I saw them, and let them die 
 on their own, but I never killed any, because mainly, I didn't have the chance! I killed 2 people, 
 the entire game... and they were criminal suspects (not reps) . So I really missed out on that experience.
 
  
  Game did not seem buggy at all. My only beef, is I was unable to use the shooting range during 
 my entire gamplay, because the targets would fail to come out... so I was unsure about this.
  
  I rated this game an overall 85%, which signifies to a Good game.. and a must for a Blade Runner 
 Fan. Adventure fans will like it, and overlook some of its flaws.
  
  Pros:
  
  *Scenery was Perfect. Couldn't be better.
  
  *Simplicity of the game made it enjoyable.
  
 
  *Voice Acting was good
  
  *Lots of different options, subjects, and objects to interact with.
  
  *Imitated Movie Charactors 
 very well. Esper device was fun
  
  Cons:
  
  *Lacking Vangelis music.
  
  *Dont get much Voight Komp test or Replicant Experience
  
  *Not very objective on what to do 
 next or what you've done 
  
  *Somewhat short... my time was just shy of 12 hours.... and I didn't read or use any faqs... I wasted 
 lots of time too running back and forth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaidevia
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the first point and click adventures i ever played on the pc and is largely responsible 
 for making me fall in love with the genre. There are many possible endings depending on the choices 
 you make as the main character, and whilst it is somewhat removed from the plot of the movie upon 
 which it is based, it is connected enough to make it a thoroughly entertaining journey through 
 the world of the blade runner movies, flying billboards and all. The characters are full and varied 
 and the storyline is very involving. this game has been seriously under rated on this site which 
 is a shame, i recommend anyone to give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barracuda666
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 17, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  Bladerunner has to go down as one of my favourite games of all time. Sure the graphics are a bit 
 lame by todays standards and some of the game play elements are a bit hit and miss, but I have 
 never played a game that captures the atmosphere of a movie it's based on as well as this title.
 
  
  Bladerunner was one of the first titles I purchased after becoming a PC gamer due to my love of 
 the movie and it really blew me away. Everything is there from the movie, the Voigt Kampf (SP) 
 system, the gun combat, the empathy you feel for the main character, etc. The game world is spot 
 on with gritty back drops and many locations and characters from the actual film are included.
 
  
  No game ever plays the same. You can complete the game once, then the next time you play you could 
 meet completely new characters, be presented with new choices and scenarios and get a complete 
 reverse of the ending you got the first time round.
  
  If you like the film or even graphic adventures in general then you should love this. How Gamespot 
 managed to give it 6.0 is beyond me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moti_Biran
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 4, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  WOW! This game is the most disappointing game I have ever played. Let's set aside my great fondness 
 for the film that this game bears its name  Blade Runner by Ridley Scott, this game is BAD!
  The story is boring, to say the least, so boring in fact that you dont want to play this game 
 again even tough you can have multiple endings. I only played it once, and that was enough, enough 
 and easy as taking candy from a teddy bear!
  The graphics are hideous, the backgrounds are o. k., but the 3D models are pixilated like an 8bit 
 Mario! I remember that magazines wrote about the innovation of this graphic system, it was called 
 Voxels Plus it was supposed to deliver 3D engine without the aid of a 3D card  Hideous I tell 
 you HIDEOUS!
  STAY AWAY from this game. If someone offers you this game as a gift, free of charge or as an added 
 bonus when buying another game, just say NO, turn around and RUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccooke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Blade Runner has to be one of my most favourite films of all time. When it first came out, the 
 special effects were astounding. Now fourteen years later we finaly have a video game to allow 
 us to enter the world in which Deckard hunted the deadly replicants. And I have to say they did 
 a damn good job.
  
  You take the role of Ray Mcoy a rookie Blade Runner (a futuristic Police Officer for those who 
 havent seen the film) who has just been assinged to a vicious case of animal murder. In the year 
 2019, real animals are very rare, so humans would not even think of killing them. Replicants are 
 immediately suspected and must be investigated.
  
  Anyone who has played point and click adventure games will be right at home here. You spend alot 
 of your time doing CSI like detective work by searching crime scenes for clues and evidence. You 
 can also question various people you come across to obtain information. It can take a while before 
 you actually find a good lead so you've got to have a little patience, but this is no 80's Sierra 
 Quest game, so don't worry about it. Ther is also firearms combat which is a very good thing since 
 Deckard certainly shot people in the film and combat is rarely seen in adventure games. All around 
 the gameplay mixes action and adventure elements quite well.
  
  For 97, the graphics are definately not half bad. Each area is nice and seedy and full of gritty 
 detail just as it should. little details like headlights in the backround or other Police spinners 
 swiftly gliding through the poluted sky, all against the skyline of future LA. The cutscenes are 
 also well rendered.
  
  There are lots of good quality voices to be heard, as well as ambient sound effects that include 
 moving vehicals to gunshots and all the other sounds of the city. Blade Runner is a very well crafted 
 package that immerses you into its world by creating a living, breathing LA with the use of lights 
 and sounds to create the perfect backdrop for the mystery and grit you will face in the deadly 
 backstreets of future Las Angeles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kap_thirteen
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 27, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This was a great game for its time. Dare I say it it was even better than the film. 13 different 
 endings based on how you played the game, it was great. They don't make them like this anymore. 
 Developers don't have half the talent anymore. The people that make this game were very talented. 
 Please more games like this. Improve on player interation with the story, make games like that. 
 Blades runner had amazing sound, and the gameplay was very fresh. Please everyone, play this game. 
 This is gaming history. I do not think a game like this will come around again, i sure as hell 
 have given up hope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: play284
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game i had ever played, beyond any doubt!
  This is the best game i had ever played, beyond any doubt!
  This is the best game i had ever 
 played, beyond any doubt!
  This is the best game i had ever played, beyond any doubt!
  This is the best game i had ever played, beyond any doubt!
  This is the best game i had ever 
 played, beyond any doubt!
  This is the best game i had ever played, beyond any doubt!
  This is the best game i had ever played, beyond any doubt!
  This is the best game i had ever 
 played, beyond any doubt!
  This is the best game i had ever played, beyond any doubt!
  This is the best game i had ever played, beyond any doubt!
  This is the best game i had ever 
 played, beyond any doubt!
  This is the best game i had ever played, beyond any doubt!
  This is the best game i had ever played, beyond any doubt!
  This is the best game i had ever 
 played, beyond any doubt!
  This is the best game i had ever played, beyond any doubt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooperTeam
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 25, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Once again, Game Spot seems to not understand what adventure games are suppose to be like. Advenure 
 games ARE games in a sense that you re playing a story book adventure. Blade Runner follows in 
 this tradition and made this game well. Back when it first came out, anyone who was into Blade 
 Runner loved this game. But, everyone is entitled to their opinions.
  
  GRAPHICS
  =========
  Graphics were very well put together and some areas of the game, give a very eerie 
 mood to the feeling of where you are versus what's going on. Like at the start of the game where 
 you are near the pet shop owner, it animates the police lights as if the lights flashed in all 
 directions like real lights do. They put the right elements of Adventure and Action into this game.
 
  
  CONTROL
  =========
  Controls are pretty easy to figure out, just about every aspect oft he game is controlled with 
 the mouse, not much rocket science to this game. Just point and click. This is how an adventure 
 game should be. Plus, the action sequences they put in this game work well with the way the game 
 itself is and on how you control your shooting with the mouse.
  
  OVERALL
  ========
  If you love cyber-punk stories and you loved the movie, you will love this game. Westwood Studios 
 knew what they were doing when this game was being developed and they did a great job at making 
 an adventure game this is great for adventurers and people who like to play Story or Comic style 
 games such as Blade Runner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 4, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  Usually i dont trust many games which are based off movies since they seem to be made for profit.
 
  
  However Blade Runner was different.
  
  First and foremost the movie is possibly my favourite Sci-Fi movie of all time, its the atmopshere/music 
 and sometimes surrealism of it which makes it a favourite movie for me.
  
  I have also read the book by Phillip K. Dick of which the movie is loosely based off.
  
  The 
 movie was based LOOSELY off the book, and the game is based LOOSELY off the game. So you would 
 think maybe the story along the way has gotten watered down along the way from all these conversions.
 
  
  Thing is the game makes it its own entirely, it has referances you'll find simular to both the 
 book and especially the movie. It also seems to capture the movie's atmosphere almost down to every 
 detail!
  
  I was pretty astounded more so by how much the game was just like being in the actual movie. If 
 this game had been released today and created on stronger graphical engines, i'm sure this game 
 would come out pretty much out on top for its good use of camera angles, enviromental atmosphere (which 
 is increadible) and amazing soundtrack from Vangelis.
  
  Down points are that you could argue gameplay wise its pretty linear and you dont feel an exact 
 control of your charcter's movements when it comes to combat, but since this game is more of an 
 movie, your not supposed to run about shooting people randomly anyhow.
  
  All-in-all if your a fan of the Blade Runner series, you'll love this game since it captures all 
 the best moments of the movie and book whilst telling an alternative storyline. 
  
  However if your a gamer which is looking for more combat aspects to this game, then i think you'll 
 fail to see the movie aspect of this game and therefore will tire of it fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aweus
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 8, 2005 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Now it is a fact Blade Runner movie is somehow considered to be genre's masterpiece. All Westwood 
 could've done was to relocate the feeling to the game. And they did it! The vision of future presented 
 by Ridley Scott contains some indescribable magic which pulls us to immerse into this universe. 
 It's really quite similar to Star Wars games when you really need to try hard to ruin the potential 
 behind great license. And Westwood not only didn't done that but also created a quite nice game 
 on it's own. Few different endings decided by your course of action as well as quite big freedom 
 for a adventure game which gives us a bit of opportunity to try and experiment thus playing the 
 game more than one time. The graphic and sound are also superb when we consider time when this 
 game was released. All of this makes Blade Runner one of the best adventure games of 90. Some may 
 argue this can't be compared to early creations of Lucasarts and so on, but BR is an unique game 
 on it's own and certainly worth a try if you like spending your time with true adventure games. 
 Plus if you enjoyed original movie with Harrison Ford this one is a must-have for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrialRevluc
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 9, 2005 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Let the curtains open and the lights go dim. You are in for a visual delight after opening the 
 box the game comes in. This game is incredible. It has outstanding graphics and cut scenes. The 
 graphics in this game really set the mood. A dark and gritty movie feel. This game reminds me of 
 the movie and that is an awesome accomplishment. I would recommend this to anyone who is a Blade 
 Runner movie fan. The only thing that could improve the game is if Darryl Hannah and Sean Young 
 were in the room whispering in your ear. Now if only I could get on board that advertisement blimp 
 and see what is inside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 26, 2004 7:31 am PT
Review:  Blade Runner is an amazing game that captures the essense of the movie, while treating us to a 
 whole new story. 
  
  You also are charged with catching more nexus 6 replicants that have escaped to Earth. Along the 
 way, you start to question who is the replicant and who are human.
  
  The game plays out in a graphic adventure fashion taking you to several location throughout the 
 game. You do meet with people like Sebastian and run across the room that Leon stays in. None of 
 the puzzles are too difficult and the only thing that may give you fits is the Espyr photo system. 
 I missed a few clues in the beginning that got me stuck later. Took me hours before I realized 
 that I needed to review the pictures again.
  
  The game has great voice acting and the graphics are a mix between graphics and digital bitmaps. 
 It is definitely polished and I had no problems running the game.
  
  The game does have several possible endings and has mild to moderate replay value. If you get the 
 game, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CGS-Sledge
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 30, 2004 7:30 pm PT
Review:  If you like adventure games, (some of my fondness memories are from playing adventure games) you 
 will be right at home with Blade Runner. The game puts you right into the Blade Runner universe 
 and offers a solid gaming experience. Adventure games have taken some flack over the past few years 
 but at one time they were the corner stone of all new releases. Blade Runner is one of those games 
 that suck you in and you want to keep playing to find out what happens next. You have to like the 
 point and click style of games, but if you played Kings Quest, Gabriel Knight series you should 
 be right at home with Blade Runner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeldaBoy2000
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2004 11:12 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why gamespot gave this a bad score. Sure, it's not a very in depth game but it's very 
 entertaining. I used to play this all the time a couple of years ago. It was so addicting. When 
 you did one thing the game turned out differentley. Tell me, whats not fun about finding clues. 
 Then you take them home and look at them on this machine you have and zoom in on things. Sometimes 
 you give people tests to see if they are a robot. You can interrogate people. Reinvestigate crime 
 scenes. Unlock areas. The only thing you cant do is explore an enviroment, unless it's a clue and 
 you put it in your computer thing. I remember having so much fun just walking around this city 
 and talking to people. This may be old and outdated now but if you dont mind the graphic detail 
 and other drawbacks of the software to make the game being old this game is lots of fun. If you 
 think gamespot gave it a fair score look at the average reader review score. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
