-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blade and Sword
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/bladeandsword/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 14, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 5.7, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 153 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Whiptail Interactive
Developer: Pixel Multimedia
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Dec 22, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Blade and Sword's strengths do not outweigh its shortcomings, which is unfortunate because there 
 are some nice gameplay elements to be found here. 

  Blade and Sword is a Diablo-style action role-playing game set in China. It has a heavy emphasis 
 on fighting-game elements such as combos, special attacks, and blocking. The game actually pulls 
 off these aspects really well and can be exciting at times. Unfortunately, a poor translation, 
 very repetitive gameplay, and a lack of any multiplayer features mar what otherwise could have 
 been an excellent take on this type of game.  

          Apparently, the death of his beloved horse caused this man to hang himself.     

  Blade 
 and Sword takes place 3,000 years in the past, albeit in an alternate past. It's difficult to make 
 out exactly what is happening in the story, though, due to a poor English translation from the 
 original Chinese. There's something about emperors and wars, but all you really need to know is 
 that there's an evil wizard that you need to stop. Wizard Wen has opened rifts between three realms, 
 and so creatures from the human, beast, and demon realms can now mingle freely. As such, all sorts 
 of foul monsters have come to terrorize humankind, and it's up to you to figure out exactly what's 
 wrong and how to fix it. Rather, it's up to you to kill a whole bunch of monsters single-handedly. 

  You can choose one of three heroes to step up to the task. The three heroes aren't created equal 
 though. The long-swordsman is the average, balanced character. He can stun a group of enemies and 
 move in for the attack, so he is the easiest to play as. The twin-blades heroine is fast and agile, 
 and while she isn't as powerful as the other two heroes, she does have a secondary kick attack. 
 The great-blade warrior is very strong, but he isn't as coordinated as his fellow comrades. The 
 latter two heroes are more difficult to play as because you have to put forth more effort to control 
 them due to their abilities and skill sets. Each hero has a unique set of skills, which are divided 
 into four categories, and each category has a progression of three skills, followed by a super 
 skill. Each skill (except for the super skills) can be upgraded twice to make it more powerful. 
 As with similar games with skill tress, you gain one point every level, and you may distribute 
 any accrued points whenever and however you wish.  

  Unlike in Diablo II, for example, you'll get every skill by the end of Blade and Sword. The upside 
 is that you won't be penalized for diversifying your character as in Diablo II, in which characters 
 with a variety of skills are much weaker than characters with a focus on particular skill sets. 
 The downside is that you can't create a unique character. There's no mystery about what some other 
 skill path may have given you, and so there's not much incentive to try playing the same character 
 in a different fashion. And that's only the beginning. When you level up, the game automatically 
 upgrades your ability scores. That means you can't make your character more powerful in one area 
 if you're inclined. Since the character-building aspects of Blade and Sword are really quite limited, 
 you'll never feel very attached to your character, nor does the game offer much replay value.  
        At last, a combo that will smash all foes to a pulp.     

  This identity crisis is further compounded by the fact that you don't scavenge for weapons. Part 
 of the appeal of role-playing games is finding new equipment for your characters. However, you 
 don't equip your character in Blade and Sword. You'll never put on better armor or find a stronger 
 sword. That's a shame -- it's not very exciting to never get to upgrade your arsenal. For what it's 
 worth, you can slightly upgrade and customize your character with gems, which bestow benefits like 
 extra damage or higher defense and are dropped by slain enemies or found in the environment.  

 
  A game had better have something to keep you interested if there isn't bountiful loot, and fortunately, 
 Blade and Sword does have something up its sleeve. Most of the skills in the skill tree are special 
 attacks that you can perform. For example, the twin-blade heroine can do a move that involves kicking 
 at an enemy three times consecutively. The special attacks aren't incredibly powerful on their 
 own, but they can be devastating when used in combinations. Your normal attack may only reduce 
 an enemy's health by a small amount, while a combination can slice through the same enemy's entire 
 life gauge. That's because enemies will fall down if they are hit by the same type of attack repeatedly, 
 preventing you from pursuing the attack until they regain their footing. For example, the great-blade 
 warrior will drop an enemy if he hits it with three normal attacks, and that enemy will probably 
 get back up. Instead, you can string together special attack combinations to inflict a lot of damage 
 without knocking down the opponent. The great-blade warrior can make a combination like this: two 
 normal attacks, two triple-strike attacks, two more normal attacks, one dragon lift, one more triple 
 strike, one normal attack, and then a smash throw. Fortunately the game allows you to make four 
 combo shortcuts, so you could do that entire sequence by just pressing the right mouse button instead 
 of manually changing attacks.     

  You need to be careful when executing combos, though, because most enemies can defend against your 
 attacks. You can defend against attacks as well. Simply hold down the Alt key, and you'll deflect 
 blows at the expense of stamina. The special attacks and defending are a welcome addition to the 
 action RPG genre because these things actually involve you in the action.  

          The game almost looks like a Diablo II mod at times.     

  You can also execute a super 
 attack once you gain the three skills in a set. You hold down the Ctrl or Alt buttons and trace 
 a pattern using your mouse. They aren't complex to draw -- the patterns consist of slash-shaped or 
 M-shaped marks -- and they can be used when you build up enough power. They can be quite devastating 
 when used properly. For example, the great-blade hero has a super power called the lion storm, 
 which will instantly kill most creatures. This is easier said than done, though, because you have 
 to spend time tracing and then charging up for the attack. And if you're disrupted, you'll lose 
 the 1,000 power points required to cast it. Everything else about Blade and Storm is clearly derived 
 from Diablo II. The game's interface is nearly identical: You use the left mouse button to attack 
 and the right mouse button to control the special moves. There are portals that quickly teleport 
 you to areas once you activate them. There is even a cube that transmutes items; for example, it 
 will transform three common amber gems into one refined amber gem. So, anyone who has devoted time 
 to the Diablo series will feel at home in Blade and Sword. The main problem with Blade and Sword 
 is that there isn't anything that will hold your attention in the long run. The game is single-player-only 
 and will last you about 20 hours in your first run. The obtuse storyline coupled with a practically 
 nonexistent treasure hunt means that Blade and Sword solely depends on combat to keep you coming 
 back for more. But the combat gets tiresome after a while and is very repetitive, especially after 
 you find a combo that works particularly well. You'll end up running past groups of enemies in 
 subsequent replays because you just don't want to deal with the time and effort required to kill 
 them -- not a very good sign for a game attempting to get you involved in the action.  

  At least Blade and Sword features a large selection of monsters to fight. The AI does a good job 
 of keeping you on your toes -- you'll have to use your parry and sidestep abilities in order to stay 
 alive. In fact, the game can be quite difficult at times. Some enemies will wait until you're deep 
 into a combo against another foe before rushing in behind you and attacking. That breaks up the 
 combo and leaves you surrounded by foes. Since you can only block attacks to your front, you'll 
 have to retreat and try again. One of the enemies in particular, the king hawk, is incredibly frustrating 
 because he has high hit points and can't be attacked while he is in the air -- you can hit him only 
 when he swoops down to attack you. This wouldn't be a problem except that he will hit you even 
 if you're several steps to his right or left. The poor hit detection makes it a long and irritating 
 battle. You'll hardly ever encounter a lone enemy, so the repetition sets in as you try to draw 
 one enemy away from a crowd and kill it.  

          The great-blade warrior spills more blood on an ancient battlefield.     

  Blade and 
 Sword has some decent graphical and sound effects that excel in some areas but falter in others. 
 The environments and models don't really stand out, although the terrain does change every few 
 stages. The animations aren't up to today's standards, especially when the characters jump or launch 
 an enemy into the air. But you won't notice it too much because, unlike in most other games, your 
 swords are actually sharp here. Your character will liberally spill blood and even frequently sever 
 limbs. This kind of brutality has been missing in action role-playing games and is perhaps the 
 only thing that helps you ignore the monotony of doing the same attacks over and over. The accompanying 
 sound of sword meeting flesh is appropriate, although it would have been nice if there were more 
 ambient sound and music in the game.  

  The absence of a multiplayer mode is the coup de grace for Blade and Sword. The maps aren't randomly 
 generated, so going through the game again as a different character really isn't enticing. Ultimately, 
 Blade and Sword's strengths do not outweigh its shortcomings, which is unfortunate because there 
 are some nice gameplay elements to be found here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: s1b3r2001
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Blades and Swords is an Action-Role Playing Game set in Ancient China.
  The game appears to be based on Blizzard Entertainment's Diablo II,
  as it borrows a lot of game 
 elements.
  
  What sets this game apart from other Action - RPG's is its unique combat system. 
  This is the 
 first game to incorporate fighting-game elements in a Role-Playing Game. 
  Blades and Swords' combat system involves creating a series of attacks called combos 
  for the 
 player to advance as the game progresses.
  
  In addition, as opposed to scavenging weapons and armor in Diablo II to make a 
  character powerful 
 aside from gaining experience from battles to gain new abilites, 
  the player controlling the character in Blades and Swords will instead 
  collect gemstones and 
 place those on the character's gem slots.
  
  The game has hundreds of minions that will be encountered throughout the game, 
  each having 
 its own combos, strengths and weaknesses.
  
  But despite all of these good things, Blades and Swords has a lot of short comings.
  
  First, 
 the graphics.
  The game utilized sets two-dimensional images called sprites, in other words,
  pre-made images 
 that have been programmed to be put on screen at a certain time and 
  condition, and a low detailed 3D enviroment. Although the graphics have an impressive 
  look, 
 the animations (the depicted movement/shapeshifting of characters, objects and 
  monsters) are not fluid.
  
  Second, the sound effects.
  The sound effects of this game lack 
 a bit of innovation and creativity, a few soundtracks
  and sound effects in the game are interesting though.
  
  Third, the english transalation.
 
  The story appears to be hard to understand for most people, due to the wrong 
  translations. Unless you're asian (that's right, i'm an asian) , you can understand 
  the conversations 
 and the dialects in the game even with the mistranslated words, 
  therefore, understand what's going on in the world of Blades and Swords. A lot of reviews
  complain 
 about this.
  
  Last and the worst of all, lack of overall innovation and effort.
  
  It is obvious that Blades and Swords have a lot of stuff still to be worked on and
  can still 
 be improved. 
  
  One obvious good example is the very simple load game window, 
  where a player can play a saved character and continue where that character left-off in 
  the 
 game. A LOT of good visuals can still be squeezed in, like a movie of, let's say the 
  swordsman battling a horde of monsters or at least make the selection screen more appealing.
 
  
  The game happens to have errors in programming, in lay man's terms, there are a number
  of features that malfunction. Two players told me that on a certain part of the game,
  there 
 is this quest, that once it has been given to the player, it must be finished before
  the player can call it a day, otherwise, that quest will not be regarded by the game as
  completed 
 even though the player has done all the required tasks.
  
  
  Overall, Blades and Swords could have been a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwizard209
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 17, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Blade and Sword is a fairly typical hack and slash. it has the standard 2-d graphics and loot collection. 
 the only things which set it apart are its asain themed world and story and an intereting comabt 
 system.
  
  there are three characters to choose from. a girl: very fast, lots of mp (or whatever they called 
 it) , hard to hit, does very little damage, has very little life. a regular guy: not as fast, not 
 as much mp, has more life and does more damage. then a really big guy: slow, much less mp, does 
 lots of damage and had lots more life. the characters are very different and determine how you 
 play the game. each can be fun so there is a little replay value to be had, but only if you really 
 want to play as another character.
  
  the combat uses martail arts moves instead of your standard magic attacks. this is a pleasant inovation. 
 the only tricky part of it is a bad aiming system. you tend to miss the enemies you have selected 
 to hit so you end up wasting mp. this is, firstly, extremely iratating and, secondly, hazordous 
 to your character.
  
  the second inovation the game has is an expansion of the runes available for use in Diablo 2. in 
 order to upgrade your weapons and armor, you need to collect and place runes in them. the runes 
 make up alot of the loot you gather. this was a nice change at first, mainly because the different 
 runes change how you look, but comes off as a pretty useless inovation. they needed to do more 
 with it for it to be a truly good touch.
  
  what brings this game down is the stiffness of the story, the stiffness of the characters and world 
 (even though it's 2-d your characters shouldn't move like stick figures) , and a terrible boss set 
 up. the bosses in this game are easily the hardest i've ever faced. it is totally ridiculous. you 
 go through the game fighting all these guys and it can be a challenge at times, which is good; 
 but then you come to a boss and he not only has an absurd amount of life, he also kicks the crap 
 out of you. and it doesn't matter how strong you get. they always kick the crap out of you. i was 
 happy when i only had to die twice to kill one of these guys. the rest of the game is fun enough 
 for a seven, but the simple fact of an everest size spike in difficulty of bosses ruins alot of 
 it.
  
  if you feel a need for an asian themed game, this is a decent one; but if you want a hack-n-slash, 
 go with Sacred. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenwaiy
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Not a bad game but take some time to master it. It has nice sound effect, but graphics is just 
 above average. Worth playing. 
  
  This game is just like a Diablo-style action role-playing game but set in China. It has a heavy 
 emphasis on fighting-game elements such as combos, special attacks, and blocking. The game actually 
 pulls off these aspects really well and can be exciting at times. Unfortunately, a poor translation, 
 very repetitive game play, and it don't have any multiplayer. 
  
  The cool thing is use can assemble stone, gem and jewel and add it to your weapon to make you stronger 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Freeman
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 19, 2004 8:48 am PT
Review:  I'm a fan of everything purely traditionally japanese and chinese. I fully believe in that culture, 
 and their whole philosophy towards life is accentuated in everything they put their hands on : 
 Architechture, mythology, technology, way of talking, way of living, etc...
  As a martial arts student, I have always been waiting for a game that truly captures this escence 
 on the PC, which hasn't been done before. There's something about games, that for some reason, 
 they dont quite succesfully capture this escence, with a few exceptions (Tenchu, Shinobi, Bushido 
 Blade, Samurai Warriors) . Unfortunately, all of these games are not for the PC, and the PC has 
 so much to offer.
  At last a Diablo-type but in the martial arts vein!! Sadly, its a few steps short from reaching 
 action RPG excellence.
  To sum it up, the graphics could be waaaaay better, and the animation is really dissapointing. 
 The strong part of this game is the soundtrack, the whole concept, many gameplay elements, like 
 the ability to block, parry, make a quick turning dodge, and be able to make customized combo sessions.
 
  But the part that kills the game the most, is the technical one, the programming.
  The presentation is terribly made, with glitches everywhere. If this would have been made almost 
 flawless, this game would take different heights.
  Although, it is a really happy day for action RPGers, for this one will give something to look 
 for in upcoming, more well-made ARPGs.
  Rent it, see if you love it. If you dont, enjoy it for as long as it lasts you. Its worth a place 
 in your collection if you want to have 3 steps forward to the Action RPG ideal. But dont be fooled, 
 this is not the ideal, its just a transition; sadly, the outdated graphs and interface makes this 
 one a few steps back. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
