-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blade of Darkness
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/bladeofdarkness/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 28, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.6, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 723 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Rebel Act Studios
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Feb 19, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's got some problems and takes some time to get into, but should otherwise appeal to players who've 
 enjoyed previous hack-and-slash action games, or like the idea of them. 

 Blade of Darkness is a hack-and-slash third-person action game in which you can play as one of four 
 different warriors, all of whom must do bloody battle with assorted forces of evil. The game follows 
 in the tradition of similar fantasy-themed 3D action games that feature violent melee combat, such 
 as Die by the Sword, Heretic II, Drakan, and, most recently, Rune. Blade of Darkness distinguishes 
 itself from the rest of these with its selection of different characters, its motion-captured character 
 animation, and its gore effects and lighting effects. It's got some problems and takes some time 
 to get into, but it should otherwise appeal to players who've enjoyed previous hack-and-slash action 
 games, or those who like the idea of them.           The lighting effects are noteworthy -- and so 
 is the gore    

 Created by Spanish developer Rebel Act Studios, Blade of Darkness has an immediately recognizable, 
 rather unremarkable fantasy premise -- just swords, sorcery, and the like. The setting and characters 
 in the game aren't very distinctive, though they're still pretty fun. At the beginning of the game, 
 you choose whom you want to play as: Tukaram, a heavily tattooed barbarian warrior; Naglfar, a 
 burly dwarf; Sargon, a venerable knight; and Zoe, a lithe huntress. These characters look different 
 from each other, have different preferences of weapons, and have different strengths and weaknesses 
 in terms of power, agility, and defense. However, you control the characters in exactly the same 
 way, and they really don't play that much differently from one another when you get down to it. 
 The main difference is, depending on which character you choose, you'll end up relying on different 
 types of weapons. And, each character takes a different course through the game.   

  They'll find plenty of weapons along their journey, including one-handed and two-handed swords 
 as well as axes, maces, polearms, spears, and bows. Some of the weapons are even magical or poisonous. 
 You'll also come across a variety of shields, which can be used together with a one-handed weapon 
 to repel attacks. Shields are valuable, but when their durability is reduced to nothing and they 
 break, they'll leave you vulnerable for a moment. Fortunately, two-handed weapons can be used, 
 to an extent, in place of shields to parry oncoming attacks right at the last moment.          
  Sargon the knight surprises an enemy    

 Being able to parry attacks is just one of the many fighting techniques available in Blade of Darkness. 
 The combat system lets you input different key combinations to produce a wide variety of different 
 attacks, but you must be mindful of your stamina, or you'll find yourself out of breath and a sitting 
 duck. You gain experience as you kill enemies, and as you gain experience levels, you gain access 
 to additional special attacks, and you get stronger and healthier. This system is more robust than 
 that of most similar games, although it isn't quite as open as Die by the Sword's system, which 
 lets you swing your sword arm in any direction by moving your mouse around accordingly. However, 
 as in Die by the Sword, the combat in Blade of Darkness can take a lot of getting used to. The 
 controls aren't immediately intuitive and don't seem very responsive, and it'll actually take you 
 a while to get a grasp of the timing necessary to win battles. You'll often get frustrated with 
 how your character will tend to step too far into every attack, inadvertently moving past the intended 
 foe and exposing his or her back. You'll also find that it can be difficult to tell when your character 
 is taking damage; there often isn't a clear visual or audible cue when you suffer a hit. Furthermore, 
 each character's walking speed is inordinately slow. You have to double-tap the walk key in order 
 to run, which is faster, but even the running speed can seem sluggish, at least for the larger 
 characters. If you're more used to fast-paced first-person shooters, you'll find that it takes 
 a while to get accustomed to the rather deliberate pacing in Blade of Darkness.   

  Then again, once you get into combat, the pacing definitely picks up. The battles in the game are 
 challenging, because your opponents are fast, tough, aggressive, and even somewhat intelligent. 
 Unfortunately many of these foes can be trapped into simple patterns, though you'll actually find 
 that exploiting these patterns is often imperative to your success. However, doing so requires 
 you to be fighting in wide-open spaces, which isn't always possible. When you're in tight quarters, 
 the game's third-person camera angle has a tendency of panning in too close to your character suddenly, 
 thus throwing off your timing. Fortunately, for the most part, the camera does a good job of showing 
 you what's ahead; you just have to make sure and let nothing get behind you.    

 Blade of Darkness features some impressive special effects. Predictably, you can rend your opponents 
 limb from limb. Severed appendages fly forth amidst plenty of arterial spraying, which pours to 
 the ground in bright red splotches. At the same time, the death animations are motion-captured 
 to be quite dramatic. Your fallen foes will put on quite a show before they come to rest on the 
 ground -- as will you, should your character be killed. Blade of Darkness definitely isn't for the 
 squeamish, as your characters will even sustain noticeable battle damage as they take hits. You'll 
 see bloody gashes start to show all over their bodies, though these magically disappear when you 
 quaff a health potion -- or eat a chunk of meat. Of further note, Blade of Darkness also has highly 
 realistic lighting effects and object physics. Light sources such as torches and fire pits make 
 realistic, flitting shadows appear behind all nearby characters and objects. Many of these objects, 
 such as crates and barrels and the like, are breakable and shatter realistically when you hit them 
 with your weapons. You can pick up and throw your weapons and other small objects, which ricochet 
 believably. Your characters even remain just a few real-world inches off the ground when they jump. 
           Zoe faces foes out in the open    

 The graphical effects in the game demand a top-of-the-line computer, and you'll need a relatively 
 fast one even to get the game running. The graphics suffer from some clipping issues: For example, 
 if you're bearing a torch and stand too close to a wall, the light source will actually vanish 
 behind that wall until you move. Furthermore, some of the character models look rather awkward. 
 In fact, most of the player characters in the game look a little stiff. The environments in Blade 
 of Darkness look fairly realistic at a glance but are also often lacking in realistic detail or 
 are otherwise too sparse. Fortunately, the sound in the game is quite good, and the voice acting 
 performances are fairly well done. However, the frequent battle cries you'll hear in combat are 
 rather repetitive even if they are effective, while the sounds of your weapons hitting true are 
 a little too subdued, especially considering the rest of the game's graphic content.   

  Blade of Darkness is quite a long game, and its battles are often intense. But the actual levels 
 in the game aren't all that interesting. You might find yourself getting lost in the uniform environments, 
 and without any kind of compass tool to guide you, you'll just have to wander until you find your 
 way. Finding your way often involves finding a necessary key or flipping some sort of lever, which 
 is an old convention that seems overdone even the first time it comes up in the game. It's also 
 worth mentioning that Blade of Darkness may be very difficult for some players, as some of the 
 battles against stronger foes -- let alone when they attack in greater numbers -- can be brutal on 
 those who are inexperienced with similar games. Unfortunately there's no option to adjust the difficulty 
 of the game.           Tukaram shrugs off his battle scars    

 Finally, although a multiplayer arena mode is available, it isn't very worthwhile -- it simply lets 
 two players have at it over a network while up to six others wait their turn. Luckily, the long 
 single-player quest and the four playable characters should give the game a good amount of longevity 
 in spite of this.   

  Because of its visceral, action-packed combat sequences, Blade of Darkness should appeal to fans 
 of similar games or those who like gritty high-fantasy battles. The control scheme takes getting 
 used to and never really becomes second nature, and the game's mostly good graphics do have some 
 noticeable shortcomings. Likewise, the combat can get somewhat repetitive, and you'll find that 
 the four playable characters actually aren't as different as they first appear. Even so, Blade 
 of Darkness makes good on its main promises: It's a bloody action game that lets you use a wide 
 variety of weapons to make mincemeat of a wide variety of foes. In the end, if that sounds appealing 
 to you, then you'll certainly appreciate the game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (44 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LukeStarkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2009 11:42 am PT
Review:  In my opinion this game was an absulute revolution for game industry, gameplay is both original 
 and fun, the graphics are simply unveliable for the year in wich the game was released, combat 
 system IMHO is the best ever created for an action game, the evirovement and art design are also 
 amazing...
  
  What can I say.... Blade is a good example to prove that life is not allways fair... Cannot understand 
 why this game is barely known for most players. Its an absolute must have for all Players!!!
  
  I hear that the designers fall down after a few months from relesase, and they blame piracy... 
 Cruel history for a truly unbeatable amazing game!!!
  
  Reviews like GS did, maybe do not help the game success. Its underated!!!
  
  Please GS take 
 a look at the users review and do some justice to this EPIC GAME!!!
  
  PD: Give it a try, and have fun!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebyval
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Blade of Darkness is a hack-and-slash action game. From the beginning, you can choose from four 
 different characters that follow almost the same storyline. The only thing that differs (in the 
 storyline perspective) between them is that each of them have a different starting-map, the rest 
 of the maps are the same for everybody. The game engine is build entirely on Python. In Blade of 
 Darkness you are able to collect a large amounts of weapons along with the journey and you can 
 pickup ALMOST anything around you (things like stools, torches, and even severed limbs of your 
 enemies) and using them as weapons. Although the game is pretty old (was released in 2001) , the 
 lightning effects are quite impressing. It's replayabilty is good, because the storyline and the 
 size and number of the maps are good, but also, it has a map-editor which means that the replayability 
 is drastically increased. Overall, it's a good game. It's worthwhile to take a peek ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGreatmars
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 9:06 pm PT
Review:  I will focus on :
  GAME PLAY . It is the key feature of the game it is so special
  * (you choose one of 4 characters Barbarian, Knight, Dwarf and Amazon each character have its own 
 starting level which is related to the character itself) *
  
  And What Makes this game so unique is its Combat System
  * (after playing the game i searched 
 for any other games with the same combat system but i couldn't find any) *
  
  you can make 4 basic attacks using a direction key and attack key and these basic attacks animations 
 vary according to the weapon you are using also each weapon have its own combo
  * (it is preferred to lock on enemy while doing combos) *
  
  besides each character have its 
 own abilities that can be done with his specialized type of weapons
  * (Barbarians uses: long swords and long axes, Dwarf uses: Axes ,Hammers and Clubs , Knight uses: Swords 
 and maces while amazons uses: spears ... also all characters can use Bow) *
  
  also the stamina system might make you think before you attack so it is not just a plan hack and 
 slash game ,the game might be a little hard but that if u just fight without tactics
  * (knights are smart and usually wait for you to attack first while apes are stupid and slow also 
 when you fight a skeleton it is preferred to use a mace or a club while it is preferred to fight 
 zombies with swords and axes) *
  
  And if all that is not enough there is life drawing weapons ,Poisoning weapons ,fire and ice weapons.
 
  
  * (i didn't talk about the environment and sounds because they got outdated although they still 
 playable at these days)
  
  The game only needed to be little more polished and well advertised and maybe that is why the company 
 bankrupted.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dal-Force
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 2:00 am PT
Review:  Luckily, I claimed this game at 2001. It worth that money to spend. Every single piece of money 
 worth it. Thanks again for god, I finally got an amazing game. That being said, that this game 
 was probably very underrated even at GameSpot and IGN.
  
  Story: Basically you need to defeat the Dark Lord of the Chaos and their minions, and as you get 
 deeper into the game, the more bloodthirsty and more powerful enemies you will meet. However, you 
 are also gaining levels (you will become pretty powerful near the end of the game) , which helps 
 you to boost your attack's strength and your armor. There are several runes in the game, which 
 are not necessary to collect, but their storytelling is superb and the music when that is happening 
 is nicely touching your heart too. Since I do not want to reveal much, I keep the story for you, 
 so you can enjoy after you've read this review.
  
  Gameplay: The diamond that shining here is the gameplay itself. You can control 4 characters, each 
 one is different, there is an old knight (who has a cruel past) , a barbarian, a dwarf and an amazon. 
 Each one has their own preferred weapons, and their differences in their stats. The great hack 
 and slash style is also nice and unique. You can also cut off the enemy's limbs (like an arm or 
 a leg) , which makes the gameplay more realistic. Maybe there are other nice things you can do, 
 but I do not want to go into the details.
  
  Design: The levels are nicely textured, and they won't be forgotten even after some years. The 
 visual appearing is unique, nice shadow effects, so overall it's a highly designed game. (And I'm 
 knowing this game since 2001.)
  
  Sound: The music is just touching deeply into your emotions. If you feel somehow, you would like 
 to enjoy a good game with heartbreaking music and realistic sounds, why not try this one?
  
  Negatives: In my opinion, the game is somehow short. There aren't many maps, but they are usually 
 long, and each one is unique, they are different, so this isn't short, but if you finish the whole 
 game, that's how you might feel. There are snowy maps, and there is also a map, where we need to 
 go 'within the tombs'. No more example, I do not want to include much spoilers :-)
  And they are different. It's not the same places you need to visit and see the whole time if you 
 go for new maps. I would like to play a good sequel... but I don't think that will happen, unless 
 a good game developer team look upon this legend and build upon it with their unique ideas (At 
 the first part, I thought that Remedy could do that, since their Max Payne series are kicking ass 
 too, or even Rockstar Games!) . Also back in its time at 2001, many people has been 'attacking' 
 the game saying that its incredibly requiring high system requirements (I guess this wouldn't be 
 a problem in the present days) .
  Another negative that the multiplayer is lacking (and not satisfying that much, there could be 
 more gamemodes eh?) , and I don't be able to find a way to play online... but since I'm not into 
 the multiplayer gaming, I don't care. I accept, that it would be even more fun, but this game is 
 superb without that too.
  
  System requirements: Seriously, the most computers can run this now, even my old computer, where 
 I've played this game for countless hours, and I enjoyed it all the time, so do not hesitate to 
 buy this game if you can find it somewhere for a good price like Amazon or even eBay for example.
 
  
  About the game creators: Sadly, the developers (Rebel Act Studios) are out of order, since of their 
 bankruptcy in 2002. Even their official Severance: Blade of Darkness' website has been removed 
 at Codemasters. It's such a shame, because this game was an amazing one, this really has the fun 
 and the meaning in every shape of form, and I think it doesn't deserves its cruel fate to be forgotten. 
 But if that happened already, then RIP this game.... no matter because I will keep it and play with 
 it. I can feel, that the Rebel Act Studios and the good developers are smiling on me for keeping 
 their product :-)
  
  + There are many mods made by the fans, you can find them if you search at ModDB for the keywords: 
 "Severance Blade of Darkness", click on the first entry at the search and try to install up some 
 mods. Mods are even more amazing for this game, and again I feel a bit shamefully that not much 
 people does know about a good hack and slash game like this one...
  
  + Thanks for reading this review (at least if you didn't just skipped the texts and scrolled down 
 for here) . And have a lot of fun at this game ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamzashah
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  It scares you when you playing it cool scary music nice fighting and very realistic game now we 
 want blade of darkness 2 more improved with more realistic graphics the first one was amizing ive 
 finish that game twice it won't bore you no metter how much you play it . THIS GAME IS TOTALY AMIZING 
 ENJOY IT
  
  It scares you when you playing it cool scary music nice fighting and very realistic game now we 
 want blade of darkness 2 more improved with more realistic graphics the first one was amizing ive 
 finish that game twice it won't bore you no metter how much you play it . THIS GAME IS TOTALY AMIZING 
 ENJOY IT
  
  It scares you when you playing it cool scary music nice fighting and very realistic game now we 
 want blade of darkness 2 more improved with more realistic graphics 
  the first one was amizing ive finish that game twice it won't bore you no metter how much you play 
 it . THIS GAME IS TOTALY AMIZING ENJOY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bilelrouabhia
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  It's one of the best games of ancient fighting adventure games with a sword i ever saw, the objective 
 is to collect six symbols from thye different stages to put them on the final and the greatest 
 and the powerfull sword, the sword of IANA (the blade of darkness) to fight kill the deamon and 
 you can't do that without this weapon, 4 characters means 4 styles of fighting, weapons and opening 
 stage, verry good combos & amazing Maps & locations, I feel power and strong whene I play this amazing 
 game because each one of them (the four characters) have his special abilitys and more three weapons 
 with more power (Ice Sword from the cold lands, Fire Sword from the fire Stage and the blood sword 
 from the evil squelatonthan) than the original sword found in the different stages of the game, 
 each character will developpe and increase just if you fight enimies, there is twenty one level 
 or more will you reach it if you do not leave any enimy behind you but be carfull, there is many 
 powerfull enimies waiting you, a. Bilel Rouabhia.4 characters means 4 styles of fighting, weapons 
 and opening stage, verry good combos & amazing Maps & locations, I feel power and strong whene I 
 play this amazing game because each one of them (the four characters) have his special abilitys 
 and more three weapons with more power (Ice Sword from the cold lands, Fire Sword from the fire 
 Stage and the blood sword from the evil squelatonthan) than the original sword found in the different 
 stages of the game, each character will developpe and increase just if you fight enimies,4 characters 
 means 4 styles of fighting, weapons and opening stage, verry good combos & amazing Maps & locations, I 
 feel power and strong whene I play this amazing game because each one of them (the four characters) have 
 his special abilitys and more three weapons with more power (Ice Sword from the cold lands, Fire 
 Sword from the fire Stage and the blood sword from the evil squelatonthan) than the original sword 
 found in the different stages of the game, each character will developpe and increase just if you 
 fight enimies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a1max
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Blade of darkness, i absolutely cannot agree with GS's review score of 7.2 for this great game.. 
 to begin with this is a solid hack and slash game which is great but does have it's share of problems.. 
 BOD has 4 different playable characters, and they all feel different, the Combat system in this 
 game is Absolutely solid, you will not find a game with better gore than this back in it's time, 
 enemies get dismembered in so many ways... and it is a tough game, it gets very tough in the later 
 parts of the game... the story is good, but not remarkable... the audio is great.. enemies are 
 very tough to kill if you're not skilled, and you will be satisfied completely after finishing 
 this game.... and this is one of those games which definitely needed a sequel, but alas, there 
 is none... if you're a fan of hack and slash, or enjoy great adventure games, this game is a legend.... 
 this game has a cult following for a reason.... this game truly needs a sequel.
  
  8.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghaz013
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  -Pros-
  *Excellent Combat System
  *Superb Graphics
  *Not Massively Complicated in Gameplay
  *Unique Weapons and Characters
  *Level up to get Stronger 
 and Tougher
  *Lots of Replay Value
  *Gorgeous Environments
  *Wicked AI
  *Alternate Endings
  *Excellent Audio
  
  -Cons-
  *Story a Bit Hard to Follow
  *Buggy/Glitches 
 (Patch 1.1 Available)
  *Leveling up only goes to Level 22.
  *No one Online for Multiplayer
  *Minimal Sidequests
  
  Summary- If youre looking for an in-depth 
 gameplay mechanics look elsewhere like Morrowind. If you're looking for simple hack and slash action 
 there is no better game than Blade of Darkness!!!
  
  Hardware/Software Issues- If you have a multi core CPU, disable all but one core if you experience 
 the game running too 'fast.' Or try a hotfix of some kind.
  
  Highly recommended you apply patch 1.1 to fix bug issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zitzy2000
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Where do I start. Severance: Blade of Darkness was one of the best games of its time. Its old now, 
 but still the graphics are great. The lighting is superb, and the combat is amazing. Sure its a 
 little hard to get used to using the keyboard, in fact this was one of the first games I played 
 with the w, s, a, d then control, or shift or whatever you need to press. But it will take you about 
 20 mins to pick up the combat, but the games lasts forever!!!
  
  I remember stopping the game for a while because it got too hard, then I decided to go back to 
 it, when I was more experienced at the kind of game, and completed it. Loved every second of it.
 
  
  Now the combo moves that you have to do, sure they can be hard, but what game isnt when your trying 
 to pull a combo off.
  
  One of the greatest parts of the game, is when you are fighting an orc, and you chop its arm off, 
 and you can pick the arm up and hit him with it. Its awesome, also you will see many a time where 
 you swing your sword round your head, and cut off the orcs head, and see it rolling down the hill. 
 The gore is excessive, but well worth a play. NOT FOR KIDS UNDER 18 ideally. In england the game 
 is rated 18, as well it should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellknight13
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  Apparently this is one of the games with the most disturbing violence, however I've seen better 
 in different games. This game is rather fun to play though; by selecting one of the four playable 
 characters (Barbarian is my favourite character) they each go through a different storyline and 
 the ability to handle different weapons for instance dwarfs can handle hammers and they are the 
 most powerful in the game however their defense is a big issue. It confuses me that the more powerful 
 weapon you have, your defense decreases. It's not like its armour or anything *laughs to himself*.
 
  
  On the otherhand this game is really worth playing but don't forget to save reguarlly since that 
 each level is long and the game doesn't save itself either. If you forget to save the game and 
 die, it becomes really frustrating to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  After four years in development, two or three publishers, and megabytes of screenshots showing 
 incredible lighting and shadow effects, its a happy day to see Blade of Darkness finally hit shelves. 
 Had Blade been in development at a high-profile studio in, say, Dallas, Im sure there would have 
 been howls of derision at its delays. Good thing, then, that its the product of a Madrid-based 
 developer thats sitting on some impressive technology and has some bright game-design minds able 
 to shape the content.
  
  Blade throws every game style and the kitchen sink into its standard third-person action/adventure 
 format, hosting RPG elements, four playable characters, a strong beat-em-up combat style, an involved 
 plotline, and no small strategy melded within the subtleties of the core gameplay. At its heart, 
 the game is a castle and dungeon crawl, intertwined with a perpetual key hunt and an occasional 
 search for six runes, hidden in secret locations within the game worlds 18 levels. This journey 
 across a traditional fantasy world overrun by orcs is made palatable by an eerie lighting system 
 and some amazing injections of sound that cause the tense atmosphere to drip from the stone cold 
 walls of each new location.
  
  Technologically, Blade is a tour de force of graphical wizardry. The texture detail on most of 
 the creatures and the d&eacute; cor in the levels are amazing in themselves, but the highpoint is 
 the much-touted lighting system. Flickering torches cause shadows to dance off the walls and floors, 
 and magic weapons glint off the shields of enemy knights. Even outdoor environments benefit from 
 subtle shadowing, as archers hide on balconies, and snow flurries blow across ledges.
  
  In building a tense atmosphere of danger in every single environment, subtle sound cues magnify 
 the graphical impact. As you enter one cathedral area, decked with demonic iconography in its stained-glass 
 windows, a rousing Gregorian chant drowns your nervous footfalls. Its a dazzling setup -- though 
 the payoff (a duel against two death knights) really didnt live up to the level of expectation 
 that the choral audio cue suggested. Elsewhere, the ambient sound is unobtrusive, and footsteps 
 sound different on various surfaces, showing a keen attention to detail.
  
  All this detail serves as a backdrop to the combat itself, which is an intriguing, carefully constructed 
 affair of thoughtful thrusting, slashing, and parrying. Each of the four character classes -- Dwarf, 
 Amazon, Knight and Barbarian -- has its own attack styles and weapon preferences: the Barbarian 
 wields two-handed weapons with ease, for example, while the Dwarf is at home with axes and hammers 
 and the defensive aid of a shield. The characters also have unique special moves, pulled off using 
 combos akin to those in a beat-em-up. The quirky control scheme doesnt let you strafe at all 
 unless youre in a combat stance -- achieved by hitting the Tab key to lock-on to an enemy, at which 
 point you can strafe around in a dance routine of jabs, swipes, and poetic combos. Some more powerful 
 magic weapons have their own specific combo options
  
  All these fighting features sounds wonderfully compelling until you discover just how hard it is 
 to pull off the super-power combos. The ability to nail the super-powered special attacks makes 
 a huge difference, particularly in the later game, when youre faced with enemies sporting several 
 thousand more hit points than you. But these attacks are tough to complete and frustrating in the 
 chaos of battle, as your combos run together and quickly sap your stamina bar. At least when you 
 do land special moves, youre rewarded with a colored glow of power and massively increased damage
 
  
  Character weapon preferences also affect the difficulty level of playing each class. The Amazons 
 aptitude with spears and bo sticks and her nimble footwork in dodging enemy attacks make her the 
 easiest to play. The lumbering Barbarian, for his part, dishes out great damage but often has to 
 stand toe-to-toe and take some knocks along the way. Of course, we cant overlook the gore factor. 
 Blades M rating is well deserved, as the brutal cleaving of limbs and heads is common, and the 
 attendant spurts of blood stain the walls and floors (though gore and blood can be turned off) . 
 Amusingly, the enemies have a subtle, stunned reaction to this dismemberment, rocking and staggering 
 slowly before finally keeling over in a blood-soaked heap. Adding insult to their injury, you can 
 pick up a foes severed limb and beat his buddy to death with the soggy end.
  
  Blades baddies display some impressive AI-driven moves and vary in their hit-point levels and 
 equipment (theyre armed with progressively more vicious armaments that you can pick up) ; but fighting 
 the orcs, knights, skeletons, zombies, and golems does get quite repetitive, despite strategic 
 quirks of learning what weapons do better damage against particular creatures (use hammers against 
 skeletons and edged weapons against zombies) . Its credit to the combat system, though, that each 
 encounter still plays in a unique way. On top of that, multiple enemies will work together, with 
 the strongest coming forward first, though nothing will inflame your ire more than a near-dead 
 orc swigging from a full health potion its carrying while youre dodging his buddies swipes. 
 The anguish is tangible, mainly because you know that dying will cause a reload, and the reload 
 times are looooong. Not only that, but theres no quick-save: you have to maneuver through two 
 menu screens to access the save option, and then there are only six slots available.
  
  While the LAN and TCP/IP multiplayer duels encourage effective use of combos, and work reasonably 
 smoothly, they dont have the depth of possibilities that even Interplays quirky, poor-selling 
 Die By The Sword managed several years ago. Its a shame Blade doesnt offer more in this regard 
 considering how potentially repetitive the single-player campaign can become. Long and frequent 
 load times serve only to pull you out of the game world, and in doing so, render much of the voice-driven 
 plot-telling inconsequential. Similarly, the games RPG element serves to make you feel more powerful 
 as you progress, but its an artificial system: I gained two levels in quick succession when killing 
 just two average skeletons -- Id evidently taken a branching path more difficult than my character 
 could manage, and was given a rapid boost.
  
  Though the journey through Blades world is very, very arduous, its encouraging that the designers 
 seemed to keep the best for last, with the final levels featuring the most impressive boss enemies, 
 and the most detailed and inventive level designs. When you complete the quest, youll have earned 
 it, since it too often feels like hard work. But no job worth doing is easy, and Blade is a great 
 example of its genre, and a fine gaming experience by any standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otomayim
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 10, 2007 3:11 am PT
Review:  Blade of Darkness had the potential for becoming one of the most impressive action titles ever 
 made... a few drawbacks kept it back from fulfilling this potential. .
  
  Graphics - The game looks gorgeous at first glance. The environments look amazing, the draw distance 
 is excellent and there is a nice variety of different looking areas. Mines, castles, ancient temples, 
 graveyards, caves, snowy fortresses etc. The textures are incredible in this title. Add to this 
 the top notch lighting-water effects, the jaw dropping shadows and the quite good physics engine 
 ( you can throw your weapons, pick up and use a huge variety of items, break items of your environment 
 -&gt; all the above occur in a very realistic manner) and you have a very immersive and visually 
 appealing game. .
  
  However there are a few things that look a bit less spectacular after a few hours in the title. 
 First of all the environments feel a bit empty. Technically speaking they look great -as already 
 said. From an artistic point of view they become a bit repetitive and uninspiring. They don't disappoint 
 but they neither impress (this is also related to the design of the stages -&gt; more on that in 
 the game play section of the review) . The physics engine, the texture quality and the effects of 
 the title, help BoD to overcome these obstacles. .
  
  Another disadvantage is the character design. Your enemies don't look as amazing as their environments 
 (even your main characters don't look as impressive) . There are a few better looking enemies like 
 the knights or the skeletons. However most of the others are a bit blocky and have a stiff animation. 
 Again the fantastic shadows that those enemy-models cast make everything seem more visually impressive 
 and help the title to overcome these disadvantages. What's more the title has lots of blood and 
 gore since you can even tear your enemies limb from limb and see them dying in countless horrible 
 ways ( you can even use their limbs as a weapon) . .
  
  Sometimes (when you'll have more than 3 enemies on screen at once) the frame rate drops considerably. 
 There are also a few clipping problems here and there + the game crashes rarely but those are very 
 nitpicking comments. .
  
  To sum it up, great visuals but not perfect.
  
  Sound - The epic music sets the mood in the title, the sound effects and the voice acting are good 
 enough to keep everything interesting. However there is nothing really memorable or worth mentioning 
 in the sound department. .
  
  Game play  Before starting the game youll have to choose between 4 different characters: the 
 knight ( uses one  handed swords / maces and shields) , the Amazon ( uses spears for attacking 
 and blocking) , the barbarian ( uses two handed swords and axes) and the dwarf ( uses one handed 
 axes and shields) . Each character has different dodging and jumping abilities (the Amazon and the 
 barbarian are better in these areas since they cant use shields in order to defend themselves, 
 although they can use their weapons for blocking -just for a moment though) . Moreover each character 
 can use effectively different weapons. .
  
  During combat you can use a nice variation of regular attacks by hitting the directional keys and 
 the attack button (there are different simple combinations) . There are also special attacks in 
 the game, which are related to specific weapons for each character. These attacks require a complicated 
 key combination, reminding a bit of a fighting game. Whats more these attacks consume energy from 
 your stamina-meter so you'll need to be careful while using them, since if there is no energy left, 
 youll be standing defenseless for a few seconds. .
  
  The combat system is the most innovative feature of the title. Youll have to choose the right 
 weapon depending on the enemy. For example orcs and trolls are vulnerable to sword attacks, however 
 skeletons and golems can be easily taken down with blunt weapons and their special attacks. Youll 
 have to choose carefully your equipment, because there are limitations in the total number of weapons 
 and shields that you can carry and use, and youll need to experiment a bit and see which special 
 attack has a better result during combat. .
  
  Another nice feature in the game is that shields take damage each time you block an attack (the 
 two handed weapons take no damage at all while blocking) . Before each battle youll have to check 
 your shields hit points. If it is too weak (close to zero) youll have to change it with another 
 one (you can pick up and carry a maximum number of three shields) since if a shield breaks during 
 combat youll take damage and be stunned for a few seconds. Keep in mind that blocking an enemy 
 hit not only protects you but also gives you the chance of counter attacking. .
  
  After each enemy kill you'll gain experience points depending on the level and the kind of your 
 opponent. Eventually youll level-up and that means more hit points for your character, better 
 defense, more energy in your stamina meter and more special attacks for you to use + after each 
 level up your health will be restored. This adds a RPG element to the title and forces you to 
 kill as many enemies as you can in order to become more powerful. .
  
  Your enemies are smart enough to hear you, see you and cause you troubles. There is a nice variety 
 of them and as already said youll need to find the appropriate weapon and the right combos in 
 order to be victorious. Whats more your enemies use techniques similar to yours during combat. 
 Theyll use their shields or try to dodge in order to avoid your hits. If they are more than one, 
 theyll try to surround you. Sometimes the battles can become really hard and challenging. Your 
 opponents have also special attacks that can break your shield with one hit or can cause you lots 
 of damage. Other times youll meet enemies which will wait until they see an open spot in your 
 defense in order to attack. Theyll also use equipment with poisonous or magical effects like your 
 character ( life shields that can drain your life if you hit them etc.) + the archers will use 
 their swords if you come next to them. The AI is very well implemented and you get a nice feeling 
 of satisfaction each time that you manage to defeat another nasty enemy. Youll have to use your 
 brain and your reflexes in order to survive ( Hint: when you have the chance, try to sneak up on 
 your enemies. Its fun and very rewarding since you can kill them with one hit and pick up their 
 shields in undamaged form ) . .
  
  However there are a few things in this title that needed a little bit of tweaking. First of all 
 the camera can become a bit disorienting especially in the indoor environments. There is a lock-on 
 feature in the title thats helpful when the camera is in the right position. Sometimes it wasnt 
 and the camera control was less than satisfying. .
  
  Another drawback is the lack of adjusting the difficulty setting. The game is already very challenging 
 and there are times that things can become really hectic (especially during the later stages) . 
 Having the option of downgrading the difficulty would be a nice choice (the game is mostly for 
 the hardcore audience without this option) . .
  
  The fighting system is really unique , however it has its shortcomings. You need to remember lots 
 of combinations and buttons and more importantly to find the right pace in key-hitting in order 
 to perform the special attacks (if your weapon turns red and the enemy glows red after your strike, 
 youll know that you have just performed a special attack successfully) . It needs lots of practice 
 and sometimes it isnt as accurate as it should be (this control scheme would fit better to a consoles 
 controller than the keyboard of the PC) . Whats more during all those lengthy button combinations 
 your character (and not only your enemy) sometimes will change position (you have to press many 
 times the directional buttons for a powerful combo) and as a result in your final blow youll miss 
 your target exposing yourself for no reason. .
  
  Another aspect of the title that is underdeveloped is the RPG leveling-up system. Yes its ok as 
 long as it lasts. However after level 20 (youll reach it towards the end of the game) the only 
 thing that happens is life restoration (no improvement in hit points, stamina etc.) . Now there 
 will be times when youll desperately need a few more experience points in order to level up and 
 see your opponents killing each other accidentally ( when they are too close this happens always) . 
 This means that you will lose valuable exp ( an enemy has to die from your weapon in order to gain 
 exp points) . On the other hand sometimes you can use this at your advantage, when for example you 
 are low on health or want to have some fun with the game. .
  
  The title is mostly about combat. There are a few jumping/ traps-avoiding sequences to make things 
 a bit more interesting. However the title is all-about killing enemies until you find the next 
 key or lever. This can become boring, especially after your first play ( you 've seen all the enemies 
 and know their attack patterns and weaknesses) and while you are replaying the title with another 
 character. The stages are very linear, the 4 different characters arent that well balanced (the 
 knight seems to have the most equipment and the best story, the barbarian is more powerful, the 
 Amazon more agile and the dwarf just... sucks) , controlling them seems and feels similar and you 
 have an experience that can become repetitive after a few hours. It would be nice to have a few 
 NPC helping you in your quest, or a town with people where you could sell and buy items and weapons 
 or a few nice objectives that would add variety in the game play. But no. There is nothing like 
 that in Blade of Darkness. .
  
  The last thing is related to my previous comment- thats really disappointing is the lack of a 
 proper story. With the exception of the knight (there is a basic story behind this character and 
 I suggest to play his campaign first) there is no major story in this game. Youll be fighting 
 and killing for just no reason. There is no motivation in your effort  you are fighting just for 
 surviving. And this really hurts the game play experience. Add to that the lack of variety in game 
 play and the linear environments and you have a title that feels soulless and empty during the 
 later stages. .
  
  Value  There are 13 different missions in the main campaign. Each character has a different starting 
 level (a nice differentiation) so there is a reason for trying each one at least once. However 
 the rest of the campaign is exactly the same. After completing some particular missions youll 
 have to choose between two different destinations, so the second time playing the title you can 
 finish the stages in a different order (you can have different weapons and fight at a different 
 level the same monsters so this feature makes the campaign easier or harder depending on your choices) . 
 There are also 6 runes hidden in 6 specific stages (some of them are hard to be found) . If you 
 collect them all youll gain access to a bonus level called The Abyss thats mostly an underground 
 mission with many hard to beat enemies (nothing new here) and a last boss that is a bit disappointing 
 in comparison to some of the games regular enemies or sub bosses. Finishing the game with all 
 the runes and seeing the best finale with the bonus Abyss stage took me about 40 hours. Now if 
 you really like the combat system of the title, youll want to replay the campaign with another 
 character so the game can hold your attention for many, MANY hours. This depends on your gaming 
 tastes. .
  
  There is also a multi player feature that is under developed. This game is all about the single 
 player experience.
  
  Final Thoughts  If you are a fan of hack-and-slash / action / fighting games Blade of Darkness 
 is a must  buy it may even become one of your all-time favorites. However if you are a gamer 
 that mostly enjoys RPGs and adventure titles or wants characteristics of the above genres in his 
 action games then youll be disappointed after a few hours. The excellent graphics, the unique 
 combat system and the low price of the title are reasons enough to make this game worth buying 
 though, despite its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vorlin
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I was kind of skeptical when I first bought this game but after spending one afternoon playing 
 it, I was hooked. Great graphics, good storyline that's rather simplistic but works, and the combat 
 is outstanding. Combos and different weapon styles just takes the cake and I thoroughly enjoyed 
 it and would recommend it to anyone looking for a good combat game. It's guaranteed to make you 
 lose countless hours playing! Games like this and Rune definitely are keepers...
  
  I would say that the only downside would be that occasionally there are some lockups and graphical 
 issues but outside of that, it's very workable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trivet
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  I spent many hours trying to understand full potential of this game, and even after 6 years i can't 
 do that. This game totally rocks and breaks the convention of hack &amp; slash games where most 
 of time we spent on clicking LMB. In BoD we must think to survive. Every action has a reaction, 
 so we must think when we fight. Our hero is build from flesh and bones so 2 reckless moves and 
 goblin can do a barbecue from our head. Enemies are wild beast who wants to spill last bead of 
 blood from your body. After 6 years graphics looks awfull, but physics and lights are still surprisingly 
 good. There are 18 levels and every of them is a great mysterious adventure. The most problem can 
 be difficult of this game. It is easy to learn how to move, but it is not easy to learn how to 
 fight...
  
  Anyway... I recommend this game to every ambitious player who loves h&amp; s. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dman2815
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 22, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  blades of darkness one word to describe it underrated with a cap u this game is great its has great 
 graphics for the year dat it came out in 2001 and it has great gameplay and kool weapons not a 
 lot of wepons but a good amount and each has a specail attack and you cant get any aromor witch 
 sucks but it doesnt matter and you can level up to level 19 and the game has 18 wicked long levels 
 and the game is differnt with each charcter theres the barbarian whos the best and then theres 
 the drawf and the knight and the amzon this game is fun and you can cut of ememies heads and legs 
 and arms and use them as wepons its so cool and the attacks are awesome and relastic you can dodge 
 and you slash and uppercut and all that and you can download it rite to ur comp for only 10 bucks 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grasan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  Blade of darkness is The Game , if you like fighting and chopping your enermy like there's no tomorrow. 
 I am a totaly hack-and-slash fan, and I can tell you there is no other game like this. And I don't 
 think there will be one in the next couple of years. So try it, and if after one hour of making 
 your way thru you enermies limbs and heads you can get up and walk away, you will have my respect, 
 because the first time I played it, i didn't lift my hands of the keyboard for more than 10 hours. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbobb23
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 9, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  So I was over reading people flame each other about how Dark Messiah would ahve better combat than 
 Oblivion (not a real accomplishment, mind you) and I thought - what was the name of that game I 
 once played, the greatest RPG combat game ever made? Oh yeah, Blade of Darkness. Still unequaled. 
 Still the champ. I think I am going to buy it again and play it again because this game was so 
 amazing. The combat is simply the most complex, most thrilling combat you can have. The controls 
 can be slightly difficult, but when you master them you will get the trill of doing amazing things.
 
  
  And the game is long and fun the whole way. I can't say enough good things about this game. I really 
 wish a sequel was being made somewhere. I would love to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovituralapizda
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 1, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  ... awesome graphics for it's year. Every level, music and all invoirement is different. Sound and 
 atmosphere are great and impress me even now. ok so.... the fighting style is ABSOLUTELLY INCREDIBLE, 
 the most realistic ever. every move is controlled by the player, not just click the enemy and wait 
 for them to start fighting... click and GO GET EM BLUE!!! ... no. this is different. all moves are 
 key+click for simple slashes, and them come the combos wich are like... OMFG. cool ok.... then comes 
 the severing.... u can chop off enemies to bits and pieces.... then its funny coz i pick up a limb 
 and throw it at anotehr creep and annoy him :) .
  storytelling is the only thing lacking in this game, and although you are allowed to choose the 
 location where you want to go almost all the time.... it's a little straight forward.
  
  i am too sleepy right now to mention other aspects.... the game is great. i played it over and over 
 and over and over and over..... and over 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdx
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 6, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  The game released in early 2001, made an impact on the action game players to act as a warrior 
 of the old style. 
  The weapon mastery is quite enjoyable and interesting to the end.
  The special weapons are really great.
  Character Classes are usual and good thing is that they 
 use less of a magical.
  Generally a good game for one to one close fight lovers.
  I used the sword class very often and found it amazing to learn new moves and enjoyed it very much.
 
  I am still looking for a game likely to compare this with.
  But still I cannot find one.
  Well, I am eager to learn the new moves all the game again and again.
  I also wish for its 2nd 
 edition or part II to quench my thirst for hack and slash fighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leptons
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 24, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  first of all, consider this game's age. it's been a long time, yet this game still has a lot to 
 offer.
  
  Graphics: it was good at the time it was released. Even when comparing to today's standard this 
 game still has incredible lightning+shadow and physics system. man, compating flaming skeletons 
 is amazing. You get to see the shadows moving as the flame moves.
  
  Sounds: dude, the sound is awesome!! when you are in a dark place, the music scares you. When you 
 are fighting bosses, the music is incouraging yet powerful
  
  Gamplay: this is wherre this game shines. I haven't yet seen another game with better combat styles 
 than this. 
  Imagine you are facing 3 death knights all equipped with top notch weapons and shields. The first 
 one approached and taunted you. You quickly take out your ice sword as a knight. The enemy hits 
 you couple times, you blocked em, then when you get the chances and timing you unleashes the most 
 powerful combo in game: northern light!! you hear your hero's battle cries and the ice sword leave 
 behind 4 special blue trails. all four attacks hit the target, the target grows white due to the 
 sword. It deals over an astonishing 10000 damage. the enemy's head is chopped off, blood falls 
 out, It leaves its final groan and the body helplessly falls on the ground. You carefully unleashes 
 a couple more northern lights, and all the enemies are killed. And let me tell you, timing ain't 
 easy if you are beginners. if you aimlessly keep hitting the enemy you will just get blocked and 
 counterattacked and die. But for experts, they can probably kill 10 enemies in a row without getting 
 hitted. (i've done that)
  
  MAN, I have never find such satisifaction in ANY other game!!!
  
  and to those who say this 
 game is hard. man, be real dude, this game requires skill. you need to learn it. learn how to dodge, 
 block according to different characters.
  
  barbarian: dodge obviously, just hit back and block at the same time
  zoe: easy dodge, she is 
 fast
  knight: gotta learn how to block
  dwarf: either block or dodge, depending on the situations
  
  I have played this games over 
 and over again over the 5 years. Why? i want more of that satifaction! killing enemies with powerful 
 super combos is a great way to relieve stress.
  
  Value: dude, you can probably get this game off e-bay or something for real cheap. I tell you that, 
 if you are tired of stupid rpg that requires no skill but time, or pointless FPS killings. Get 
 this game, trust me, you will not experience the kind of satisfaction any where else.
  
  Complaint: the only complain i have is.... the developer is gone. Man, this game truely is a gem.... 
 if there was a BOD2, it would've been the best game ever created.
  
  the only combat system that comes close is oblivion. Well, still BOD's combat is much better comparing 
 the two... However, oblivion has many other elements to offer.. 
  
  Conclusion: in this game, you feel powerful, you feel like you are the boss, you feel challenged, 
 you feel the gore, you feel the heroism, and in the end, it will leave you an unforgettable experience!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MIIB11
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 12, 2006 2:50 am PT
Review:  It is a very good game if you do not care about you brain, because for that much stress it might 
 explode. It is a very hard game, the camera sucks, you may get stuck in some cut scenes, in the menu 
 you have no mouse ( why is that? I do not know) . The video are good but not the best ( for that time 
 of course) . if you pass all that the game is a masterpiece. Even if you cut yourself, because you 
 are happy, you still play the game. If they worked a little harder on that this game was been one 
 of the best. The game is a rpg-hack&slash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaotiXTME
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 6, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This one almost made me puke. It's horrible.
  
  The animations look extremely amateur and artificial, just as the sounds (mainly the voices. The 
 narration at the beggining of the game made me laugh, and I believe it was supposed to be serious) . 
 The controls are keyboard-based and very little responsive. The graphics are ok; a bit dated now, 
 but that's no real problem. The AI didn't surprised me - actually, I didn't find it. The combat 
 system is boring and I'm pretty sure that, together with the controls, it can make Chuck Norris 
 cry. And the fun... what's that? Whatever it is, it's not in this game.
  
  Stay far, far away from this one, folks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeeMan9287
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of those games that other developers think about and feed off of for ideas. From 
 its fun storyline and interesting weapons and different characters, the game can easily make any 
 fan of this genre satisfied. 
  
  The first and best thing about this game at the time must be the fighting system. The game really 
 had the best moves out there. The game doesnt just require you to look and click, moving and staying 
 back while being aggressive makes the fighting a blast.
  
  The second "thing" on this game is the interesting weapons and looking forward to newer and bigger 
 armor. There are many many weapons that will excite you even if they suck, you just want to equip 
 and ginormous halbred to look tight.
  
  The story is captivating and youll find yourself about to retire for the night cuz youve already 
 played 4 hours of the game but what the hell i might as well see if i can kill this boss.
  
  This game is also one of the most challenging and strategy oriented games yet. im not lying, 
 this game forces you to play smart when you only have 1 potion left. The enemy is not slow or stupid. 
 The enemy is fast, smart, and sneaky. The worst thing is just traveling thru and you get domed 
 in the shoulder by some laughing skeleton (they dont really laff) . That pisses me off lol. 
  
  Just believe me. last time i checked its just 13.99 on gamespot for digital purchase. The game 
 has never been uninstalled on my comp and ive had it for 5 years. Try it out, and for god sakes 
 please be the Roman character. Hes got the coolest armor at the end.
  
  Happy Gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samisaround
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  I first found this game in a CD rental. Well, actually, I was spending my vacation doing nothing, 
 and then started to randomly pick CDs from the place. Never did I expect to get something as good 
 as that which has enchanted me for the past two years.
  
  This game was an ambitious project by Rebel Act and Codemasters. The mere fact that they could 
 release such a complex game is remarkable, with little resources. I picked from from an interview 
 that there isn't any other such Gaming industry in Spain.
  
  Blade of Darkness is one of the best examples of hack-and-slash gaming. One has whole control over 
 the character, which makes it way more involving. Which also lets you miss a slice slightly of 
 your opponents shoulder if you turn by even a small angle. The combos for the different attack 
 moves (though some are tedious) is quite fun. But yeah, you may not be able to do Tukaram's Great 
 Fire Sword's Volcano everytime. The weapons are done up well, but the character animation is a 
 major drawback.
  
  For a game release in 2001, it has great graphics. The line of slashes, the character details, 
 and the textures are quite impressive. The music and sound effects score high, too. The places 
 are beautiful, and the music matching.
  
  The greatest minus point is the weak storyline. Sometimes, you end up wondering what exactly you're 
 doing.
  
  In fact, a Blade of Darkness II (though not possible) with better character animation would be 
 a rating 10 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irs2k3
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  Simply unmatched game till today. Outstandingly awesome!
  
  I am still playing it till today and I have never felt it boring. The weapons, atmoshpere, level 
 design , gameplay all tweaked to perfection.
  
  It is just a game that come once every decade, I am dieing to see another severance game but Rebel 
 acts died and with that my dreams for a sequel has died too. 
  
  Again
  
  Simply unmatched game till today. Outstandingly awesome!
  
  I am still playing it till today 
 and I have never felt it boring. The weapons, atmoshpere, level design , gameplay all tweaked to 
 perfection.
  
  It is just a game that come once every decade, I am dieing to see another severance game but Rebel 
 acts died and with that my dreams for a sequel has died too. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: navsta3
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Totally under-rated. The game is a legend, the best of the best. You would never regret getting 
 the game for 40$. Now it's worth 5$. What are you waiting for? 
  Every level is completly different and stuffed with completly different traps, monsters, and awesome 
 weapons. The different music that's never played over and over again fits perfectly with the type 
 of level. Dodging in battle and using combos is of major help. Every sound effect is realistic, 
 like walking on snow or dropping a steel sword. The lighting effects have never been as good as 
 this, and probably won't be for a long time. Hey, come on; 5 years, yet still this game outscores 
 the newest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razor_bblade
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  I think this game is cool. It has well good gory deaths and there is lots of charachters too choose 
 from. There are loads of weapons and the story and levels are well good. The multiplayer is the 
 best because you get to create your own charachter too fight which is cool. I think that when you 
 get killed is pretty funny because you can get parts of your body cut off which i think is pretty 
 good. I think you should buy this game coz it will be cheap now and worth about 10! This is really 
 cheap and the game is worth alot. I only recomend it to teenagers or adults thought because it 
 is dead gory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ralithorn
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is a true classic. It has a fairly basic sub-plot for each of the games four characters. 
 Which then later branches out to the game main plot. Each character has a completely different 
 set of moves, weapons and armour sets. Some characters are far easier to play than others as well. 
 For example the barabarian can inflict massive damage when he hits but he is slow and lacks heavy 
 armour making him hard to play. Compared to the knight who can upgrade his armour three times and 
 use a shield. 
  
  The controls can all be completely remapped to however you want to set them. It can take a long 
 time to master the in game fighting mechanics. For example you can lock on a target by hitting 
 the default lock on key 'TAB' and to switch targets you can simply press the 'TAB' key again. But 
 to unselect your current target you need to press the default 'draw/sheath' weapon key. The game 
 isn't very forgiving to beginners either. Which can cause a lot of early frustration.
  
  The graphics and sound effects still look and sound good. The in game music is fantastic as is 
 the voice narriation. To date this is still one of the most gruesome and graphically violent games 
 you can play. You can hack of limbs, and heads. Blood spurts profusely from bodies and you can 
 hack up corpses if you are so inclined.
  
  The 1.01 patch helps to improve the camera controls which occassionally could get stuck depending 
 on the situation giving you a limited view in a hectic fight. 
  
  Driver issues under Windows XP. Nvida's drivers work fine. With older ATi drivers you needed to 
 hit the ESC key at just as the intro movie started, or the game would sometimes lock up. 
  
  In short if you are looking for a really fun and challenging medieval game that you can probably 
 buy for around $10.00. Look no farther!
  
  The camera works fairly well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Very little was heard about this game until a few months before release, the screenshots showing 
 a game with excellent graphics and a very standard third person view kind of look, but nothing 
 really else gripped you. It was just enough to gain my attention though and when the demo came 
 out I quickly installed it. 
  It didnt run particularly well on my system at the time and was frustratingly difficult at times. 
 Other people looked at the demo, and were immediately put off. But somehow I managed to see through 
 the bad points of the demo and enjoy it, and after reading a review in a magazine went out and 
 purchased the game regardless. This title certainly was a shocker as the game itself was far better 
 than the demo ever was or tried to show! And it really outshone itself in so many aspects. For 
 here was the game that was set to breathe some much needed life into the fantasy third person adventure 
 genre. 
  When you say third person adventure everyone immediately thinks Tomb Raider. Now that might not 
 be a bad thing if you like the series, but for people like myself who dont then why is Severance 
 going to make you change your mind on this genre? Especially as it features no guns and features 
 only hand to hand combat, something that has been attempted so many times before and failed so 
 miserably? Well after playing the game you quickly see why I highly rate this game, and eagerly 
 await a sequel, or a tide of new games using the same formula as Severance.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droges
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  A beautiful game that actually lets you beat your enemy with it's own arm.
  
  Graphics are great for even back in 2001. Shadows and physics are top notch.
  
  The levels 
 are detailed and the atmosphere is very freaky. I always play at night.
  -Great characters that cover all types of styles. Barbarian, Axe-weilding dwarf, ninja-girl, and 
 a well rounded knight. Each one, you will have to adept to their fighting style. The Barbarian 
 can but is not effect with shields for example.
  -Many weapons and shields to choose from. Bow and arrow, where you have to pick up your arrows 
 again.
  -The blood and damage effects are the best I have seen so far.
  
  The only real down side to this game is its controls. Its hard to just jump into, but once you 
 learn the difficult and perhaps clumsy controls it is so rewarding. And thats what a game should 
 be like. Not something that you can master in 1min. This takes time and patients and if you put 
 that time in, you will be rewarded with the most brutal, creepy journey that you have ever been 
 on before.
  
  Note: I noticed that some people mentioned that this is a 3rd person game. While this is mostly 
 true but if you're brave enough, you can try the 1st person view where you can see your sword and 
 arm. Extremely difficult to use this view, but will add a whole to graphic twist. 
  
  It saddens me that this game fell thru the cracks and did not get the recognition it deserved. 
 It is a true master piece.
  Only cons I can see:
  -lack of character development, lack of non playing character interaction. You are alone in your 
 gruesome quest.
  -controls are hard to pick up. A game pad may make it very good but then you loose out on the free 
 look.
  
  If I could make love to game. .. .. ohh god did I type that? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgsponer
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  I really think that Blade of Darkness is a unique game. First and last in the art of fencing. You 
 have to balance your character body to fight in a appropriate way, you have to develop the art 
 of "Touching without being touched", if you think you can go like a mad with a blade, you are dead. 
 I'm still waiting (in vain) for the second part with best graphics, new weapons and enemies. We 
 all know that BoD is a old game but if you like to fight against an orc "face to face" this is 
 the game you are looking for, no doubt about it, enjoy it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surym
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 17, 2005 1:43 pm PT
Review:  it twists my stomach every time i see someone rates it 7 or something, it's just not right to rate 
 a game that's got no competition in it's genre. there are two games that try to do justice to melee 
 combat, the first, Die by the sword, being too ephemeral to succeed. comparing it to other hack'n 
 slash fantasy action, like rune, is pointless, since the combat part in the former was reduced 
 to tapping mouse buttons fast enough. the story of BoD is they had an idea of cool combat system 
 and built a game around it. so it's all about melee, and one just can't tell how cool it it unless 
 he tries. BoD is just plain gore fest, killing opponents with sharp, heavy metal objects elevated 
 to the level of art. you'd be surprised how you'd start to love the sight of blood stains on walls 
 and floors, soaking the hot desert sand, or cold caps of snow. running down cold stone walls and 
 pavements. squirting with funny sound out of a neck, where just a moment and one swing of a sword 
 ago the head of a villain needing punishment used to be. the engine of blood is so good and realistic 
 it's still unrivalled in modern titles, and u cant tell how cool it is to implement real fountains 
 of blood in game unless you see it. you'll find yourself replaying the game again and again just 
 to experience more of it, you'll be arranging situations where it would look more picturesque, 
 like chopping few enemies to pieces with cleanly executed powerful combo in one place, like staircase, 
 and letting their heads, corpses, legs and arms roll down the stairs along with streams of blood. 
 that's the sight that's hard to forget. wanna see a guy resembling a hedgehog because of number 
 of arrows you just put in his back? the guy leans through the wall, the streams of blood start 
 to flow down the stone wall and colour the snow at the base of the wall bright red. u can almost 
 feel it melt, and slowly freezing afterwards. i know it sounds almost sick, but the game is about 
 it, and if one tries it out, he'll understand the point exactly :) heck! i'm installing it again 
 ang going to go through it for... 20th time? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Levoth
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:08 pm PT
Review:  The first I played this game I found it really boring, but the game is interesting as the first 
 of the type. Blade of Darkness is an action game with many RPG aspects such as weapons, armor, magic 
 and other stuff. It isn't the best action game in the world, but as the first game of the type 
 I considere that Blade of Darkness indeed. The graphics are functional, they aren't anything that 
 surprises but it's indeed good to see what the animations, cut scenes and lightining effects and 
 other stuff do to the game. The sound is full of sound effects such as sound of an river nearby 
 or a heavy armor of guard shaking in the ground... things like this. But the music itself isn't 
 good enough. The gameplay is very intuitive but it lacks a little bit of hotkeys to acess weapons 
 and itens in great battles. The storyline is the worst point of the game and the main character 
 is very very boring... But it is good to play this game because it was the first action game with 
 a medieval theme. But if you don't like it prefer Shadow of The Colossus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:01 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was very terrfic and very terrifying at times.
  There was alot of action going on and lots of challenging battles to fight.
  I had a lot of hard 
 times fighting the demons and creatures of the night, but when swinging my sword, i felt like i 
 was the BOSS.
  
  It had stunning graphics with richly detailed fantasy worlds. It also had real time lighting casts, 
 eerie music and terrifiying shadows to look out for.
  
  The enemies were superb with lots of traditional melee combats and techniques being swung at you.
 
  
  You had a choice of 3 characters to choose from,
  
  Dwalf, - Big AXE
  Warrior, Big SWORD
  Sexy Elf woman. Sexy BOW.
  
  The arena's had plenty of traps, which you 
 had to look out for,
  Spikes, arrors, pits, flames, wall crushing, roof caving in on you, chain-saw blades sliceing out 
 of the wall, and above that, you had demons preveing you from passing.
  
  Very challenging game and very intractive game play.
  If you've not played it, then i would say 
PLAY ITorMiss Out !! ". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doggy47perfecto
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 30, 2005 6:46 am PT
Review:  This game basically started my love for pc gaming. i got this back when it was released ( i think 
 '01 ) and i still think it is an astonishing accomplishment . rebel act studios created an innovatiove 
 and immersive fantasy action hack amd slash game that sucked you in to the world they had created. 
 then they encouraged you to hack it to pieces with big ass swords ;) . the weaponry is amazing in 
 this game, massive axes, hammers clubs, swords, spears, bows, enemies limbs ( yes you can kill 
 enemies with body parts) . the game is also quite epic. it takes somewhere in the region of 30 hrs 
 to complete first time around and with 4 different characters to play as the replayability is good 
 too. gamespot couldnt be more wrong in their review of this game. this deserves at least a 9.5. 
 it is quite frankly a classic action game that any pc gamer should at least try out.
  
  masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 2:35 am PT
Review:  ohhhh boy what can i say about this game well its not a Bad Hack and slash its just the fact it 
 gets so Repetitive have about half and hour of playing you get 4 characters to play as A Knight 
 a Dwarf An Amazon and a Barbarian now i think the barbarian is the main character who knows the 
 Character development is like my A** and the story is as lame as it can be you know nothing about 
 what your doing untill after like a quartar into the game. and whats the point in the first Couple 
 of missions NOTHING!! theres just no point to them. and the combos names for the dwarf are all 
 mixed up as well as the weapons. The Online please please dont let me explaine The online Sucks 
 why theres nobody on it and aprt from that its just a sucky DM with a charcter what was not even 
 in the game. But put all that away the Graphics are good for its time. with the lighting effects 
 and the shadows are very realistic and the water same again very realistic. And thos game has an 
 18+ for a reason the amount of gore in this game is sweet You can chop legs of Goblins and smack, em 
 with it. You can chop heads of. its so great The detail on some of the characters are sharp I like 
 the Wide selection of monsters in the game like demon knights and zombies and Goblins Orks. The 
 weapons in the game are cool you get swords sheilds axes spears maces Bows armour Two handed swords 
 one handed swords. so theres a lot of weapons in the game. and the combot is nice like i said beofre 
 Borning at times but fun. Sound is creepy and music goes with every part of the game. The story 
 is lame but fun If you have no game to play then this is for you its a standard Hack and slash. 
 its only worth your money if youy pay less than 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gilillo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 8, 2005 8:19 am PT
Review:  Blade of darkness, is a game that have passed almost unobserved, but in my opinion the game is 
 huge. Maybe its week points are the big difficulty to defeat some enemies and to end some puzzles, 
 but when you reach so much ability there are no enemy that you can not defeat.
  
  The graphics are really great, but not amazing. The illumination and the physics of the objects 
 is the best that BOD have. You just need to throw a sword or turn on a torch to appreciate it, 
 they are incredible; except some bugs that should not decrease its value as some wrote on some 
 reviews.
  
  The best of the game: the face to face fights, and the history. Just need a few minutes to understand 
 the controls and that's it, go ahead, learn combos, find better weapons, increase your level and 
 defeat all enemies. The game is not a "keyboard-destroyer", you really need to be patient when 
 you attack one or several enemies, or a powerful one. Each enemy has a way to defend, and a way 
 to attack you, but the interesting is when you have several enemies of different kinds at the same 
 time. 
  
  The history is great, immersed in an ambient like "Lord of the Rings" with that same mystique; 
 you are in a big quest for the sword that you need to defeat the lord of destruction, and for this 
 quest you will travel to multiple scenarios with great views (really really great) . You can choose 
 for each campaign one of four heroes: a knight, a barbarian, a dwarf and an Amazon. But each one 
 of them have a particular attack and defend techniques, combos and weapons. And you will develop 
 your own techniques for each one.
  
  The worst of the game is the multiplayer option. With this difficulty should be great to have help 
 from other players in Internet to finish the game. But still, this game is really incredible.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck753
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 6, 2005 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game when it first came out and my system at the time had diffuculty keeping up with 
 it, and there were some bugs that needed working out, but I still had fun with it. A lot of fun. 
 I pulled this title back down from my shelves several months ago and installed it on my newer P4 
 system, and it is sweet! I played through it greedily, and went online and downloaded some of the 
 excellent mods that were made available: particularly gratifying is the "Gladiator" mod that lets 
 you play single player deathmatch through advancing levels.
  
  No other hack-and-slash game has this kind of feel and gameplay. It is truly satisfying to time 
 a devastating, complicated combo attack so the master-stroke just sneaks in under your opponent's 
 guard, or to execute a flurry of moves through a crowd of foes, limbs flying and blood spurting. 
 And nothing is more frustrating and infuriating than getting put on the ropes by an attacker, momentarily 
 stunned and sluggish while you get chopped to flinders (some AI attackers are a little predictable, 
 others are quite good, all are capable of catching you off guard and making you pay) .
  
  When the fan contingent puts out mods for a game to the extent that they did for this one, it tells 
 you something. The game is still popular and still looks great, and is a damn sight better than 
 most of the all-flash-no-substance games coming out today, many of which are merely showcases for 
 new graphics technology. I could only wish the studio which put out this game were still in business, 
 merrily working away on sequels. Alas, it is not to be. This classic, at least, is here for the 
 enjoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0TuKaRaM0
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 19, 2005 6:45 am PT
Review:  With no doubts a good money spent when buying it! the game its a litle old but you will not judge 
 him for that couse is not only graphics that matters but gameplay ;) just love it like i do :) . 
 i loved the enviroments the sounds are very good! and envolves you in the game and the caracthers 
 models are very good (barbarian Tukaram my favorite :P) you can slice your enemies and hot them 
 with theirs limbs! ligths and shadows are very good too! but the best its the system inovating 
 dynamic blood that you can't see in most part of games that act just like texture. but the most 
 interisting its the secrests of the game some hard to find and the difficulty of the game depends 
 on the times you save if you save always you do sometingh you will have to lead with more and stronger 
 enemies but if you save rarely you will feel more easy to pass the game, but not so easy :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeeemadudbomb
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2005 5:27 am PT
Review:  I picked this up for about 10$ at the futureshop, cause nobody else had it. I get alot of cheaper 
 games over newer ones, cause what would you rather have, 3 games or 1? Anyways, I always look for 
 Gruesome games so as soon as I played the demo, I knew I was Going to buy it on the weekend {and 
 it was MONDAY! That was a torturous wait.} The graphics are still good compared to games that are 
 out now, like half-life 2 and Doom 3. The water effects can almost match Half-Life 2, It just doesn't 
 reflect objects. And shadows are real time, you can carry a torch and your shadow is displayed 
 perfectly. You can even move closer to the light source and your shadow grows! That's pretty good 
 for a 1999 year game. Oh yeah, I forgot the physics. These can compare to Painkiller. Unbelieveably 
 well implentented physics means you can throw things, dismembered limbs roll, spin bounce like 
 they should, wood splinters well and thrown weapons bounce off the walls and floor until skidding 
 to a halt. How'd the developers pulled this off in the year they did, Who knows. Play the demo 
 and see for yourself. 
  
  At this time computers could not handle a game like this. This was the ultimate graphics for it's 
 time, nobody saw anything better that was out. But you needed a pimp machine to play it, so it 
 never got the coverage it should have. Very Underrated.
  
  Now for what you clicked into this review for! I'll explain the gibs in detail don't worry. You 
 can chop off hands, forearms, upper arms, feet, lower legs, thigh and heads. Blood goes on the 
 ground. It gushes out of a severed appendage along with the part that just got sliced off. When 
 an enemy is in his death animation you can keep cutting him up, and even when he's on the ground 
 you keep chopping if your a sadist. If you enjoy throwing things, break off an arm and beat a guy 
 with it. Then throw it into somebodies face if you like. Like solder of fortune you can put guys 
 through alot of pain. Cuts appear in the place you slice. There has been so many good times where 
 a guy is in the middle of his animation and I kept chopping things off. Poor guy. One last thing 
 I should mention: No combos. You get 5 attacks, pressing attack, or presing attack in conjunction 
 with a movement key. {WASD uparrow etc.} You can make you're own combos life this. I didn't count 
 an unsheathing attack where you grab your weapon out of it's pouch and slice, because that isn't 
 a move that is made into combos. It's basically a first strike move. Also throwing weapons I didn't 
 count as an attack, but It's there and It's damaging. You can dodge, use sheilds, one handed weapons 
 and carry a sheid, two handed weapons and block using the actual weapon. There's too much, I can't 
 go on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Freeman
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 19, 2004 9:03 am PT
Review:  Remember the Barbarian game on commodore 64/128? Many of you kids dont, but as I was younger, I 
 dreamt of a game based on the famous head-slicer muscleguy CONAN. Well, dream no more 20-something 
 gamers, this is it.
  Strong points this game has? Many, starting with the graphics. 
  They are amazing, even more compared to other titles of the same year. This one is a graphical 
 gem for the age it was made. Realistic lighting, textures, and amazing physics makes this one a 
 pleasure to play with. Sometimes you can just stop and gaze at the wonder that is the water reflection 
 (for the time being, since wreflection was new when this one was released) and sometimes I would 
 just grab a torch, go to an inclined bridge, and drop it there, just to see the consumed torch 
 how it would roll realistically well down the bridge. The ambientation on this game is like nothing 
 else you've ever seen.
  The gameplay in my opinion, is amazingly well balanced, and yet really challenging. Many weapons 
 to choose from, the ability to throw them to your opponents, and many upgrades and power ups.
 
  The sound is nothing but great, with a few almost no noticeable glitchs here and there, which 
 doesnt really affect the gameplay.
  What it does affect the gp however, is the level design, which is a bit ankward and confusing. 
 Its glitched areas often leaves you wonder where you should go, or what you should be supposed 
 to do, which cuts the gameplay mood to half.
  Amazing game, with just one big cut on the middle, as it were made by a sword, which sometimes 
 makes it hard to feel the game a fluid experience.
  Even though, this one is a classic and should be in everyone's collector shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2004 12:47 pm PT
Review:  All 3D games ever made have struggled with presenting enjoyable melee combat. In that respect, 
 Blade of Darkness is very special, for the entire game has been built around melee combat, and 
 built well. Fighting in BOD seems to have a certain rhythm and solidity to it, mainly because after 
 starting a certain move your characters feet participate too, so you cannot just run away in any 
 direction with your sword still swinging like in most other games. Standing your ground requires 
 learning how to fight: besides learning the combos, well-timed dodging, parrying and shield blocking 
 are all necessary. Dodging and hitting can both be done with mouse, simply by holding down the 
 right or left button and swinging the mouse to the side. Add keyboards direction keys with correct 
 timing and you have a mean selection of combos, all of which are also nicely listed in the console 
 help menu. The learning curve might seem a bit daunting at first, but the developers do a good 
 job of introducing new combos and abilities at a steady rate. Of the four characters you can choose 
 to play with, two practice long range (Amazon, Barbarian) and two close combat styles (Dwarf, Knight) . 
 All characters have universal moves plus the character- and weapon-specific moves, which the player 
 will gain in the course of the game (e. g. Barbarian can do character-specific combos with two handed 
 swords and axes such as deathdealer, and anybody with a longsword can do a hellswing) . Since all 
 character look different, their combos have different animations (and patterns) . By killing one 
 gets experience points, which enable to unlocking new weapons and combos. Oh, and if you are wondering 
 what Severance means in the games title why, of course, it is the severance of the limbs! :) 
 The tremendous gore is for many players the main reason to play BOD. To illustrate the point, here 
 is a quote from avid player Gedas: Imagine giving a lethal strike to an orc; as it is wandering 
 mortally wounded, not yet falling down, you turn around gracefully and cut his head off  it flies 
 to the side, and the body falls down. There is a short time window for this move, but I found myself 
 trying to behead the enemies in style all the way throughout the game, just because it looks so 
 cool. BOD has become known for enabling to take dead enemies' limb and use it to club the alive 
 ones, but thatdoes not look nearly as satisfying as the above-mentioned beheading. Besides the 
 great animation, BOD also features nice lighting effects (picture) , shadows from the torch playing 
 dynamically on the walls look spectacular. Also, the game environment lets to bash chests, barrels, 
 doors, and throw rocks, but that does not seem to add significanty to the game as the non-combat 
 activity can be best characterized by constant and tedious key-searching and exploration. Locations 
 of Blade of Darkness feature places like mine, medieval castle or frozen keep surroundings. There 
 are too many corridor fights, according to Gedas the swinging camera and stumbling against the 
 walls is not too fun while fighting, he would like at least an easy strafe-move to position oneself 
 best in the middle of the corridor. The list of flaws in BODs design as discovered by Gedas goes 
 on, although that should be seen as a testament to the ambitious scope of the game, not as a reasoning 
 of why this game is not fun, because it is. To sum up, producing a game with totally enjoyable 
 melee combat is still by large a work in progress, but Blade Of Darkness is a great, and definitely 
 not the last, step in that direction. (thanks Gedas!)
  
  17/20 - Based on : 1 HOUR
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - Good lights, well-working animations, well-implemented melee combat. 
 
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY - Melee combat is rather complicated but is taught step-by-step.
  2/4 PACING - Too much keysearching and lots of fighting - then again this game is mainly for those 
 who enjoy melee combat.
  4/4 INNOVATION - Melee, beating opponents with their own limbs :) .
  3/4 IMMERSION - It's very 
 much there, except when it gets repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 16, 2004 3:45 am PT
Review:  Blade of Darkness is a surprisingly well-made and long single player action combat game with huge 
 levels. The graphic engine still looks great after 5 years. But more importantly the combat is 
 great. There are around 10 weapons for each of the 4 characters. Each weapon wields very differently 
 and many of the weapons have special combos that you can try to master. Each of the four characters 
 is quite different -- one is slow but powerful, another uses shields well, and another uses a bow 
 much better than the others. 
  
  The level design really stands out. They are often quite large and there are usually a few different 
 ways to tackle each level. Many levels have secret areas that are not easy to find, but offer some 
 cool stuff if you can find them all. The real-time shadows and fog effects lend a great moodiness 
 to the whole game.
  
  There is virtually no plot -- its all combat all of the time. That's fine with me.
  
  There 
 is one problem though. Melee combat defines most of the game and about halfway through you will 
 start battling multiple foes at once. This isn't a big problem unless you are fighting really powerful 
 multiple foes. If you use the "auto-lock" option you can hit one enemy but using that option often 
 leaves you wide open to a devastating hit from the other enemy. If you dont use the lock-on option, 
 it is not at all easy to hit your foes with a solid blow when you are surrounded. So you die, load 
 the game and try again. The "special combo moves" help in these situations but the fun-factor goes 
 down a notch. Basically, the combat interface doesn't handle multiple foes very well. 
  
  Also, some levels are simply more fun than others.
  
  Not many games age this well: check out 
 the screen pics. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nova
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 1, 2003 11:51 pm PT
Review:  I have upgraded my system again and this time I put in 120 Gbyt HD, 512Mb memory, GForce 3, DVD 
 player, 2Ghz Athlon and Windows XP as OS. And what do you think I put on it as one of my first 
 games (again) , yup you guest it, Blade of Darkness. Even after 2 and a half years, it still is a 
 gorgeous game. The graphics are still very good and the game play is still engrossing. I am not 
 you would call a good player. I can get distracted and bored very quickly of a game, but this is 
 one that still grabs me every time and won't let got until I got a massive overdose. 
  It isn't perfect of cause, the controls are hard to master and in the heat of the fight won't do 
 everything you wish it should do.
  But this game is still the best of the it's kind. Seen a good fantasy film, read a good fantasy 
 book, want to do some of it yourself, then look if you can find a copy of Blade of Darkness and 
 do some open heart surgery. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
