-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blair Witch Volume 1: Rustin Parr
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/blairwitchvolume1rp/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 27, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.2, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 168 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: G. O. D.
Developer: Terminal Reality
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Sep 30, 2000

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rustin Parr won't take you very long to finish, but it will give you a few good scares along the 
 way. 

 The filmmakers behind The Blair Witch Project created a lengthy and involved history regarding the 
 mysterious goings-on in Burkittsville (also known as Blair) , Maryland. Of the many supernatural 
 events they concocted, the creepiest is the story of Rustin Parr. According to the fictional tale, 
 seven children disappeared from Burkittsville during the early 1940s. In 1941, a hermit named Rustin 
 Parr left his house in the forest, walked into town, and said to a local shopkeeper, "I'm finally 
 finished." Six of the children were found murdered in Parr's basement; one child, Kyle Brody, was 
 still alive and standing in the corner.   

  The story of Parr will be somewhat familiar to those who saw the film. Parr's house was the site 
 of the final scene, and it's the key to the film's cryptic ending. The murders are also the subject 
 of Blair Witch Volume 1: Rustin Parr, the first entry in Gathering of Developers' three-game Blair 
 Witch series.   

  The game was developed by Terminal Reality, whose Nocturne tread similar ground. In fact, Rustin 
 Parr is a sort of sequel to Nocturne. It uses the same engine and the same characters. You play 
 Elspeth "Doc" Holliday, who was only a bit player in Nocturne but gets the starring role in Rustin 
 Parr. Holliday is an agent of Spookhouse, a government agency set up to investigate the supernatural, 
 and she is sent to Burkittsville to see if there is any truth to Parr's claims that he was under 
 the influence of otherworldly forces when he committed the murders.   

  It's a good premise, and the pairing of the Spookhouse agents with the Burkittsville legend seems 
 like a perfect match. And, for the most part, it works. Rustin Parr manages to pack in some really 
 scary moments. However, as in Nocturne, the reliance on gunplay and monster killing takes away 
 from the more subtle tone of the game. The Resident Evil-like monster infestations in Blair Witch 
 Volume 1 seem out of place. The game - like the film - is at its scariest when there is merely 
 the suggestion that something supernatural is afoot. When it's blatant, it just gets silly.   

 
  Before heading to Burkittsville, you must go through a training session. Here, all of the Nocturne 
 engine's shortcomings are in full effect. The shifting third-person perspective can make the combat 
 frustrating and difficult, as in most every other games of this type since Alone in the Dark. The 
 designers have but one suggestion: Find a better camera angle when fighting. This is actually a 
 "technique tip" in the training mission, and it makes you wonder why the designers didn't follow 
 their own advice and replace "fighting" with "designing."   

  This tip actually won't work when combat becomes constant later in the game, as moving to a new 
 location simply means finding more enemies and a potentially worse angle to fight from. Moreover, 
 the game's auto-aim feature in inconsistent, and it's hard to keep a bead on incoming adversaries. 
 Luckily, combat is an optional element throughout most of the game, perhaps unintentionally. It's 
 quite easy to just avoid most enemies altogether and run past them. You'll have a huge train of 
 undead beasts on your tail as a result, but not fighting them can save you some trouble.   

  Rustin Parr picks up once the training mission is over, when Holliday goes to Burkittsville and 
 begins investigating. There's more of an adventure element in Rustin Parr than there is in Nocturne, 
 and Holliday keeps excellent notes so that you stay on track. However, this adventure element isn't 
 very pervasive, and you'll probably wish you could interact more with the townies, but you'll still 
 get a good deal of interesting history and friend-of-a-friend anecdotes about the evil that lurks 
 in the woods.    

 The first chapter ends with a strange sequence that is among both the game's best and worst. The 
 townsfolk all become floating demons reminiscent of The Evil Dead, and you need to destroy them 
 all. It's your first taste of combat since the training, and it's some of the only gunplay you'll 
 actually be required to engage in over the course of the game. But what's most interesting about 
 the sequence is how it ends: It has two endings. The first of these is really terrifying, and it 
 seems to send the game hurtling in an interesting direction. Then you'll get the real ending, which 
 lessens the shock of what you've just seen.   

  Your first trip into the Black Woods is a lengthy maze sequence that requires you to find Rustin 
 Parr's house and a landmark called Coffin Rock. Not much happens, and you'll doubtless get a bit 
 frustrated as you wander through the woods. Get used to it: Each time you enter the woods (and 
 you go there quite often) you'll need to navigate the maze again. These treks through the woods 
 can be tiring, as the constantly shifting angle makes navigating in a single direction difficult. 
 Even with the compass activate, you'll often find yourself running in exactly the wrong direction. 
   

  Once you find Parr's house, you'll get a good sense of how scary the game can be. Because of its 
 great lighting and shadow-rendering capabilities, the Nocturne engine is excellent for creating 
 atmosphere. And Parr's house is a perfect example - you'll keep thinking you see subtle flashes 
 of things in the darkness that may or may not have been there, and it's really creepy.   

  The rest of the game consists of traveling from Burkittsville to the woods, as you learn more and 
 more about what is really lurking out in the forest. The story is interesting although a bit convoluted. 
 And there's a temporal shifting in the woods that is used effectively, if not frequently enough. 
 The monsters (which become more and more abundant in the woods as the game goes on) mostly consist 
 of undead animals and humans, though the weird, shambling stick bundles you'll also encounter are 
 somewhat scary. But for a game that evokes its major scares with subtlety, it's strange that your 
 first major monster encounter would be with a big, invisible scorpion.   

  The endgame sequence is fun but a bit of a letdown. You won't have to do much, and at one point 
 the game takes over, and you just watch. It's a pretty tense sequence, but it seems relatively 
 easy compared with some of the trickier parts of the game. The best part comes just before the 
 end, when you must execute a series of puzzles that are both interesting and original. It's a great 
 sequence, and seemingly every time you think it's over, there's one more thing you have to do. 
 Rustin Parr would have been a more consistently fun game if this type of puzzle solving had been 
 more prevalent.   

  The game looks good, though some of the human character models are a bit awkward and the constant 
 flowing effect of their coats looks somewhat unnatural. But the great shadow effects and the desolate 
 appearance of the town and the woods all help add to the creepy atmosphere. The sound does a good 
 job of adding to the atmosphere as well: The often-hammy voice acting is immediately noticeable, 
 though the voices of both Holliday and her colleague, Nocturne's protagonist, The Stranger, are 
 great. The game even has two excellent puzzles that require you to analyze sounds on a tape recorder. 
 And both The Sixth Sense and The Exorcist before it proved that a tape recorder can be a very scary 
 device.   

  Although it is inconsistent, Rustin Parr is fun. The good parts make slugging through the mediocre 
 combat worthwhile. The atmosphere is great, and though it may just be because of the long shadows 
 and dark corners, it still works. Rustin Parr won't take you very long to finish, but it will give 
 you a few good scares along the way.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JohnnyGnote
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 10, 2009 1:03 am PT
Review:  This game is a wanna be version of Resident Evil meets Culpa Innata. Not worth the time unless 
 you have an older system and can't play the newer games. The story seems ok but has nothing to 
 do with the original Blair Witch story, looks like someone was trying to cash in on the flash in 
 the pan fame, of the not so good movie. In other words you take a mediocre movie and try to make 
 a game from it and you get a mediocre game. The graphics are choppy and block like and resemble 
 the old school arcade games. Of course this is a game from the year 2000 and a lot has happened 
 in 9 years. I have Culpa Innata and Resident Evil, Blair Witch seems to be a foreunner of this 
 type of role playing puzzle solving zombie fighting walk through rooms and buildings and woods 
 games. I guess there has to be a beginning for this type of game and Blair Witch seems to be old 
 school enough to be that beginning. If you have an older system and your graphics card isn't big 
 enough to play the games I've mentioned or other recent games then this could be worth your time. 
 There would have been a time when I would have thought this was a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 31, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who was alive in 1999 remembers the "Blair Witch Project", the so-called documentary about 
 an evil witch that lurks in the woods outside the town of Burkittsville, Maryland. "Blair Witch: 
 Rustin Parr" is based on said movie, and tells the story of Rustin Parr, a man who murdered 7 children 
 in 1941, just outside of Burkittsville. Parr's story is mentioned in the movie, but just as a side 
 note. The game dives deeper into the Blair Witch world, trying to explain some of the supernatural 
 phenomena that occur in "The Black Woods".
  
  Doctor Elspeth Holliday is sent by "Spookhouse", a secret government agency which deals with the 
 supernatural, to investigate Parr's claims about a witch that told him to murder the children, 
 and to find out if there is anything unnatural about the woods surrounding the town. The name "Elspeth 
 Holliday" maybe familiar to anyone who played the game "Nocturne", which is a sort of prequel to 
 "Rustin Parr", back in 1999.
  As the story begins, Holliday arrives in Burkittsville a few days after Parr's trial and soon starts 
 to unravel the dark history of the town and the surrounding forest. Throughout the game, Holliday 
 is exposed to more and more legends and folklore about the forest, even some that were not covered 
 in the movie.
  
  "Rustin Parr" is composed of two main types of gameplay: investigation and combat.
  While inside 
 the town limits, Holliday will refuse to carry weapons, and the gameplay mostly consists of talking 
 to the town's people and gathering clues about recent events and local legends. Once Holliday leaves 
 to town and enters the forest, she is forced to protect her life by fighting off all kinds of monstrosities. 
 There are four types of weapons in the game: a sort of cattle prod (and other melee weapons) , a 
 standard pistol, a rifle with a silencer, and finally a solar gun, which creates a powerful beam 
 of light (it's the only weapons that can harm specters) . The combat itself is pretty simple. Every 
 gun has a laser sight, and an auto-aim option that can be turned on and off (for extra challenge) . 
 Each monster can take about 2-4 shots from the rifle, and 6-8 shots from the pistol.
  Speaking of monsters, "Rustin Parr" has them all. From zombies to demon dogs, and even the occasional 
 specter, the woods outside Burkittsville are filled with all kinds of supernatural beings, waiting 
 to devour anyone who is foolish enough to wonder the woods after dark, alone.
  
  As Holliday travels through the forest, she will get to visit some locations mentioned (and seen) 
 in the movie. Amongst said locations are Coffin Rock and Rustin Parr's residence (a place where 
 the player gets to see a little homage to the movie) .
  
  The graphics in "Rustin Parr" are pretty much what one comes to expect from a game build on the 
 "Nocturne" engine. Lots of shadows and overall darkness, coats and other clothing flapping in the 
 wind and character faces look like someone ran them over with a truck. Yes, the character faces 
 are pretty awful up close; the mouth hardly ever moves when they talk, and they never seem to blink. 
 Monsters look better then most of the human characters, but tend to repeat themselves quite often. 
 There are about four types of common enemies, but each type has a distinct look to it. All zombies 
 look the same, and every demon-dog you encounter looks exactly like the one you killed five seconds 
 ago.
  Another flaw of the "Nocturne" engine is evident with the camera angles. Those who played old-school 
 survival horror games, like the "Resident Evil" series, are probably already used to the fixed 
 camera angles and the constant shifting from one scene to the other, but "Rustin Parr" takes the 
 broken camera problem to a whole new level. The training mission at the beginning of the game can 
 be a deal-breaker for anyone who can't stomach the frustrating combat and dodgy camera. The sound 
 is the best atmosphere-creating element in the game. Yes, the woods are dark and confusing to navigate, 
 giving you the feeling that the path keeps changing under your feet (which actually happens at 
 certain points) , but the background music and sound effects are what really adds the extra scare 
 factor. The voice acting in the game is superb; every character sounds just the way it should, 
 down to the tone of voice and range of emotions.
  
  In conclusion, "Blair Witch: Rustin Parr" is a fun and scary game, with maybe a bit too much action 
 sequences for its own good. The investigation portion of the game, with great puzzles and decent 
 storytelling, makes the game a worthwhile, if a bit short, experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillyhox
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 22, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Set in 1941, this is the first adventure that puts a special government investigator named Doc 
 Holliday against the evil that made Rustin Parr abduct and slay seven children in Burkittsville, 
 Maryland. Which you have to interact with people from the town, investigate the legend and rituals. 
 Parr combines adventure, exploration, research, and puzzle soving. This game will have a great 
 impact on you if you have seen the movie. Even though it may be a cheesy one. But it is the first 
 of three so you can always give the others a try. This is the beginning of the Blair Witch Trilogy 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgindles
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2004 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Like many people, I got caught up in the Blair Witch Project craze when it came out. Though I didn't 
 really care for the movie, I enjoyed the concept and the overall storyline. So I picked up this 
 series on a whim. I was not disappointed.
  The folks at Terminal Reality, who created Nocturne, took the helm of this title. In fact, two 
 of the main characters from Nocturne feature in this game: you play the entire game as Doc Holiday, 
 meeting up with the Stranger at the end. The play control is virtually identical to Nocturne.
 
  The storyline is quite good and seeks to explain much of the Blair Witch, while at the same time, 
 raising new questions about the witch and the geographic area as well. In one particularly interesting 
 sequence, various timelines converge at one place and the gamer is treated to a different outlook 
 on the famous ending to the first movie.
  While the story is interesting, the gameplay isn't always. Not really much of an action game, it 
 doesn't exactly fall into the puzzle genre as well. There are certainly times when you must fight 
 off demons, and you'll also be scratching your head trying to discern clues at others, but much 
 of the game simply revolves around traveling from one area to another in search of clues, locations, 
 or people. This is one of the main drawbacks to the game. You'll spend much of your time running 
 back and forth through a long stretch of woods, with no real variety to keep you interested.
  The repetitiveness of this traveling also seeks to hide the game's other drawback: it's fairly 
 short. Most gamers should be able to finsih this game in sveral hours. At that point, the game 
 really does not have much replayability to it.
  As an added "bonus", the programmers at Terminal Reality have put in a couple of hidden features 
 that, while not really adding anything to the game, demonstrates their warped sense of humor. Put 
 a quarter in the jukebox, and the waitress will rip off her clothes and do a pole dance to the 
 song "Cherry Pie". There's even a code to allow you to play the entire game with Holiday completely 
 naked, if that's your thing.
  Overall, I'd recommend this game to fans of the movie. Most casual gamers won't have much of an 
 interest in it since it's really not adding much to the game market. I'd also recommend buying 
 the bargain priced trilogy as opposed to single volumes, so as to maximize your value. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
