-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blair Witch Volume 3: The Elly Kedward Tale
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/blairwitchvolume3tekt/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 22, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 5.9, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 100 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: G. O. D.
Developer: Ritual Ent.
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 21, 2000
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though the premise behind Blair Witch Volume 3 - being a witch-hunter who hunts the titular witch 
 - may seem intriguing, the game itself fails to deliver on all accounts. 

 Blair Witch Volume 3: The Elly Kedward Tale is an action-adventure game that's heavy on action and 
 light on adventure. In the game, you play as a character named Jonathan Prye - an 18th-century 
 witch hunter who uses flintlock pistols, muskets, and powerful magic artifacts to hunt evil spirits. 
 Unfortunately, Prye's adventures aren't anywhere near as exciting as they might sound because of 
 the game's poor control, its awkward camera angles, and its simplistic and repetitive story. That 
 is to say, Blair Witch Volume 3's story and adventure-game elements are so weak that they're negligible; 
 it instead relies heavily on action and combat - and thanks to the game's various problems, these 
 action sequences can be extremely frustrating.   

  Blair Witch Volume 3 is powered by the Nocturne engine - the same graphics engine that powered 
 both the previous Blair Witch games as well as last year's horror-themed game of the same name. 
 And as in the previous games, in Blair Witch Volume 3, the Nocturne engine shows its age. Volume 
 3 has the same drab, plain look as the previous two games, and it even recycles some of the previous 
 games' scenery. Volume 3 is filled with dimly-lit areas that rely heavily on the Nocturne engine's 
 notable ability to render real-time shadows and lighting - presumably for atmosphere - but a few 
 flitting shadows hardly compensate for the game's blocky polygonal characters or for its other 
 visual problems.   

  Volume 3 is plagued with many of the same camera and control problems as the original Nocturne. 
 In many areas of the game, you'll find that your view changes multiple times, and nearly always 
 without warning. Unfortunately, other than these often excessively frequent and seemingly arbitrary 
 changes, the game's camera is fixed - you can't take control of it or manipulate it to get a better 
 view of the action, despite that many of the default views are themselves awkward and occasionally 
 difficult to navigate. Instead, you'll find yourself at the mercy of the game's camera, which will 
 change views whenever it decides to - and each time it does, it pauses the game briefly. And these 
 jarring pauses make navigating certain areas frustrating and make the game's already problematic 
 action sequences even more so.   

  Unlike the previous two games, Volume 3 is focused mainly on action sequences - in other words, 
 drawing your pistol, rifle, or magic weapon and fighting enemies. Unfortunately, the awkward camera 
 angles do little to help the game's poor control scheme, which lets you turn far more quickly than 
 you can move forward or sideways. This isn't much of a problem in the earlier parts of the game, 
 since, like the previous games, Volume 3 has an auto-aim feature that will let you automatically 
 draw a bead on your enemies - it's not the least bit challenging or entertaining but not terribly 
 frustrating either. However, some of the more difficult fights against tougher monsters require 
 you to move about while trying to aim, which can be exceptionally frustrating because of the controls, 
 the clumsy camera angles, and the jarring scene transitions.   

  There's not a lot of variety in the action. You'll begin the game with a pistol and an iron cross 
 for close combat, and later you'll acquire a rifle, a fiery cross, a staff that calls lightning 
 bolts from the sky, and other magic weapons and spells. None of these weapons is especially satisfying 
 to use. Throughout the game, you'll fight a few interesting creatures, like demons and winged spirits 
 - but you'll spend much of your time killing the game's ubiquitous, stupid, and slow-moving zombies. 
 Unfortunately, you can't just avoid fighting these boring enemies, since you need to kill them 
 to pick up the health and ammunition power-up items they inexplicably leave behind.   

  Otherwise, there's very little to Blair Witch Volume 3. There are hardly any real puzzles to speak 
 of; instead, the game's adventure elements consist largely of talking to a character, then either 
 running through the zombie-infested Blair woods to fetch an item or to speak to another character. 
 The game's voice acting is passable at best, and character interactions with the overbearing and 
 world-weary Prye are mostly shallow and long-winded; it's often painfully clear that they serve 
 only a few real purposes - either to give you your next weapon or to give you tasks to perform. 
 These tasks might have been less tedious if either they or the characters that assign them were 
 more interesting. As it is, most of the interaction consists of excessively lengthy, insubstantial 
 dialogue.   

  Though the premise behind Blair Witch Volume 3 - being a witch-hunter who hunts the titular witch 
 - may seem intriguing, the game itself fails to deliver on all accounts. Its precious few adventure-game 
 elements are paper-thin. Instead, the game relies heavily on poorly executed action sequences - 
 and neither these nor the game's ambient and forgettable music are the least bit exciting or creepy. 
 Volume 3 is actually longer than either of the two previous games. But the game is longer - and 
 far less enjoyable - because you'll spend more time shooting zombies or reloading your last saved 
 game to try to finish off a difficult foe than you did in the previous games. So if you must get 
 one of the three Blair Witch games, do yourself a favor and don't get this one.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dillyhox
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 23, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  Blair Witch Volume III: The Elly Kedward Tale is the final installment of this three part series. 
 It was a pretty fun game, from what I can say. Most of these games had me playing them through 
 and trying to see what the story is all about. I wanted to know if it shed any light on this story 
 that the movie didn't. I would like to tell you what I found out but I would rather have you people 
 play the trilogy through and find out for yourself. This was a very fun series and I am glad that 
 I got a chance to play it through. I hope that you people enjoy the series as much as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  During the time of its realize the game was considored to be good, nothing too great you understand 
 but good for what it was.
  
  The game has a nitches to say the least, Sound problems and the visual problems being the game 
 is too dark ot see anything and often leaves high and dry with no where to go for help.
  
  Unless you have a rather modern computer the game will have more problems than a game of its class 
 should have. At the time I think is fair to say the Game was advanced for the computer levels around 
 it. Most people's computers couldn't handle the game correctly. Now the Computers are too good 
 for the game. By which time theres a lot more advance and better quality games around Such as Vampires 
 Masquarade: Blood lines.
  
  The Control setup as they have it not exactly Ideal, so you will have to change them to suit your 
 needs. However I found once I have customize the control such as the Use key. It would no longer 
 work. Or the button to open doors and pick up stuff I changed from the mouse to a key on the key 
 board.
  
  The story of the game is rather suspect the details to facts have rather been over extended and 
 in truth does not do the films any credit. 
  
  The only good thing I can say about the game is, it is able to give you a little jump now and then 
 and is some what spooky here and there but not enough to make you cry out for mummy. 
  
  The Graphics are dodgy and sticky. Sound fades out and really only fans of the films Blair witch 
 should want to spend money on this. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
