-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blair Witch Volume 2: The Legend of Coffin Rock
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/blairwitchvolume2tlocr/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  2, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 5.7, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 101 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: G. O. D.
Developer: Human Head Studios
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 30, 2000
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though Blair Witch Volume 2 is not particularly scary, it has a fairly interesting story that's 
 paced briskly. 

 Human Head Studios' Blair Witch Volume 2: The Legend of Coffin Rock is an action-adventure game 
 that was inspired by last year's film, The Blair Witch Project. The game recounts a story that 
 happened more than a hundred years before the events in the film; it's about a soldier that served 
 in the American Civil War. Volume 2 is a rather short game - comparably so with Blair Witch Volume 
 1 (the previous game in the three-part series) - and it uses the Nocturne graphics engine. Though 
 Blair Witch Volume 2 is not particularly scary, it has a fairly interesting story that's paced 
 briskly. It also has excellent sound.   

  As mentioned, Blair Witch Volume 2 is powered by the same graphics-rendering engine as the one 
 in Nocturne, another horror-themed game, which was released a year ago. Unfortunately, time hasn't 
 been especially kind to the engine; Blair Witch's graphics look rather plain, and in some cases, 
 blocky and pixelated. But even though the game's graphics don't look impressive, they're more than 
 sufficient for the game's alternately dreary gray and full-color backgrounds, and they actually 
 allow for some detail on the game's characters. For instance, the game's protagonist - a pale-faced, 
 amnesiac soldier named Lazarus, who's seemingly risen from the dead - wears a loose tunic and a 
 pair of pants that billow in the wind.   

  Blair Witch Volume 2's sound is quite good. That is to say, though the game's voice acting is generally 
 mediocre, its sound effects are great. As you progress through the game, the ambient sounds around 
 your character tend to become increasingly spooky; at first, you'll simply hear the whispering 
 of the wind as Lazarus explores a country road on the outskirts of town. Later on in the game, 
 as you explore the mysterious woods, you'll hear disembodied, sibilant gibberish; faint tappings 
 of stone on stone; and the genuinely creepy alternating laughter and horrified weeping of a small 
 child.   

  The game's graphics and sound complement its story well enough; your character has been awakened 
 by Robin Weaver, a young girl who lives with her grandmother in Burkittsville, Maryland - a town 
 that's also known as Blair. But Robin disappears into the woods - which her grandmother believes 
 to be haunted - and it's up to you to rescue her. Over the course of your journey, you'll have 
 to traverse each area twice. That's because Blair Witch Volume 2 uses an interesting device to 
 drive both the story and the game forward; each time Lazarus explores a new area, he'll also remember 
 it in a flashback sequence, during which you'll play through a much more brightly colored version 
 of the same area. Through these flashback sequences, you'll learn that Lazarus was a military officer 
 sent on a routine mission into the woods of Blair - a mission that went horribly wrong. Each sequence 
 is fairly short and, for the most part, relatively easy to solve - and each is punctuated by a 
 brief in-engine cutscene. For the most part, the game's sequences are structured in such a way 
 that you'll find yourself solving them and moving on to different locales at a fast enough pace; 
 you'll make progress without seeming rushed.   

  In many of these sequences - in both the "present" time and in Lazarus' memory - you'll have to 
 fight with enemy soldiers, rabid dogs, and other hostile characters and creatures. Lazarus is equipped 
 with a handgun, an officer's saber (and later an axe) , and a mysterious glowing cross; you'll need 
 each of these weapons to fight off different enemies in the game's action sequences. You may initially 
 have trouble making effective use of the game's unusual control scheme, since the game requires 
 that you use both the keyboard and mouse (the keyboard to move forward and back, and the mouse 
 to turn to the side and look up or down) - especially since the game takes place on area maps that 
 are entirely static and may not be rotated or panned to afford a better view of the action. However, 
 the game has an auto-aim feature that points Lazarus in the right direction by default when he's 
 holding a pistol, which makes many of the combat sequences much easier to deal with - though it 
 also tends to remove what little challenge or excitement these sequences might otherwise have offered. 
 And it's true that your character can die if he's wounded badly enough. Yet the game's auto-aim 
 feature, as well its liberal placement of twana dolls (the Blair Witch equivalent of health potions) , 
 ensures that you'll rarely have to retry an action sequence - if ever.   

  As with the game's combat, Blair Witch Volume 2's puzzles are fairly straightforward. Most aren't 
 really frustrating - the game's simplest puzzles are rather easy to solve, while others may simply 
 require a few tries to finish. And, unfortunately, though they're generally not terribly difficult, 
 most of the game's puzzles aren't very interesting. One of the more exciting scenes in the game 
 is a confrontation between Lazarus and a hideous creature. This creature is powerful enough to 
 kill him with a single blow - but once you get past the initial excitement, you'll find that defeating 
 the creature is simply a matter of reloading your saved games until you deduce the simple pattern 
 that you need to kill it.   

  Blair Witch Volume 2 doesn't look terribly impressive, and its lackluster voice acting detracts 
 from the otherwise spooky atmosphere that its excellent sound effects create. None of its combat 
 or puzzle sequences are very frustrating or very intriguing. The game itself is not only brief, 
 but also completely linear, so it's got little to no replay value. However, it's got a well-structured 
 and interesting story that's presented in a distinctive way.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Martzel94
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 3, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Well, my journey with this game begun when I bought it second hand, very cheaply. I watched the 
 movie before and I was very curious about the game. Did it disappoint me? Heck no. Although it 
 was certainly not well received by critics and fans as well, I thought that it was good. It builds 
 up on the story from the movie well, and is an interesting horror game.
  
  Plot:
  The story begins just after the end of the American Civil War, you play as a soldier Lazarus, who 
 lost his way home and arrived in a town called Burkittsville. I am not going in any further detail 
 with the story, because it would waste your experience. One more thing is that you get to play 
 both in the past and the present time, which is BIG and cool addition to the whole game.
  
  Graphics:
  Probably the most outdated factor is the graphics. They don't look very bad, but are 
 glitchy. Sometimes you will be stuck, because a piece of invisible terrain blocks your way, the 
 only thing I can say - very irritating... However the graphics do their work and create the right 
 environment.
  
  Controls:
  At first you might have some problems, but eventually you will get used to them.
  
  Sound:
 
  Blair Witch Volume 2, has a great sound. It will create a mysterious atmosphere and add a lot 
 more effect to the scary parts of the game.
  
  Conclusion:
  If you have watched the movie and you liked it, go buy this game because it will give you some 
 good times. It is a horror game, that has its fright moments and although glitches might annoy, 
 they sometimes can make the game like this even scarier. So yeah, whenever you get a chance, pick 
 this game up, it was very enjoyable for me and I really recommend you to check it out!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillyhox
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 23, 2006 12:02 am PT
Review:  Blair Witch Volume II: The Legend Of Coffin Rock is the second game of the trilogy. This has to 
 do with a mysterious soldier that has come down with amnesia, who finds himself in Burkittsville. 
 He is found by a little girl named Robin Weaver, and is named Lazarus by her weird grandmother. 
 When Robin disappears mysteriously into a forest of the Black Hills, the soldier is drawn into 
 a spiritual world of sacrifices of humans and terror. This combines adventure and action. This 
 is actually hell on earth they say. But nothing can be said till you actually play the game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
