-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blazing Angels 2: Secret Missions of WWII
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/blazingangels2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The plethora of upgrades creates a meaningful sense of progression.
 Lots of over-the-top technological toys.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Multiplayer servers feel a little barren, making it tough to enjoy the game's wide collection of modes.
 The game is a little too easy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.1, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 255 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Romania
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date:     Sep 21, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Blazing Angels 2 is a clear improvement over the previous game, though history buffs will probably 
 hate its fictional missions. 

  Blazing Angels 2 is a fairly straightforward mission-based flight game set against the backdrop 
 of World War II, much like its predecessor was. But instead of sticking to the facts like the first 
 game tried to do, the sequel heads off into that not-so-lofty "what if?" territory that World War 
 II-themed games eventually seem to get to, where Nazis are either resurrecting dead humans and 
 making horrific zombies, or building huge Tesla coils and prototypical laser cannons and other 
 then-impossible technology. This game goes for the latter, giving you a bunch of prototype technology 
 to fly and fight against, some of which was just out of reach back in the 1940s. At the same time, 
 a handful of improvements make Blazing Angels 2 a better game than the previous release, though 
 some spotty difficulty progression makes the single-player a little uneven.  

           You'll want to avoid those spotlights if you want to stay alive.      

  The story 
 and characters from the first game have been tossed out, though the basics are the same. You play 
 as Captain Robinson, and you quickly hook up with some wingmen to form an elite squadron that gets 
 into the places that other, lesser pilots couldn't touch. Your team gets involved in some hairy 
 scenarios as you track down a German special weapons division that's turning out a bunch of new 
 technology vital to the fight. So along with protecting key civilian targets in major American 
 cities and bombing bases, you'll also have missions where you have to take out airfields, then 
 land to steal prototype planes and escape. You'll also guard escaping trains, shoot missiles out 
 of the sky, and even take on huge bosslike crafts, like plane-spewing zeppelins, big cannons aimed 
 at Red Square, large Tesla installations, and so on. The game does a good job of moving you around 
 from place to place, which keeps you from getting bored of any one area and constantly has you 
 doing different things in different planes.  

  As this game also appears on consoles, it shouldn't be much of a surprise that it works well on 
 a dual-analog gamepad, but you should definitely know that it practically requires some sort of 
 additional controller or flight stick, because the mouse-and-keyboard controls aren't any good. 
 While the game does have support for Xbox 360 controllers and will start specifically mentioning 
 the Xbox 360 controller's buttons in menus and the like, it doesn't seem to auto-configure for 
 that controller, so you'll still have to go through the process of assigning all your buttons, 
 which you can't actually do from the pause menu, so trying out different configurations is a hassle. 

  Of course, it all eventually comes back to you dogfighting enemy planes. Not too far into the game's 
 18-mission campaign, you start getting secondary weapons like rockets. You get a lot of rockets 
 and it's a snap to replenish your supplies, so at this point, your machine guns become almost totally 
 useless. You later get homing rockets that make blowing up enemy planes a trivial, meaningless 
 task. This means that most of the game is so easy that you'll finish missions on the first try, 
 though that feeling of extreme air superiority fits with the spirit of your elite squad. The lone 
 exception is the eighth mission, which has you guarding Moscow's Red Square against German attackers. 
 The game isn't particularly clear about what you need to do to protect the square from being destroyed, 
 which makes this one mission a little harder than the rest. But for the most part, it's smooth 
 sailing. A little too smooth, perhaps.  

  You'll upgrade your planes as you play using points earned in each mission, and you should have 
 more than enough to buy everything by the end of the game. Different upgrades include better gun 
 sights, faster-firing machine guns, armor and maneuverability enhancements, and so on. One upgrade 
 makes your missiles explode if they get close to a target, which means you don't even have to score 
 a direct hit to take out most planes. In combat, you'll be able to order your wingmen around a 
 bit, and each guy has a special ability, just like in the previous game. One wingman will come 
 back and taunt enemies to give you some breathing room, a skill you'll probably never actually 
 need. Another will go on an aggressive attack and take out a handful of enemies, which is much 
 more useful. The third is a mechanic that will occasionally repair your plane, though unlike in 
 the first game, you don't have to hit a sequence of onscreen buttons to perform the repairs -- he 
 just fixes it automatically at checkpoints.  

  The single-player campaign is pretty satisfying, though it won't take too long for players to bust 
 through it. That's not automatically bad, as flying around and blowing up everything in sight using 
 a variety of destructive tools is actually quite fun. There's also a multiplayer side to the game, 
 and it offers a lot of different modes and options for solo flights, team games, and cooperative 
 play. The catch is that there seem to be very few people playing the game online, and aside from 
 a solo dogfight here and there, it seems impossible to find anyone playing in any of the other 
 modes. For what it's worth, the multiplayer matches we were able to actually get into weren't very 
 exciting. Many matches take place in skies filled with little power-up icons that you can collect 
 to reload your weapons, repair your plane, get double damage, and so on. The power-ups just don't 
 really fit with the vibe of the rest of the game and make the whole thing seem a little hokey. 
 On top of that, if you have a laggy connection to other players, they'll skip around so badly that 
 no one will be able to hit each other. Being able to play cooperatively through the campaign missions 
 is an attractive offer, though, so it might be worth convincing a handful of your friends to get 
 a copy so you can all play together.  

           Collecting stunt icons gives you additional points to spend on upgrades.      

  Blazing 
 Angels 2 looks a bit cleaner and more colorful than the first game. The ground looks nice, even 
 up close, and the various plane models look realistic. You can go in and swap around the colors 
 for each plane and also unlock additional paint schemes. The game's effects and explosions look 
 OK, and for the most part the game has a good, smooth frame rate if you're on a system that meets 
 or exceeds the system requirements. The audio gets a little too repetitive in spots, as the main 
 theme for the game seems to play every few minutes in one form or another, eventually getting a 
 little grating. There's a lot of voice acting throughout the missions and a handful of between-mission 
 cutscenes, and most of it is good enough. You might not like the movielike feel the game is going 
 for, though, because the Germans and Japanese have really awful accents and speak English most 
 of the time.  

  Blazing Angels 2 is a very clear improvement over the original game, though the balance has swung 
 over to the easy side in this sequel. And, of course, if you like your WWII games to be historical 
 and rooted in fact, you probably won't enjoy flying a prototype jet under the Golden Gate Bridge 
 very much. But if you're after a loose, simple game where you get to fly a lot of different, crazy 
 planes and blow up a billion German fighters, you'll probably have a good time.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Fighterpiliot
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Plaese, do me a favor and don't waste your time with this game. Even though I have windows XP proffesional 
 it still takes forever to load. And I don't give bad ratings because things load slowly. The controls 
 could have been done better by someone working on the free Alice computer programing software from 
 Carnagee Mellon. I've seen it first hand. I haven't been able to do mauvers I could pull off easly 
 on Pacific Fighters because of the poor controls. The graphics are the only good thing about the 
 game. If they had made an animated movie they would have done a lot better. What attracted me to 
 the gme is the wide variety of flyable aircraft. Don't be fooled, they are all "unlockable". When 
 you start out all you can fly is the British Spitfire and some Japanese piloted bomb I've never 
 heard of. If you like the wide variety of aircraft go get a nice model from your local hobby store. 
 You'll be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 26, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  IL2 series has been out for quit some time now and to be honest its aged. I thought I would try 
 something new.
  BA 2 is a arcade flight game and similar to the first game in the series. I've noticed few improvements 
 and most of these are minor for example the graphics which dont help anything.
  
  There are about 18 missions - levels to complete. Right off the bat its a battle in frustration. 
 Why? Well, I dont care what anyone says some of the objectives are down-right hard to accomplish 
 for example in the fourth mission where your flying in Egypt and trying to destroy a Zeppelin. 
 This is frustrating because you have to shoot at the air bay doors underneth the zeppelin and the're 
 only open for a few seconds when they release German fighters. On another mission you have to destroy 
 three German B-10's but you can't shoot them down yourself. Only your AI tail gunner can shoot 
 them down and the problem with this is the only control you have is to miraculously maneuver the 
 plane in front of the enemy plane so your gunner has a clear shot which leads to a level that never, 
 never ends!
  
  The graphics are good even for todays technology. The sounds are sufficient. Voice overs are usually 
 well down if not a bit cheesy but what can you expect in this type of game. 
  
  My conclusion is that BA 2 has everything going for it but the mission design for the most part 
 is very frustrating and unnecessarily challenging. 
  The controls are not that great for the PC and there is a huge bug. When you re-define the controls 
 in-game and save them................ it doesn't save? When you load up the game again you have 
 to re-define the controls which to me is frustrating and needs fixed. Yes, I have the 1.01 patch 
 and the game still has many problems. Its sad that most people now days will settle for anything 
 and think its good. The problem with this is that you now have these eastern European countries 
 that design PC games when they don't understand how to design and beta test - basically there is 
 no quality control to speak of! If you can't do the job right let someone take over that can. Im 
 tired of all the junk that has been coming out of these former Soviet eastern block countries, 
 Russia included. Besides the IL2 series which is a masterpiece most games that are designed by 
 these countries are pure crap with BA 2 included. I have a right to my opinion Game Spot. Look 
 what they did to Silent Hunter 4 and it took four major patches to fix their mess. Enough said. 
 
  
  If you want to play a arcade flight game that is buggy and unfinished then play BA 2. Me? I rather 
 keep my feet on the ground. By the way this is my lowest scoring review ever on Game Spot.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ejronin
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 27, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  The game is pretty fun, in a "Secret Weapons of Normandy" sort of way. 
  
  The enemy AI isn't too challenging so it's easy to blow through the game in a couple of day, which 
 means the title has little staying power and as far as sequels go, is pretty weak. 
  
  On the upside, the graphics (lighting, landscape details, and plane models and skins) are well 
 done and ass to the feel of the game. The controls are pretty smooth and aren't over or under-reactive. 
 The freedom to use a gamepad helps a lot too.
  
  On the downside, the game (as I said before) is pretty easy, not very long, and while it does offer 
 a pretty good assortment of planes, most missions lock you into one or two choices per mission 
 (and I saw this as a weak attempt to force replay value) . 
  
  The story line is aslo pretty weak. It's not a story where the player can identify with any character, 
 nor is it a good story to 'sit and listen to'. 
  
  Blazing Angels 1, in my opinion is and was a better game - BA2 jsut took an old concept and did 
 nothing special with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Interface: 8/10
  - First WWII game I've played where the story and action was all based off of a pilot and his missions. 
 Combat with other planes can be difficult at times, once you get behind them its almost too easy. 
 Pretty interesting point of view I've yet to see besides from the original Blazing Angels, which 
 I have yet to play. The gameplay itself is a lot of fun, along with the great selection of aircraft 
 to unlock and use, there are also many upgrades that can be added on your array of planes. Planes 
 can be somewhat difficult to control for the PC unless using a joystick which I HIGHLY recommend 
 getting, it makes gameplay much more fun. They should have made it a bit more keyboard user friendly 
 for the PC users. The WII was also a bit confusing with the controls, but still I was able to learn 
 somewhat quickly, any of the other systems had easy to learn controls.
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 7/10
  - The game is not very immersive but still very addictive, I really 
 didn't know what to expect going into it and I'd have to say the game kept me going for several 
 hours. Atmosphere is very very open, boundries are very large.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 8.5/10
  - The graphics really suprised me, I was expecting poor quality but 
 I was once again suprised. Great graphics for a WWII Flight Fighter game. The Physics weren't anything 
 new, simply blowing up planes or ground units, sometimes ships which happens to be quite fun.
 
  
  Sound: 9/10
  - The voice acting is alright, not much else to say about the voices, but the action and gameplay 
 sounds are of fantastic quality. The developers including all possible sounds heard from war planes 
 and made quite an experience out of it. Love the air raid alarms in the towns, makes me want to 
 destroy them all the more.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 8.5/10
  - No bugs or any problems except for a very few times when menu buttons were either unresponsive 
 on lagging out bad, but rarely happened. Game never crashed or had any issues during actual gameplay 
 and for PC users this game can adapt to most systems on the market.
  
  Replay value: 6/10
  - With the multiplayer options and just the open campaigns I can really keep 
 playing for a long time. Few people seem to ever be on for online play. After a while the game 
 and missions can get quite repetitive.
  
  Value for money: 7/10
  - $20 is the current retail price and this game is probably worth closer to $16-$18. 
  
  Will 
 this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - No, unfortunately not a chance with games like Microsoft Flight Simulator 10 on the market. The 
 only thing this has to beat it out is combat.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - I would recommend renting it first to most people, any diehard Flight Simulator fan should have 
 a lot of fun with this and I would recommend them to buy it for such a cheap price.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 7.5 - As the first Flight Sim game 
 I've ever played, I'm quite content with this one. Somewhat difficult controls to learn but still 
 worth hours of fun! Game certainly could have offered more but didn't at the least bit dissapoint 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkrnmn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  Supports my logitec gamepad. Great game. Just make sure to update the game when you get it first 
 to get the sound working. Otherwise, I say it's outright fun. Some missions may be frustrating 
 when you're using a gamepad, because it's quite hard to stay in stationary path when you have a 
 sensitive gamepad. But never the less, they're testing your flight skills after all..
  
  The voice acting is well done, and I like the wingmen system a lot. The weapon upgrade system makes 
 this game a bit arcade-feeling. I've played IL-2 Sturmovik and Secret Weapons Over Normandy games, 
 and out of those three, if you love plain old shoot them up fun, this WW2 game scratches the spot. 
 I'm a huge Ace Combat fan, and this game comes closer to Ace Combat, though I wish that game would 
 be released in PC! 
  
  Don't let this game go unnoticed... you'll be surprised how fun this game could be.
  
  The graphics 
 are gorgeous as well, running them at full settings. Here's my spec for you to follow..
  
  Intel Q6600 
  Asus P5N-E SLi (0803 bios made it not overclockable!!!)
  1gb Crucial DDR2-6400 
 x2
  Foxconn 8800GT 512mb OC
  500W Ultra PSU
  Windows Vista Enterprise
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenlippiatt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 3:11 am PT
Review:  This game has a very engaging single player campaign with many different locals for the dogfights, 
 although the arcade style controls take a little getting used to, the handeling is very tight and 
 response, only complaint would be the rarity of online players, seeing a server online is a very 
 uncommon occurence, if you want to buy this just for the campaign though go ahead, theres a lot 
 of content so it will also take you a while to get tired of it, the plethora of upgradable weapons 
 and systems and unlockable planes also ads a nice perk to the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  It is understandable that this game would be a lot more enjoyable used with an analogue joystick. 
 Unfortunately i don't have one so am stuck with the mouse and keyboard combination. This is not 
 suitable for this type of game which on a few levels requires precision flying. The mouse keyboard 
 combination is far from smooth and makes for clunky play. The graphics are good for a flight sim 
 but the even on maximum setting the draw distance is not good enough to line up and shoot your 
 target in time when after ground targets. This means most levels require getting familiar with 
 terrain before being completed efficiently, which is difficult because it can lok very samey at 
 times. Sound is good but typical of WW2 music. The game levels are nothing new with plenty of ideas 
 stolen from other games like Crimson Skies (Which was more entertaining than this) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VGButton_Masher
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Greetings PC Gamers:
  
  Very rarely in my life have I been made to eat crow so quickly - and it is not because of a bird-strike 
 to the canopy glass. I AM TRULY SORRY ABOUT MY PRIOR POSTING!!! After having blasted UBISOFT so 
 harshly earlier today, I decided to (for the very last time) try to get my X52 stick to work in 
 Blazing Angels 2. Upon clicking play, low and behold, an AUTOPATCH 1.01 window pops up. I installed 
 the patch, and after maping the buttons and stick axis (you guessed it, folks) MY X52 STICK WORKS 
 PERFECTLY NOW!!! I sincerely want to say that I AM SORRY and THANK YOU to the developers. After 
 playing the game for a little while properly, I was able to fully enjoy the drop dead GORGEOUS 
 GRAPHICS minus the verbal swearing and stick beating. To all of those who were on the fence about 
 buying BA2 because of control issues, the green light has been lit. ALL HAIL AUTOPATCH 1.01!!!! 
 I hope to see all of you daring aviators online in the multiplayer arena! I wish to also formally 
 apologize to the Tech Support representative who had to listen to my rant via the telephone. Now 
 about Blazing Angels 1...
  
  Writen by a truely happy UBISOFT customer (no sarcasm this time) . Please forgive my impatient nature. 
 Great job you guys! I will be the FIRST in line to purchase BLAZING ANGELS 3 for PC!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soraky
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  This is such a great game!!! So many planes so many upgrades so many things!!!! Buy it if you want 
 a great simulator/arcade game!!!! Have no more to say so:
  GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT 
 GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT 
 GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT 
 GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT 
 GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT 
 GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT 
 GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT 
 GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT 
 GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT 
 GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT 
 GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT 
 GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! GREAT 
 GAME!!!! GREAT GAME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zff1013
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  ubi is using customer as beta tester, this company is selling a half-done product. this game has 
 too much technical issues to let you down. i have a logitech extreme 3d pro joystick, a xbox 360 
 controler for pc and a logitech cordless rumblepad2. the last game of this serie can support most 
 of them but this one support none of them. I have been looking for solusions ever since I have 
 this problem. On official forum many people have same problem, and also some of them have no sound 
 whem playing. This kind of mistake should be avoid by Ubi, this company is just using us as a testing 
 tool for their game. I hope this issue can be fixed ASAP by the upcoming patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adi_colegu
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  The graphics is amazing, the physics the same, the level of detail is very high, you can see clearly 
 every building or structure, every object from the environment in a very real form, they payed 
 atenttion to every little aspect of the game, I think is the most well-built WW2 arcade-flight 
 sim ever. But to take advantage of the full potential of the game it is imperative that you have 
 a high end pc with at least 1,5 - 2 GB RAM, AMD X2 or Core2Duo 6xxx and nVidia GF 8800 series or 
 ATI 2900 if you want to see over 40-50 FPS with all maximum details and highest resolution. If 
 you have an ancient piece of... computer which has a configuration belonging to the last millenium 
 don't try to play the game cause you'll end up giving it a score below 5, and ruin the rating of 
 this game, and driving other people to think that what you say may be true. Wait for your birthdays, 
 ask your parents for money, get a job or start your own bussiness in order to buy an up-to-date 
 high-performance pc and then you'll see the difference and the greatness of this game. As for the 
 gameplay, that is also a fine feature of the game, the terrain is filled with tons of buildings, 
 parks, stadium, boats, people... a very large amount of objects which can be used for stunts, or 
 just to pass by them, at a low altitude can give you high satisfaction. It is a bit hard to control 
 the plain but once you've got it you'll like it. Experience with similar games can add to the pleasure 
 of the game, cause if you haven't played a flight simulator in your life it can be very hard to 
 maneuver, but if you are patient I guarantee that you'll not regret it.
  In conclusion... I encourage you to play it... it's a superb game and we all have been waiting for 
 a quality flight sim from a long time. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
