-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blazing Angels: Squadrons of WWII
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/worldwariisquadron/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good multiplayer options--provided you can find anyone else playing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dull mission objectives.
 Easy dogfights.
 Downright offensive enemy voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 24, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 6.4, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 455 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Romania
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date:     Mar 28, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Blazing Angels has a decent campaign and a fair amount of online options, but its standard gameplay 
 and a lack of online competition prevent it from being very exciting. 

  Still somewhat hot on the heels of Ubisoft's last World War II flight combat game, which was released 
 on the PC late last year, Blazing Angels: Squadrons of WWII arrives. This is about as standard 
 as a mission-based flight game can get -- you'll get to bomb targets, participate in dogfights, and 
 defend a lot of stuff in a variety of era-specific planes. While it's a competent package, it doesn't 
 stand out in any way.  

          Blazing Angels offers a very standard mission-based campaign.     

  You play the role 
 of a squadron leader in Blazing Angels, but you don't start out with a squadron to command. Instead, 
 you're one of the few American pilots helping out the British flyboys. You'll jump right into training, 
 but that doesn't last long, because you're quickly whisked away to protect Dunkirk. You'll meet 
 your squadmates early on, and you'll always fly with the same crew, though a few spots here and 
 there have you out on your own. Even then, your group will keep in touch via the radio. When flying 
 alongside them, you'll be able to give them basic orders, such as to break off and attack or to 
 come back to defend you. Each of your three comrades has a unique ability: Frank runs his mouth 
 a lot, but he's also good at getting out there and knocking out targets when you turn him loose; 
 Tom can taunt enemies to pull them off of you if you're under too much fire; and Joe can occasionally 
 allow you to repair your plane via a series of button presses. Their voices are constantly coming 
 at you over the radio, and they're well done. The enemy also chats it up a lot, in heavily accented, 
 nearly broken English, no less. At times, the Japanese voice acting sounds flat-out racist, which 
 casts a dark cloud over the rest of the game's usually sharp audio.  

  Once you meet your team, the game skips around, putting you in many of the major air battles of 
 the war. Aside from some pretty ugly looking ground targets, the different spots you'll visit look 
 nice, as do many of the plane models, provided you have a machine capable of running the game at 
 its higher settings. You'll fly over Pearl Harbor and try to prevent as much damage as possible. 
 You'll fly out over the desert of North Africa in search of Nazis in hiding. And, you'll fly at 
 Midway and take out a sizable chunk of the Japanese fleet. Despite the frequent changes of scenery, 
 the missions are very cut and dried. You're presented with objective after objective, and very 
 few of them are difficult. Between the relative weakness of the forces you'll be facing and your 
 ability to make repairs to your plane, you rarely get shot down unless you're doing something dumb, 
 like flying too high when attempting to creep up on some radar towers that are surrounded by antiaircraft 
 guns. Overall, the game does a good job of making you feel very powerful, but ultimately the victories 
 seem hollow, because you rarely feel like you can fail. At least the dogfighting is mixed with 
 the bombing reasonably well. Torpedoing enemy cruisers and carriers is fun.  

  Flying planes in Blazing Angels is kept pretty light, though the mouse-and-keyboard control is 
 totally inadequate. Given the game's console roots, your best bet is playing with something resembling 
 a dual analog joystick. If you have an Xbox 360 controller, the buttons for that controller will 
 appear onscreen, but you'll still have to configure the buttons to your liking. Considering that 
 you aren't able to configure the controls in-game, you'll have to quit out each time you want to 
 change something, relaunch, watch the StarForce check, button past all of the intro screens, and 
 then reselect a profile just to get back into the action. That process gets awfully annoying as 
 you're trying to feel out what the best control option would be. In addition to its 18 campaign 
 missions and a pair of mini campaigns that open up after you beat the game, Blazing Angels has 
 a few quick-start alternatives. Arcade mode gives you a timer and puts you up against waves of 
 planes. Ace duel puts you up against a single ace pilot, both in the same plane. Beating him unlocks 
 a new paint job for that plane. If the dogfighting were challenging, that might mean something, 
 but instead you can make it just by hitting the brakes for a better turning radius and getting 
 in behind your target.  

          The competitive multiplayer modes breathe some life into the game.     

  In addition 
 to those modes, you can get online or play over a LAN with up to 16 planes in one multiplayer match. 
 There are three modes available for solo games. Dogfight is your aerial equivalent of deathmatch, 
 and this one can also be played in team mode. Seek and destroy has you shooting down marked planes, 
 and the winner is the player who can shoot down every pilot in the game once. And aces high is 
 a mode that pits the entire game against one ace player, who is the only player who can score points 
 until he is shot down, creating a new ace. Team battles don't get aces high or seek and destroy, 
 but three additional modes are here, including capture the base, which has players attempting to 
 land on each other's runways to score points; bombing run has you bombing each other's bases; and 
 kamikaze lets you protect your ground targets from incoming kamikaze pilots. Overall, the competitive 
 multiplayer is more exciting than the single-player, but only in larger groups, which aren't very 
 easy to find.  

  The game also includes an online campaign option that lets you play through versions of the missions 
 found in the single-player campaign. These are a bit tougher, since you'll have to rely on humans 
 instead of your AI-controlled counterparts, meaning that Joe won't be there to let you repair your 
 plane by yourself, even though you'll still hear your squadmates giving advice over the radio. 
 Although you'll probably go down a little more frequently, you can respawn a number of times during 
 the mission, which offsets the increased difficulty.  

  There's enough action here to satisfy you if you know you're in the market for your basic WWII 
 flight combat game, but it's also very standard. If you're up for more of the same, or if you haven't 
 played a WWII flight combat game in a good long time, Blazing Angels: Squadrons of WWII is worth 
 checking out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Zantozzzz
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  This simulator is the better I have played or the only air simulator I have played.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good but you will enjoy more the game if you play it on a XBOX360, 
 PS3 or if you have a good graphic card. The light effects when you shoot, look up to the sky are 
 great, but sometimes when you are hunting an enemy and he is going to the sun you cant see him 
 perfectly.
  
  Game play: I just have played this game on PC and at least I think is more easy if you use the 
 arrows to fly your plane because I have tried using the mouse and it's very hard to fly with it. 
 But I think that with the other consoles as the PS3 and XBOX360 will be more easy to fly.
  
  Difficult: There are some missions that are hard and other that are very easy. The hardest 
 missions are those that we need to kill a bunch of enemy planes in 2 minutes for example or missions 
 where we need to defend a place while we are taking fire from everywhere. The easiest missions 
 I think, are those that we need to sink fleets and just kills bombers because they are slow and 
 they don't have a lot of fire power.
  
  The good: -You won't leave the game until you finish it.
  -The graphic effects are good.
  -You 
 will feel like if you where seated in the plane.
  
  The bad: -It is a very repetitive game (I know it is history, but it is repetitive) .
  -Sometimes 
 the difficult reach a very high level.
  If you are playing it on PC you will need a very good
  graphic card if you want to enjoy all 
 the details. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legice
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 2, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  The first things you see will be the effects. Flying faster and faster creates more blure and then 
 fireing.... creates a special energy effect.
  Then it's all over. Flying is to easy. In any way you turn, the controls change. Like if you press 
 the back arrow key, you fly up, if you turn right/left (you can't overstear) and are turned 90 degrees 
 so when you press back, you still go up. It compfuses you a a bit but get the hang of it. It puts 
 to the effect the wtf factor, because when you are in a fast battle, you mix up the controls really 
 fast and end up crashing.
  
  The enemys repeat the same things over and over and over,.... and ir seriously makes you want to 
 stop playing. Like Your shooting is worse than your flying or my mechanic flys better than you and 
 they keep saying those things umtil you shoot them down, but guess what, more of them arrive and 
 the fun starts over again.
  
  It's those little things that make the game suck. It's still god to play if you are really bored, but 
 not for too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casper0324
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Since there are not many arcade sim on PC anymore, I have picked up Blazing Angel to filled the 
 gap. Originally I played it on Wii with my friend, then later picked it up for my PC. This review 
 will mainly aims at the PC version.
  
  Even though this game is quite old by now, the graphic of the game is still amazing, which includes 
 the planes, landscapes, and effects such as explosion. (Let's not talk about Wii version's graphic) 
 It is really nice to see some famous battlefields and landmarks from the air with such detailed 
 graphic, and yes you can fly through Eiffel Tower.
  
  The sound effect is nicely done but repetitive. After a while all the machine guns whether it is 
 7.92 mm or .50 cal all sound the same. Friendly voice acting is nothing really special. The enemy 
 voice acting is just terribly bad and will start to get on your nerve after a very short while, 
 but the positive side is this might help you to shot enemy down more quickly.
  
  Gameplay is not bad, most mission objectives are repetitive and involving blow up a whole lot of 
 stuffs, but that is pretty much what most Arcade Sims have so let's not be too picky about that. 
 There are only three weapons available in this game, guns, bombs, and rockets, (only one size for 
 bomb and rocket) which is perfectly fine for a WWII arcade sim. The best part is the number of 
 plane you are able to choose in this game. It has around 40 planes and pretty much carry all famous 
 WWII planes from both Axis and Allied side. Your wingmen are pretty good and are not totally useless 
 in this game unlike most other arcade sims, so use them wisely.
  
  The worst part of this game is the camera and control. First of all there is only one view angle 
 available which is a third person camera. For people who love cockpit view (I am one) sorry you 
 are out of luck. There is also a follow camera which will rotate the camera to aim on your target, 
 but watch out there might be a tree in front of you when you are locking on to the enemy at your 
 six. Also in order to use the follow camera, you have to be able to choose the target first, which 
 is not a easy thing to do all the time since there are only two options for choosing target: next 
 target and closest target. Sometimes you will be chased by enemy and want to check your six but 
 you can't end up choosing the enemy behind you to use the follow camera, and no there is no free 
 rotation of camera for you to check your six.
  
  The camera was pretty bad but acceptable, but the control is even worse. I have heard many bad 
 things about how this game is not compatible with joysticks so didn't even bother to try my X53 
 with it. I used a PS2 controller hooked up on my PC to play and it work out pretty well, before 
 I found out there is no independent rudder control. Yup you didn't hear that wrong there is no 
 independent rudder control. When you use the rudder, it will also activate the airelon and force 
 you to do a full banking turn. So no you can't really use rudder in intensive dogfights and canyon 
 flying... good luck with that.
  
  Overall Blazing Angel is a good game. I don't actually mind the camera problem that much since 
 it is kind of nice being able to see how pretty your plane is with this third person camera. With 
 enemy's not so good dogfighting skill and one of your wingman's cover you don't really need to 
 check your six that often either. Plus you can repair your plane in the mid air so getting a few 
 shot before realize there is a plane behind you isn't actually that bad. The lack of rudder control 
 is a big big disappointment to me though. Dogfighting without rudder control is just a total pain 
 in the...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: budboarder
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 31, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the first WWII flight games taht I have played on my computer and it was a good 
 one. I couldnt stop playing it for the first few days. I was really impressed with the way they 
 incorporated the characters while not distracting in the least from the game. Very challenging 
 as well as straight forward. I spent very little time getting used to the controls one I started 
 using a gamepad. The mouse and keyboard was pretty much useless and the joystick was a mess. The 
 options in the game were not very good. Graphics were just above mediocre but sound was great. 
 I also wish it was much longer. Replay value of this game is average. I got into this game when 
 I first started and was into it right up until the point I beat it. Kept me entertained for quite 
 a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narcisse2121
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 14, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  I tried the demo for this game first using just the keyboard mouse config and was happy with the 
 arcade style gameplay of this game. So being the impulse buyer that I am I bought it on the wonderful 
 direct to drive format.
  
  Then its true colors started to come through. I tried to start the game with my X-52 joystick plugged 
 in and nothing. How is this possible I thought. This was a game that was released almost 9 months 
 ago, how can they not have made a patch to support all well known j-sticks?
  
  So a forum hunting I went and lo and behold this was the biggest and main beef that most of my 
 fellow gamers had with this dog. A flying game with almost no known joystick that would work. I 
 even tried plugging in my old saitek st-90 as well as my logitech extreme 3D pro and nothing works!
 
  
  Yes I am very biased on this point with flying games, but this factor alone had me seeing red then 
 and 3 weeks later I still have steam coming out of my ears when I think about it. Nice one ubisoft. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingBoy2009
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 17, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Blazing Angels is a WWII flight sim which takes you to the fronts of North Africa, Western Europe, 
 and the Pacific. Its good in some areas, the graphics are fantastic. The planes are highly detailed 
 and its got neat looking enviroments. There are over 40 planes you can fly and nearly 20 missions 
 to take on. Also it gives you the ability to command your squad, you can issue commands such as 
 attack or defend. Too bad its got a lot of problems. The only camera angle is in 3rd person, theres 
 no 1st person or cockpit camera angles. Its also has poor controls for joystick users. The thing 
 I hate about it most though is the voice acting of your enemies. Your enemys are German and Japanese 
 but they speak english and they can sometimes say the same lines over and over again. Also if you 
 sometimes shoot down a japanese, they yell mommy and I dont think the real japanese of WWII acted 
 like that. Also some parts of it are historicilly incorrect. For example, you can help defend Pearl 
 Harbor and you can shoot down over 50 japanese aircraft. In real life only 29 aircraft were lost. 
 Also you have unlimited machine guns and unlimited bombs and rockets. So its more of an arcade 
 type of game instead of simulation. If you are an aircraft buff or just like the WWII genre then 
 this game is for you. Overall though I say its an OK game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowop22
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  REVIEW
  BLAZING ANGELS SQUADRONS OF WWII
  UBISOFT Rating: T
  Platform reviewed: PC
  
  System Specs used for review:
  Geforce 7800 GTX
  Audigy 2 Zs Gold
  2 Gb RAM
  Windows XP 
 SP 2
  AMD Athlon 3500 + 64 bit
  
  *This is my first gamespot. com review
  
  Game play:
  The game starts out with a single and simple training mission. You are grouped with 
 3 other pilots, Joe, Tom, and Frank, each posses different abilities. For example, Joe can repair 
 your plane for you during flight, which is a very valuable asset. The game looks amazing and you 
 feel like you are right in the battle.
  Also, it is never just you and your 3 men up in the air, you are among hundreds of other planes, 
 which I personally really enjoyed.
  
  The game is overall more of an arcade style rather than a simulator, as you only have to really 
 watch out for your altitude and speed. Mission Layout:
  Most missions are the standard defend/attack, but many of them offer various tasks. For example, 
 one mission you have to perform a reconnaissance mission using only the radio systems to locate 
 enemy positions. Other missions you are only given a few of your teammates, which makes it much 
 harder especially when you don't have the ability to repair your fighter.
  
  Tilt/Value:
  This game could be played many times over, and it also has 2 bonus mini campaigns (one bombing 
 and one more dogfight style) and also has an arcade scenario (hold off as many enemy attack waves 
 as possible) and an ace scenario (1v1 against a VERY good AI pilot using a similar plane) . There 
 are also numerous missions for you to play which span famous WWII battles such as the battle at 
 Coral Sea, and spans from Africa to the Pacific.
  The game also gives you controls of numerous weapons, from torpedoes to bombs, and even rockets. 
 These are assigned to each mission, so they are not selectable, but it seems appropriate for each 
 mission.
  
  There are over 30 planes to choose from, and each has a distinctive feel. This coupled with the 
 various weapons, really enhances the game and its overall value.
  
  Difficulty
  The game begins very simple, and I was even doubtful of a challenging campaign. However, each mission 
 became increasingly harder, especially in the Pacific where your fighter lacks the maneuverability 
 of the Japanese fighters.
  The learning curve (I averaged it along with the later missions) is about 1 to 2 hours, as it takes 
 a fair amount of time to be able to complete the more difficult missions. But this seems only fair, 
 as who would want to complete each mission on their first time around?
  
  Multi player:
  I have not had an opportunity to try this yet, but for the PC it is hard to get into (I've gone 
 that far) as you cannot register in game. However, I would expect the multi player to be exciting 
 especially with the amount of vehicles available.
  
  Summary
  
  *NOTE
  there is a patch available which enables a cockpit view.
  Link:
  http://browse. files. filefront. com/Blazing+Angels+Squadrons+of+WWII+Official+Patches/;1602129;/browsefiles. html
 
  
  Pros:
  -Vehicle tracking system
  -30+ vehicles
  -Numerous secondary weapons
  -Vehicle repair ability
  -Side campaigns
  -Challenging
  -Multi player enabled (16 players 
 via internet/lan)
  -Mission variety
  -Good replay value
  -Great graphics
  -Great sound
  
  Cons
  -NOT A FLIGHT SIM
  -some training is too short
  -voices repeat 
 sometimes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 10, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  Its just perfect for some ppl especyaly for the one who Watched PearlHarbour & other WW2 Movies 
 ! It may not be totaly a sim but its the best Graphics i'v seen till not for a Dog-fighting game 
 , ivent he sounds are realistic & i just can't get enough of that PEARL HARBOUR Armosphere ! Just 
 perfect ! Irecomend before u play it u should wanth "Pearl Harbour! I just hope that if this 
 PC version didn't pleased u i'm sure that the next gen version will sure doo because i know UBI 
 that reads some of these forums & are trying to fill some gaps of the game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikabko1
Rating: 1.1
Date: Aug 31, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  One of the problems with current 2005, 2006 video games. Is the motherboard. never buy FIC, Gigabyte, Shuttle 
 Space walker. It wil give you lots of perional grief! Wasting money. Venders All SALES ARE FINAL 
 NO REFUND! BUY AT MY OWN RISK! BIG WARNING GIGABYTE, FIC!
  WORST PILE OF CRAP MOTHERBOARD. EVEN ONLINE VENDERS STOPED SELLING IT! YOU WILL SUFFER SOFTWARE 
 + HARD WARE CONFLICKS! CONTOLERS CONFLICKS! CRASHES! GAMES NOT WORKING!
  
  BLAZING ANGELS! PC!
  The game sucks!
  The game realy stinks!
  You will have missing sound 
 file then have to uninstall it and install it with the Direct X on top of it self. Total waste 
 of time! If the game dose not install properly. WELL I Put the blame on UBISOFT and Microsoft and 
 Gigabyte and FIC for that. The entire system is not responding with each other.
  
  Other problems is
  Controls of the game!
  2nd Persion view or 3rd persion view realy is bad 
 for Flight Sims!
  there is no way to play a flight sim this was! Well there is no way to fly the plane like this. 
 Get out of control is flay the plane right to the ground! The plane will make a big BOOM on the 
 ground! You want to go this way and end up going 180 degree and 256 degrees in the wrong direction 
 ( both at the same time!)
  
  Flight School! First thing you have to do is take flight school!
  Teach you the basic flight 
 controls. The game dose not fly with 2nd persion view. How to reconfig the flight stick dose not 
 help!
  
  Intro video! poor! Shoppy sound! Chooopppy Video!
  Thats when the motherboard, CPU, Controlers, Game it self are not responding correcty GeForce FX 
 5200 is enough to run the game! a Problem may be not enough graphic memory 128 megs are not enough 
 graphic mamory. I may have to contact the graphic card manifactor on that.
  
  I contact UBISOFT on this. There respond on that was bad!
  All they give is the general robot 
 info! They work like robots that are not taking comands and crash! They gave me info that dose 
 not work!
  1) missing sound file! Unstall the game and reinstall the game and the Direct X on top of the one 
 that is isntalled is a waste of time
  2) How to config the controls! NUTS! IIts not bad! Try to change the controls is a nightmare. Error 
 messages about using the same command and try something else. B) BAD respond on the problems! Its 
 the game it self is the problem! How the game works is the problem! The Design of the controls 
 are the problem!
  The rest of the letter they sent to me is useless! Simply Kill the message!
  Then I may have 
 to send the game back to UBI for a refund!
  
  I dont think the X BOX 360 version game play is not going to be that much better!
  buy some better 
 Flight Sim! That you know that works!
  I hate it! 10,000,000,000,000,000% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_zone
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 27, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  WOW!! that's my first tought by looking at the graphics!! And i thought that this is a must get 
 game!!
  
  And yeah!! i thought right!! Ubi has done a great job on doin this air combat game!! This game 
 is not like ay other Flight sim game!! this is a flight action game!! We dont want a simluation 
 game where everything thing runs slow.. and ubi did it.. a fast paced game with easy to control buttons 
 while in the air.. and that is blazing angels!! U can't miss it!!!
  
  This game have a very unique gameplay!! I can feel the exicitement while playing it.. I've played 
 Microsoft Flight sim Combat 3 and it sucks!! But Blazing Angels is the best flight game!! To me.. it's 
 like a real simulation too!! u can do tricks with the plane.. outmaneuvered the enemies and even 
 fly a plane like u've never fly before!!
  
  The graphics for this game is good even it's on low detail.. I'm impressed with the low graphics.. though 
 i'm playing on high.. but i have to say that this game has the best graphics for flight game!! MFS 
 can't beat this game's engine!!
  
  And some of u might heard of the joystick issue.. but screw it...!! this game works best with a 
 dual analog controller especially if u also have the vibration support!! I suggest u guys to get 
 a LOGITECH RUMBLEPAD 2 DUAL ANALOG STICK WITH VIBRATION gamepad!! It really works great!!
  
  I'm really happy with my purchase!! I hope everyone is.. Ubi!! u have done a great job!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  When I got this game I got it with a unbiased opinion, even with some of these reviews. Unfortunately, 
 I do wish I stopped to do some more research. This game does contain Starforce which I do despise 
 with a passion, so do beware if you do not like this form of copyright protection.
  
  This game is all about the arcade experience, so don't expect really anything to do with any realistic 
 flight physics. Stalliong doesn't leave your set up for death, in some cases it can be the best 
 way to get a baddie to fly on by, or for you to circle in behind his tail.
  
  Graphically it isn't top notch like Oblivion, or Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter. In fact the fighters 
 and bombers really to not take any realistic damage modeling.
  
  There are some bugs to note. The first resounding one is a sound based one I have been experiencing. 
 I have a soundblaster X-Fi with the latest driver set, and alot of stuttering does occur. My Logitech 
 Extreme 3D also does not properly work with this game being that all my other games like BF2, BF 
 1942, IL2: Strumnovik, and Falcon 4.0 . The standard mouse control scemes do not feel right, maybe 
 a trackball would seem to work well, but why change.
  
  Get rid of Starforce, and the two major sound, and stick bugs, and this game would be great. Unfortunately, 
 the last patch did not resolve either of the two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yougeeoh1976
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 9, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Is it just me or does it seem like they though this one together in a few months. There is no gauges 
 so you will have to guess your way though until to you get it down. No cockpit view, personally I 
 say go buy 
  Secret Weapons Over Normandy. At least in that game your not flying
  blind.
  
  "A whisper to Ubi-soft please can you make a patch for a complete 
  cockpit view. Or at least 
 add a few gauges and a way to track your target."
  Whats up with that any way slap a cross-hair on the screen and call it a HUD. LMAO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pant_mayur
Rating: 8
Date: May 27, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  WELL A TOTALLY AWESOME GAME FOR THOSE WHO DONT WANNA BOTHER ABOUT KEEPING THE PLANES IN THE AIR, IE 
 IF UR NOT A SIM FAN AND LOVE TO AIM AND SHOOT GO FOR THIS ONE.
  
  AS USUAL UBISOFT HAS ROCKED. DONT WORRY BOUT FUEL, LANDING 
  ITS JUST GET UP, MANUVER AND SHOOT. GRAPHICS 
 ARE GOOD IN THE AIR, THE DETAILS ON THE GROUND SHOULD HAVE BEEN IMPROVED.
  BUT STILL THIS GAME IS GOOD FOR THE AVERAGE GAMER. ONCE YOU ARE IN THE COCKPIT JUST MAKE UR MOVES, AND 
 KICK SOME GERMAN ENGINES BYE BYE..
  AS FAR AS THE MISSIONS ARE CONCERNED IST DETAILED ONTO VARIOUS SENARIOS OF WW2.
  WHERE THE GAME 
 LACKS PUNCH IS THE DIFFICULTY. ONCE U LEARN TO MANEUVER THE PLANE ULL FIND IT A WALK IN THE PARK. ONLY 
 DOGFIGHTS COULD GIVE U SOME PAIN.
  
  BUT STILL IF U ARE A WW2 GAME FAN AND ARE BORED KILLING TROOPS ON THE GROUND TAKE A GOOD PERSPECTIVE 
 OF THINGS FROM THE AIR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayef69
Rating: 3
Date: May 1, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Terrible support from UBI. Needs serious patch. Game still sitting in box. The forum has 100's 
 of gamers screaming and cussing at UBIsoft. They released it and knew it would not work. I am very 
 disappointed and I will be very careful when I buy one of their products again if I ever do. I 
 wish they would release the codes to programmers so they can fix this problem. Until it is fixed 
 I give it a failing grade. If there is patch later I will re-evaluate the game. Don't spend your 
 money on this piece of crap. They did release patch 1.01 but it made the joystick handability worse. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 22, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This game seems to me to have been very poorly designed and put together and has that feeling of 
 'well lets give the gamers nice pretty explosions and they will buy it' sort of feel.
  
  There is no doubt that this is a beautiful looking game but it is just so shallow. The missions 
 that you get sent on are not inspiring or even that interesting and they certainly don't make you 
 feel like the hero of the skies that you are wanting to be.
  
  There are some real problems as well with the game. Apart from the end of level bosses, everything 
 else is really easy to kill. The bosses however are the total opposite and take a very long time 
 to beat.
  
  The voice acting is particularly annoying especially when they say things that make no sense (like 
 being called and American when I was flying in a spitfire etc) .
  
  So if I were you, I would leave this title well alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibustignolle
Rating: 3.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  The developers have really messed up, hardly any joysticks work, the setup is totally incapable 
 of assigning adequate keys. On that same note, there is no clean divide between roll and yaw, going 
 left moves both ailerons and rudder (which should be on the twist axe) . Community forum (http://forums. ubi. com) 
 is worth a read to appreciate how bad this game is.
  The game graphics are impressive, but when looking at it in details, a lot of bluring and glaring 
 is used, lots of spoof. A lot simpler for graphics and effects, Heroes of the pacific , will give 
 you 10 time more joy, with no pretention. Sorry to see so many companies selling out half made 
 products these days. I have asked for a refund. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hokiebird
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  This game is bitter-sweet. It has too many restrictions that a plane simulation should not have. 
 I liked the very detailed scenery that was developed. The scenery is the most perfected aspect 
 of the game. It really enhances the feeling of WW2 times. The Missions on the other hand take way 
 too long to finish completely. Once you think its over another wave of aircraft come. Its very 
 repetitive and boring. Besides the scenery, the game is lacking the necessary detail any aircraft 
 simulation should have. I prefer the open game play in the Microsoft Combat Flight Simulator series. 
 Blazing Angels is a descent game that cant quite make it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhemberger
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 31, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  I was very excited to play this game when I first heard it was announced. Third person flight sim 
 (I write sim with a light hand, but that could be a good thing) with a WWII theme. Been there, 
 done that, but I'm still interested. There hasn't been a good flight sim game in a long time and 
 nothing has come close to the original Crimson Skies. From the time I started the game I couldn't 
 help but be reminded of the old school nintendo adventure games when the text was displayed across 
 the screen. What??? This is supposed to be a next gen game. Not a good first impression. The graphics 
 seem to be missing that excitement generated by the screen shots. I was soooo ready to love this 
 game. I can't see putting in anymore than 10 hour total into it after playing for about 2 hours. 
 There was so much potential. I really can't say where it went wrong, because it never really left 
 the ground from the start. The combat is too simplified and the challenges are weak at best. I 
 guess I'll go back to playing Crimson Skies until somebody listens. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
