-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blitzkrieg: Rolling Thunder
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/blitzkriegrollingthunder/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  2, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.1, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 138 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Nov 30, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With a few glaring exceptions, the new missions tend to be exciting and challenging, taking advantage 
 of what the Blitzkrieg series has always done well: intense real-time WWII combat. 

  Blitzkrieg might not have set the gaming world alight when it was released last year, but it was 
 still a solid World War II real-time strategy game that put the focus squarely on tactics instead 
 of base building or resource harvesting. Blitzkrieg received a stand-alone expansion earlier this 
 year called Blitzkrieg: Burning Horizon. It basically offered more of the same, but with some new 
 units, artificial intelligence improvements, and a new subject: Rommel's campaigns. Now comes a 
 second stand-alone follow-up, Blitzkrieg: Rolling Thunder. Like Burning Horizon, it's a modest 
 addition to the Blitzkrieg series. It offers a solid new campaign, as well as some new units, textures, 
 and AI upgrades, but it also neglects to address some old problems.  

          Historical missions follow the famous exploits of General Patton.     

  Rolling Thunder 
 centers around a new campaign that follows the exploits of General Patton. Over the course of 18 
 missions, you'll guide Patton's troops through historically based battles in North Africa, Sicily, 
 and Europe. You also get eight stand-alone missions set in New Guinea, Siberia, and Spain during 
 its civil war in the 30s. Like Burning Horizon, this new game inexplicably lacks any multiplayer 
 options or skirmish mode, seriously cutting down on replay value. At least the new solo missions 
 are rather involved, with many that can last an hour or more.  

  Other problems from the first two games remain unaddressed. The tiny interface with its sometimes-obscure 
 icons still needs improvement. The game also needs commands to easily group armor units into formations. 
 Also, you frequently have to click a unit multiple times to get your selection to register, which 
 wears thin in a hurry. You still can't rotate, zoom, or tilt the camera, which can be a bit of 
 an obstacle at times.  

  While Rolling Thunder isn't the most user-friendly game, it still offers a fun focus on combined-arms 
 tactics. You have to manage some close-range, short-term resupply of men and materiel, but otherwise 
 there's no resource management or harvesting to worry about. Even though Rolling Thunder won't 
 be mistaken for a hardcore tactical war game, its detail and realism are still uncommon in WWII 
 RTS games. Armor units are rated for front, side, top, and rear armor, and the ammo for the main 
 and secondary guns is tracked separately. Infantry gain defensive bonuses when in trenches or buildings, 
 and antitank guns get offensive bonuses when firing down on vehicles from hills. Scout snipers 
 can camouflage themselves so they can sneak up on enemy gun crews and pick them off. Don't get 
 greedy, though, as upgraded AI can cause enemy troops to actively hunt down your snipers. Your 
 engineers can repair bridges, erect antitank obstacles, and more. You can also call in air assets, 
 including airborne troops.  

  The tactical key is knowing how to effectively combine these varied units to maximize strengths 
 and minimize weaknesses. Your Sherman tank works well until it gets too close to an enterprising 
 German infantryman who chucks a grenade that immobilizes your vehicle. You might need to screen 
 and scout ahead with infantry and perform air recon to keep armor safe. Your air support can be 
 a lethal tool, but you might have to silence enemy antiaircraft guns with your long-range artillery 
 before sending in your planes. Sadly, serious pathfinding and AI problems can make it difficult 
 to carry out your plans. Just as in the original Blitzkrieg, you'll have to do a heck of a lot 
 of handholding and micromanaging to get by.  

  If you're willing to put in that effort, you'll usually be rewarded with some fun and challenging 
 tests of your tactics. You'll capture coastal garrisons, fight brutal slogs through the open desert, 
 assault hillside defenses, defend bridgeheads, and more. Missions usually offer multiple required 
 and optional goals, and you sometimes get to choose the order in which you pursue them. The missions 
 can get tough pretty quickly, but you can choose from a number of difficulty levels and game speeds, 
 and you can also issue orders while paused. Some missions are just poorly designed, whatever the 
 setting. In one scenario, the vital units you need to protect are destroyed right when the mission 
 starts. In another, you have to intercept enemy officers under time pressure, but you aren't given 
 a clear enough idea where to find them.  

          Just a few of the many units you'll have at your disposal in one mission.     

  Rolling 
 Thunder's presentation ranges from attractive and meticulous to sloppy and lazy. For evidence of 
 the latter, look no further than the opening cinematic left over from the original Blitzkrieg. 
 The title screen and menus simply say "Blitzkrieg," as if the developers couldn't be bothered to 
 add the full title of the new game. The options menus include a leftover multiplayer setup page, 
 even though there's no multiplayer component in the game. The music gets repetitive, and the voice-overs 
 often seem stilted and silly. On the bright side, the game's graphics -- while not cutting-edge by 
 any stretch -- boast loads of fine details that help bring battles to life. Tanks buck from the recoil 
 of their main guns, quaint farmhouses catch fire when artillery shells churn up nearby fields, 
 and damaged planes trail plumes of smoke.  

  Blitzkrieg: Rolling Thunder can feel halfhearted beyond just the recycled visuals and audio. You 
 get some minor gameplay enhancements and some new units, but the latter doesn't make any real impression 
 since the game already includes a huge complement from the prior games. On the whole, Rolling Thunder 
 doesn't make any significant strides over the original Blitzkrieg; just like the first expansion, 
 this new one is ultimately more of the same where the gameplay is concerned. It's really all about 
 the new missions. With a few glaring exceptions, the missions tend to be exciting and challenging, 
 taking advantage of what the Blitzkrieg series has always done well: intense real-time WWII combat. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Blitzkrieg is the second stand alone (don't need the orginal to play) expantion pack 
 for the original Blitzkrieg game. solid World War II real-time strategy game that put the focus 
 squarely on tactics instead of base building or resource harvesting. Which is good since you have 
 more time to mauver your troops instead of worrying about your resources. So in this game, the 
 story of the game revolves around George S. Patton, tank general extraordinaire and his battle 
 from Casablanca to Pilsen across eight chapters of about five missions each. New locations include 
 Australian Guinea, Spain, Siberia and the forests of the Ardennes just to name a few. Of course 
 there are new units and maps or eles it won't be an expantion pack. These include Arabian sharpshooters 
 and Russian guerrillas, which are fun to play around with. There is also no multiplayer so replay 
 value is limited. Graphics: The graphics are just as good as and sometimes better than pervious 
 instalments, but I'm starting to think that the engine is holding the graphics back. The people 
 at CDV uses mostly 2-D drawn graphics but there are some 3-D graphic elements in it as well. Well 
 what eles can I say? the graphics are quite good, they are colorful and the effects are accually 
 suprisingly well done.
  
  Sound: Well nothing much to say here but, the sounds in the game all should sound the way they 
 way they should sound. From the gun fire to the rolling of the tanks. Also the voice overs are 
 not bad either.
  
  Value: All in all this is a solid World War 2 game. The first decent WW2 RTS game that I have played. 
 But this expantion is lacking a multiplayer portion and also the tanks and other machinery get 
 stuck when there are to many in one area. So I can't rate this game too high because even though 
 this is a fun game there is not much replay value to it. I give this game 7.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeityCode
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 24, 2005 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Blitzkrieg: Rolling Thunder is great fun to play for casual and dedicated players of RTS combat 
 games. Briefly, there are four main aspects that make this such an enjoyable game. There are many, 
 well modeled and fully destructible units to use and fight against. Historical accuracy of events 
 and tactics is incorporated very well into the action. The campaign covers the battlefield exploits 
 of General Patton so the battles take place in Africa, Sicily, and Northern Europe. One of the 
 best features: the environment is fully destructible.
  
  If you are familiar with RTS games the controls will be easy to learn and you should be able to 
 begin play immediately. If you havent played any RTS games in the past five years then you will 
 need to take a little time going over the tutorial. If you have played any of the other titles 
 in the Blitzkrieg series you will find that some improvements have been made while some of the 
 existing issues have been ignored. One nice added feature is the existence of a patch which will 
 allow online play
  
  Still, the game plays very well even with some of the game play issues remaining. The most exasperating 
 problem is that unit selection using the mouse can, sometimes, be problematic. However, I have 
 discovered that during the Battle of the Bulge, some units cannot be selected at all. This is because 
 they are German units using American vehicles or uniforms. So, any unit that would not respond 
 I instantly eliminated with extreme prejudice. It was fun discovering those hateful spies and even 
 more fun destroying them! Once I had that figured out I did not notice the selection problem as 
 much.
  
  Unlike many WW II RTS games this is not a squad based game. You will sometimes have command of 
 a tank platoon supported by an infantry platoon. Usually you will command several tank platoons, 
 an infantry company with anti-tank guns and a battery of artillery. Some missions include 81mm 
 mortars but all missions include armored vehicles. Once 1945 rolls around the Patton tank becomes 
 available and several later versions of the Sherman also appear on the battlefield. These are great 
 fun to take into combat.
  
  All in all, I enjoyed this game very much and found that its only drawbacks are the short campaign, 
 the inability to play as the Germans or Italians, no zoom feature and no 3D graphics. The 2D graphics 
 are very well done and look great. If you played the original Blitzkrieg, all of the smoke that 
 interfered with the game play is gone. With this game one can easily imagine that he has command 
 of an armored task force of the 3rd Army, the 7th Army or II Corps. The missions can be challenging 
 but they are not impossible and missions can be repeated if necessary. Battle damage is well depicted 
 and explosions are gorgeous. The sound is good and the music is not annoying. Casual players need 
 not worry about what a corps might be or whether it is bigger or smaller than a battalion. All 
 that is necessary is a desire for some WW II era armored combat. 
  
  Is it worth what you get? Yes. It is currently selling for about $20 and the whole series, entitled 
 Blitzkrieg Anthology, is on sale for about $30. I recommend getting the Rolling Thunder version 
 and just enjoy the heck out of it until Blitzkrieg II comes out in a few weeks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raze1616
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2005 2:49 am PT
Review:  The original Blitzkrieg remains one of my favorite games in the war RTS genre simply for repeated 
 play. Rolling thunder continues to improve the overall feel of the game as a whole. The historical 
 missions associated with Patton create a new level of gameplay that fell a bit short in Burning 
 Horizon. While still containing the bugs of the series, such as pathfinding, units getting stuck 
 , this game has upped the ante in regards to A. I . The enemy seems a bit more advanced & able to 
 stand up to attack more so then in the first 2 games of the series. Overall a nice addition to 
 the Blitzkrieg family. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
