-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blitzkrieg
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/blitzkrieg/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 27, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 8.0, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 516 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Nival Interactive
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     May 12, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite its flaws, Blitzkrieg is fast-paced, challenging, and generally enjoyable. 

  Blitzkrieg may seem like a difficult game to start playing. It's another European 2D real-time 
 strategy game set in World War II, like the Sudden Strike series. It isn't particularly flashy, 
 and it doesn't have any especially innovative features or revolutionary concepts. It's also rather 
 unpolished. But while the game may not make a very remarkable first impression, it does have some 
 strong gameplay elements that give it some real substance and help make it deserving of your attention. 

          Blitzkrieg features a good variety of units.     

  Blitzkrieg is a fast-paced and fairly strategic game that focuses on ground combat. Rather than 
 constructing a base and a bunch of units, you'll simply be given an army for each mission and set 
 out to complete your objectives. In some cases, you'll be given forces that make the missions rather 
 challenging, though in others, you'll end up with an army that lets you accomplish your mission 
 fairly easily. The game is actually based on historical World War II battles, and in some cases, 
 this means that some missions are rather boring. However, the game has a wealth of other gameplay 
 options, so the game as a whole does have some depth to it.  

  In the actual game, you have a great variety of units at your disposal, including many kinds of 
 artillery, tanks, trucks, and infantry. You'll often be surprised at what you can do with them: 
 Infantry can throw grenades to destroy tanks, if they get close enough; engineers can build trenches, 
 bridges, and tank blocks and plant or disarm mines; artillery can be ordered fire automatically 
 at specified points that are so far away as to be out of view; trucks can ferry troops; and troops 
 can enter buildings. You can also steal unmanned enemy artillery. All these options help make the 
 actual unit vs. unit combat interesting and strategic.  

  The game also offers plenty of other strategic elements. Though Blitzkrieg focuses on ground combat, 
 you can call in different kinds of air support, including bombing runs and paratrooper drops. You 
 can also transport slow-moving troops in trucks and in tanks. You have to keep track of your troops' 
 ammo supply, though. Each unit has primary and secondary ammunition, and once you run out, you 
 must get more from either a supply warehouse or a remote supply station, where you must order truck 
 crews to resupply your armies. However, the game has some noticeable pathfinding problems in these 
 tight areas -- vehicles can go in reverse, but they often waste time needlessly repositioning. The 
 concept of supply definitely adds more strategic depth to the game, but the actual process of supplying 
 your army can be cumbersome.  

  The game gives you a lot to do, but it isn't always easy to do it. The interface consists largely 
 of a number of tiny buttons clustered in a very small area. While you're learning the interface, 
 you'll have to stop and carefully examine the buttons, often waiting for the pop-up help tool to 
 appear to get any idea of what each button is. Even when you do get used to the buttons, you may 
 find it hard to always click on the right one in the heat of battle. You can, with enough practice, 
 learn to use these tiny icons fairly well, but the game's interface is by no means intuitive or 
 elegant.  

  And the game's interface and environments look a bit bland. For the most part, the game uses a 
 subdued color palette that mainly consists of dark greens, grays, and browns. Though the terrain 
 is 3D, the maps are 2D, and they aren't very crisp. The buildings, forests, and water featured 
 on the maps aren't especially detailed or artistically inspired, either. We also noticed some odd 
 graphical glitches in the game, such as the fact that player-created overlays tend to interfere 
 with special effects. For instance, if an explosion goes off in a trench (which is fairly common) , 
 the explosion appears on either side of it, while the trench itself appears to be plastered on 
 top of the flames. However, the rest of the game actually looks decent, and in some places it looks 
 quite good. Blitzkrieg features a total of 200 3D units with believable animation -- tanks rock back 
 after firing, jeeps bounce over hills, and so on. Most importantly, the game also has some satisfying 
 special effects, especially for artillery and rocket fire and explosions (the ones that aren't 
 near trenches, anyway) .  

          Your troops have a variety of interesting abilities.     

  The game's audio is its 
 weakest feature. The sound effects are hollow, tinny, and rather unauthentic. The music is mostly 
 orchestral, and though it's appropriate, it's not especially complex or memorable. Similarly, the 
 game's spoken dialogue (in its missions and between-mission cutscenes) is underwhelming in terms 
 of variety and creativity, and the poor translation occasionally renders the dialogue incoherent. 

  Fortunately, the basic mechanics keep the game interesting -- especially the unit-to-unit combat, 
 which is even better in the game's free-form multiplayer modes than it is in the single-player 
 campaign. Just about every individual aspect of the game is at least acceptable, if not good, and 
 while it suffers from a distinct lack of charm or style, it has enough substance -- including technical 
 stability -- to make it worthwhile. Despite its flaws, Blitzkrieg is fast-paced, challenging, and 
 generally enjoyable.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sanjerese
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Yes, indeed. And I put "pain" in front of "fun" because that's exactly what happened to me. The 
 game started out mediocre in every way, at first I even considered this game as some type of degraded 
 command & conquer. And after awhile the missions get extremely frustrating, but it's after that 
 that I started to see the beauty of this game and knew that this is FAR from command & conquer.
 
  
  It took me quite awhile to realize that this game is actually puzzle-like, and certain strategies 
 are simply dead ends, you simply have to find another way around if your currently strategy doesn't 
 work. Different types of units have very distinct functionalities and each are fun to use.
  
  This is a game which you will want to do A LOT of reconnaissances before you decide how you 
 are gonna initiate an attack, because one single mistake in miscalculating enemies' strength could 
 potential be overwhelming or fatal to the mission. This is true even when you are decent with the 
 game mechanics.
  
  After awhile this game does get repetitive, and some later missions could be painfully slow (especially 
 when you are repeating the strategies from prior missions) . 
  
  Conclusion is, this game is quite interesting (to someone who's used to starcraft or age of empres 
 type of rts games) , the puzzle-like nature of the game makes it true "strategy" game rather than 
 "tactic" game, and it forces you to think the big picture. Only wishes it having more diverse strategies 
 and unit types to last the game longer, and oh the multiplayer sucks big time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yorro
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 1, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Although there's not much hype when it was first release, Blitzkrieg surprised the gaming world 
 with it's realistic graphics and gameplay.
  
  Blitzkrieg's gameplay is realistic in every detail. Meaning you get reinforcement from outside 
 the map, not just sprouting in barracks or buildings like most games. Resources can be gathered 
 in factories or depots, not from natural resources. Every object is destructible from building 
 to trees to the grassy ground, and they stay like that for the rest of the mission.
  
  Blitzkrieg's mission is realistic and hard, you can't just rush the enemy and quickly end the mission. 
 It requires planning and tactical executions, some players will find this very boring because of 
 the slow pace. But i find the slow pace rewarding since it is hard to acquire reinforcements and 
 once you lost some units, they are gone for good, so you must be careful and plan your moves with 
 safety.
  
  Graphics is the best at it's field since it is not 3d like some games, but is the best of all non-3d 
 games. The scenery is beautiful and very detailed.
  
  The Audio is what brought this game to life, although the voice acting is very dull but the sound 
 effects like explosions, tank movement and other makes up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Blitzkrieg is a fast-paced and fairly strategic game that focuses on ground combat set 
 in World War 2. The game is actually based on historical World War II battles and you get to play 
 three campaigns allow you to fight as the Anglo-American, German or Soviet armies. You can create 
 many troops, which is far more that the usuall RTS game have. The biggest thing in the gameplay 
 department that really stood out to me about the game and may have contributed to some of the space 
 taking here was the sheer numbers of planes, tanks, artillery, and infantry and how they could 
 be utilized. My only complaint is the artilery and tanks which can get stuck when they are to many 
 and to closes together. Planes are also a great way to help win a war, and theres no shortage 
 of them to be found here since you can select recon, fighters, paratroopers, or bombers with a 
 couple of mouse clicks. For example, you can call a recon plane to scout certain areas for artillery 
 targets or to see whats in your path. Lets say that the enemy has an overwhelming force ahead 
 of you that artillery would take too long to get rid of or you would be killed trying to move against 
 it. There is a multiplayer part of the game which can hold up to four players.
  
  Graphics: I have to say that the graphics look great. It is a mix of 3-D and 2-D graphics. The 
 movements were well detailed and the environmental and model damage was a nifty addition all the 
 way down to shacks and houses. Those nice looking houses that are found on maps are also fully 
 destructible, and can also be used as cover or ambush points for infantry as well. Sound: The sound 
 is pretty good. Everything sounds like the way they should sound from the fireing of the guns to 
 the tanks rolling on the ground.
  
  Value: All in all this is a great game with great replay value. Even though there are a few glitches 
 and flaws here and there it's still very fun.
  
  I give this game 8.6 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skigamer
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 22, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Blitzkrieg is a great RTS WW2 game. You can play Soviet, German and American campaigns. Like many 
 other RTS WW2 games, infantry is generally pretty weak and the focus is on tanks, however this 
 game does have strong use of artillery that can be used to fire shells across the map out of the 
 immediate field of view. The game also requires careful battlefield planning - one false move and 
 you find that the computer opponent will defeat you. The game pays careful attention to details 
 such as the armor thickess of tanks (front, side and rear) . In this manner, if you can sneak up 
 on an enemy tank and shoot it from behind you can kill it much faster. The game also makes clever 
 use of specialized infantry like snipers and also allows enemy weapons to be captured and put to 
 use. The game requires a significant amount of effort to make sure that equipment and soldiers 
 are healed and kept with ammunition. All in all, Blitzkrieg is a very realistic game. My main negative 
 comment is how difficult it is to be victorious on the higher difficulty settings. Additionally, 
 some of the missions require you to manage huge amounts of individual units which became a little 
 unwieldy at times. I personally perferred the missions which had smaller number of units that you 
 would strategically manage across the map. Other than that I went through all the missions and 
 spent well over 100 hours on the game. I also played the 2 expansion packs (Rolling Thunder, Burning 
 Horizon) which played similar to the core game (just additional missions) . If you like a realistic 
 WW2 game, this will fit the bill. Just be prepared to be frustrated a little trying to win missions 
 on anything but the easiest settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrackoSoldat
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  BLITZKRIEG is what I always like to call One of the Greatest Games for me and now let me explain 
 why. Graphics: The Graphics in blitzkrieg are pretty nice, (though artillery shots could be different 
 each hit) and even the tanks look beutiful (unlike in some games) , the tank wheels look like they 
 move, the little soldiers are perfectly made. In short: Graphics are almost perfect.
  
  Gameplay: Hm. This is a tough one. While most people tend to use a rush-kill-win tactic, Blitzkrieg 
 is much harder. It requires tactical thinking to actually win easy missions (along with a nice 
 helping of luck) , but harder ones need a lot of effort and awareness of your troops, as you will 
 most likely be defeated for one small mistake. This game is unforgiving of mistakes. Reinforcments 
 are scarce and little. Now, a common point is pathfinding. Lots of people complain about that, but 
 I think it's good that pathfinding isn't the best, becouse it adds to realism. Honestly, many people 
 want a typical game to be easier than it would be in real life. There are many types of missions 
 in the game - From taking over villages, towns and cities, to ambushing enemy groups. While Blitzkrieg 
 dosen't have special characters (A. K. A heroes) ,again, it adds to realism. War isn't won by some 
 special man. It is won by general soldiers, that just fight for their lifes. Along with that the 
 game has a wide array of troops, tanks and battle machines - from .30 Flak gun, to the incredible 
 Panzer VI TIGER II . In short : Perfect. Realistic, Great. More types of missions and remove a little 
 amount of minor bugs would be great.
  
  Sound: Very Nice. Nice music, Nice tank moving effects, Nice infantry talk (Non-translated, otherwise 
 it would be unrealistic) . 10/10 and no doubts.
  
  so... Is this game worth spending money on? I say yes. It may seem like another horrible World War 
 game, but it shines in many locations, that others fail. A great addition to anyones Collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Why does it better "Soldiers: Heroes Of World War II", a much lauded and enthused-over combat RTS? 
 Because of the following:
  
  1/ The colour pallette is no blander than "Soldiers". They're both as unexciting as a night mission 
 from "Sudden Strike".
  
  2/ The logistics side of mechanized re-inforced infantry warfare (most important in any company-or-higher 
 engagement) is still very important, and is treated pretty well in "Blitzkrieg". You go from being 
 a Company or Regimental S2 (Intelligence) and S3 (Planning & Operations) to an S4 (logistics) staffer 
 very quickly when shells/ bullets start letting loose. In "Soldiers", this is handled in detail 
 to the point of being ridiculous. You don't know who you are at times. In essence you almost are 
 thrust into the games' mechanics, rapidly becoming an expert in personal level logistics, while 
 fighting a battle as a commander simulateneously. It is TOO detailed. After a while you begin having 
 intra-staff arguments where you are the only member of staff... and with the soldiers (er... you 
 again) as well. If you refuse to obey your own orders, you'd have to courtmarshall and shoot yourself, 
 while finding a replacement for yourself at the same time and win the next puzzle. Whew, where's 
 my medication.
  
  3/ "Blitzkrieg" is quite precise with its' unit designs, behaviours and general combat resolutions 
 (damage hit points etc.) . "Sudden Strike" is so far off, I'll leave it out. "Soldiers" is so caught 
 up in ridiculous exactness (eg. refilling tanks by hand in the midst of a melee) that you quickly 
 begin to feel that the gameplay becomes hard work. I don't play computer games, even 'authentic' 
 simulations to the point where they are arduous and just a series of chores to complete the objective. 
 I'll go to work for that, not my games.
  
  4/ It can be repetitive, but then so is war. Ask anyone involved in the too often forgotten campaign 
 to break the Gothic Line (mostly involving the Battle of the Somme-like Monte Cassino) that was 
 overshadowed by D-Day. It was daily, repetitive hard slog. So was much of the North African campaign 
 once it became fairly static midway thru 1943.
  
  5/ Neglected campaigns, like the Norwejan and the French defensive battles are presented here. 
 So for historical interest, rather than popular interest (Normandy, Kursk, Stalingrad, Berlin... yawn) 
 these vicious fights are a welcome change.
  
  6/ The game is not great as such, but it is more authentic than "Sudden Strike", less oh-so-painfullly 
 accurate than "Soldiers", and more realistic (though less 'pretty') than "Codename Panzers...". 
 Overall, it is has the goods from all of the above, & can even draw a sly smirk from the player 
 at times at the intelligent AI. It then rates your abilities after each engagement. This can actually 
 inspire you to replay the battle... just to show that darn AI that you are a misunderstood Napoleon-in-the-making!!!
 
  
  Historical Note: Hitler, when in the final planning stage of the Ardennes Offensive (inaccurately 
 still named "Watch on the Rhine" as the codename was changed to "Autumn Mist" when the attack date 
 was changed from Nov.25 to Dec.10)
  said that he lost a lot of his respect for Napoleon as he only had to fight co-alition armies prone 
 to disintegrate in battle. 'nuff said!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincrazydj
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  This game is for stratgedists it is quite good because of it's Air Support feature and all in all 
 has a good plot. The graphics aren't to die for but they're good. I think it is a good WW2 game 
 but not the best. It's infantry crawl feature is quite annoying as it activates as soon as the 
 enemy shoot and progress is slowed. It isentertaining and is good for passing the time. But I imagine 
 some strategists think it's excellent me in particular thinks it's average. You can quickly immerse 
 yourself in it but it eventually wears down. Sometimes long after you first plated sometimes shortly 
 in my experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cobra_Star
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Overall I enjoyed Blitzkrieg and played it for quite a long time - more than a month. The units 
 were nice and detailed, the possible tactics were endless, and the feel of a WW2 battlefield was 
 recreated very vividly. The great thing about Blitzkrieg probably remains its units though, since 
 the vehicles and soldiers are the treat of any WW2 game. But the campaigns and scenarios catch 
 your interest as well to be sure. The graphics are also good enough for me, although some would 
 prefer better. 
  
  Yet it's not the good points that I am going to spend most of my time on. I feel it is important 
 to list the bad things about Blitzkrieg, because they can sometimes draw away from the overall 
 fun. My biggest problem with the game was that the units AI and pathfinding was pretty atrocious. 
 As already stated by other reviewers, tanks will often turn their backs around instead of back 
 up with their turrets facing the enemy when being ordered to retreat from enemy units. Well that 
 means the weakest armor is exposed and by the time your slow tank gets away it will probably be 
 already dead. To add to that annoyance, German tanks often die in one hit from T-34s, which although 
 close to reality, it means that if you haven't mastered the interface you will lose a lot of units 
 quickly. The small and clunky buttons of the interface don't help, although the Pause feature is 
 extremely helpful and necessary. 
  
  Next there is the annoying reliance on the game on mass tank rushes. Often when asked to hold a 
 position, no matter where, on the Eastern front, the Western, Africa, whatever, there will predictably 
 be an enemy onslaught of 20 tanks, maybe a few infantry and nothing else. Realistically, there 
 would be artillery assaults, infantry waves, air attacks, and also some tanks... but the level 
 designers were aware of the pathetic AI and its inability to put up a challenge other than from 
 fixed positions, so the only way around it was just to throw a million tanks at the player. Not 
 very impressive!
  
  The other annoyances are too little control over air support, idiotic field of view where an anti-tank 
 gun can be right in front of a tank, but a tank will still not see it... and also rather unbalanced 
 levels every now and then where artillery or air support is mysteriously whitheld from you because 
 it would make the game too easy. In the end, I would say that Blitzkrieg only needs more work on 
 the A. I., more balanced maps, more units, and more theatres of war. Given those additions, this 
 could have been the greatest WW2 strategy game of all time. Yet, faithfully, the developers did 
 not take that route, but only released a few unbalanced expansions, then Blitzkrieg 2: a game where 
 graphics were mindlessly improved, yet AI and unbalance issues are still a problem. 
  
  If you haven't played Panzer General 2 and you enjoy WW2 games, give that game a try. It is easily 
 at least as good as Blitzkrieg and one of the classics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stustatic
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 7:13 am PT
Review:  Blitzkrieg is one of the better of the RTS World War 2 games. By playing as either the Allies, 
 Soviets or Germans, it gives you long campaigns and some replay value. The choice of units to use 
 as well is massive, ranging from many tanks, artillery, armoured cars from almost every nation 
 that took part in the European Theater.
  
  The downside I would say was the almost pointless infantry units, which are too small and took 
 weak to take part in most missions. I found myself leaving the infantry soldiers in their starting 
 positions, and used my tanks and artillery, along with aviation to complete the missions. On those 
 few times, when German machine guns and mortars were found, then my soldiers would take over from 
 them.
  
  With great graphics, and a long time playing... I'd say take a look at it if your'e really interested 
 in historically accurate games, then this is one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: looksofat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 6, 2004 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The game has 3 campaigns- allied, soviet and german. The interface is very good. You gain 
 unit upgrades through bonus missions which can and will get boring when you play them a 100 times 
 through. The real jewel of the game are the historical battles which are greatly designed. You 
 get a lot of extra units unlike the bonus missions, and theres nothing like softening the enemy 
 line with artillery. I think that the best way to get through the game is to play the bonus missions 
 on easy and the historical on normal. Overall, i believe this is one of the best games ever made. 
 Gameplay - 9
  
  Graphics: The game and units look beautiful, soldiers have real weapons. The explosions are great. 
 I have to say that this game has a real driver problem... All of the armored units, guns, trenches... are... 
 sometime you just see the gun of the tank and so on... You look at the map and see no trenches, 
 then you move yr infantry and someone kills them. You look at the map and see a trench, then you 
 look again and you dont see one... This problem can be solved by either increasing the frame rate 
 or, like me downloading the latest drivers. (this happens only on radeon cards...) Graphics - 9
 
  
  Sound: Its very weak... But it gives the game a good background. Sound - 9
  
  Value: Im played through all of the campaigns 3 times and i still play it... Value - 10
  
  
 Tilt - 10 (coz it gives a good 9.5 rating ;=) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2004 9:32 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that I believe one can really love or hate, depending entirely on what 
 your individual interests, likes and dislikes are.
  
  As far as the game itself is concerned, it can be quite exciting, but nothing worth sitting up 
 until 2:00 in the morning as far as I am concerned - that hype went away long ago by the second 
 installment of Sudden Strike!
  
  This game only really becomes interesting if you are a hobyist like myself, who likes to customize 
 game maps, create new units, etc. - in short called "modding".
  
  The way the game engine in Blitzkrieg was designed and the lack of any form of skirmish mode that 
 most "Age" players are used to, makes in absolute paradise for those relatively few people out 
 there who have made it their life calling to design, enhance, build and implement their own battle 
 scenarios and share with others (this comment excludes the many hours of frustration brought along 
 by bugs and lack of "modding" documentation that usually ships with products like these) .
  
  I have personally spent more hours "modding" the game than actually playing it, since I personally 
 find the built-in scenarios and missions rather boring and even repetitive after the first two 
 hours or so! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charcos
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 16, 2004 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Like most of the other reviewers, I'm a little disapointed with Gamespot's review of the game. 
 In fact, I'm also VERY disapointed with Gamespots support for the game - no downloadable game guide, 
 no available walkthroughs, just a couple of cheat codes. Trully this is a highly underrated and 
 undersupported game. Maybe it's because the game is not a big seller. I don't know, but its a disapointment.
 
  
  In any case, to be fair to Gamespot, this is not your average RTS. As people have stated: there 
 is no resource gathering, & unless specifically specified in the scenario, what you start out with 
 is what you have. This could be what you want, or it could be frustrating. Beginners to RTS games 
 and combat strategy in general will probably not like it. Mistakes in this game will have a serious 
 impact on your success or failure. You cannot simply "buy" your way out of a poorly conceived attack 
 - your units will get cut to pieces and you will have to complete the rest of the mission without 
 them. Arm chair strategists like myself will (I think) really enjoy it. The lack of resource gathering 
 and the finite number of available units adds a sense of realism that I don't believe is available 
 in the average RTS with resource gathering.
  
  This is a hard game to play well. Mistakes are costly and easy to make if you do not plan your 
 operations. Recon, support, logistics and preparation are vital to just about everything you do. 
 While it is hard to play well, it is VERY satisfying to complete the missions. Once you start to 
 understand the importantce of doing proper recon before moving you start to gain a feeling for 
 the flow of the game. Once you start understanding how to "dig-in" and set your defenses you will 
 not have to play a mission through 5 times before you have all the defenses in the right places.
 
  
  The learning curve is pretty shallow in order to just learn how to move your units around and attack 
 - however, it should be noted that that is only the beginning. The docs to address tactics and 
 such, but I don't think they do it well enough the treatment is pretty dry and could use some "life". 
 I have to admit that at one point I set the game asside because I found some missions I just could 
 NOT do. Later I figured out that I had made the mistake of "upgrading" some units in a way that 
 made some of the missions MUCH more difficult than they would have been. I LOVE this game, it has 
 definitely been worth the frustration and learning curve difficulties and fighting through my own 
 mistakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seeingreen
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 8, 2004 7:37 am PT
Review:  This game was worth the money but it wasnt life changing.
  I bought this game with high hopes for a difficult but realistic RTS, and that is what I got (to 
 some extent) . This game has some new ideas that do take to a different level of difficulty. However 
 it does have some bad areas that hurt it in the long run and made it not as fun to play. The most 
 notable of these was the subpar graphics, another was that this game lacked an instant action feature, 
 not everyone wants to play either the campaign or multiplayer. One of the best ideas is that in 
 this game you need to keep all your troops supplyed with ammunition, after player this game you 
 will reallly understand the saying "amateurs study strategy, experts study logistics". This game 
 also allows you to use aircraft only when you call them in for a specific mission like dropping 
 paratroopers (another awesome feature) . The best feature (in my opinion) is that artillery can 
 be told to lay a barrage of shells down on targets far across the map and well of the screen. I 
 recomend this game now that it has gone down in price and because it is worth some time if you 
 are an RTS buff. But for RTS novices you might do better to save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qduffy
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 23, 2003 11:47 am PT
Review:  While I managed to play through several missions, I was completely uninspired by this game. Nothing 
 in particular leaps out as being really good, except the use of artillery, which I really like, 
 but there are several maddening areas that contribute to a low overall gameplay score.
  
  This game has among the worst pathfinding of any game I've ever played. Vehicles are inexplicably 
 hung up on each other, on their towed guns, and on plain old invisible phantom blobs of glue that 
 seem to be able to grab ahold of a truck and hold it in perpetuity. Vehicles would take the most 
 bind bogglingly bizarre routes to get to their destinations, often taking them within range of 
 the very enemy I wished to avoid. In fact, I can honestly say that if it wasn't for the pathfinding, 
 the game would be easy. But there are several missions I had to restart over and over again, simply 
 because my vehicles and guns were stuck. When half your force is stuck on the map, you have a problem.
 
  
  Feedback is pretty woeful. If you weren't paying attention to your healthbars, you'd often never 
 know you were under attack. No tracers, no explosions, no sound effects, simply a steadily dropping 
 healthbar. And forget about moving before you die, because nine times out of ten, you merely end 
 up driving right up to the squad or antitank gun that's killing you.
  
  Sound effects, particularly the voices are weak, and they're often used in strange locations. For 
 instance, the German soldiers regularly employ British accents and dialogue. It's confusing, because 
 it makes you think that your own troops are dying. 
  
  The unit upgrade screen doesn't always make sense, nor does it have much bearing on the game that 
 I can see. I was expecting to be able to allocate some units to my army and have them appear in 
 the next mission, but that didn't seem to be the case. On occasion, upgrades that I had done took 
 several missions to appear, making the whole exercise feel like a bit of an afterthought.
  
  I also couldn't finish the tutorial, which is kind of ridiculous. In one particular location, 
 I had to use my tanks to attack a Russian tank from the sides and rear to show the weakness of 
 the armour. Sounds good on paper, in practice it was impossible, because while the Russian tank 
 has weak armour on the rear, it also turns on a dime, negating your own tank's ability to get behind 
 it. You know a game hasn't undergone significant testing when a pretty good RTS player cannot beat 
 the tutorial mission after almost a dozen tries. Maybe there's a trick to it I never figured out, 
 but Holy God did I try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMWGamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2003 2:59 pm PT
Review:  This is quite possibly the most underated game ever. I was excited to see another WWII RTS coming 
 out but after reading Gamespot's review, my excitement turned to disappointment. A few months later 
 I decided to buy the game anyways and had low to medium expectations. I installed the game and 
 began playing and after 30 minutes of playing I lost interest and quit the game. The next day I 
 came back and sat down with it with hopes that the game would improve as I learned more about it. 
 To say it did would be a gross understatement. I became obsessed with this game immediately. The 
 depth is incredible, and this is one of the biggest turn offs to casual gamers. But to a huge RTS 
 fan like me, this was dream come true. I soon learned that tanks are worthless without infantry 
 support, and vice versa. Tanks and infantry are worthless without artillery preperation and mid-combat 
 support. And artillery is worthless without sufficient reconnaissance from scouts and specialized 
 recon planes. Unlike most RTS games where you amass an army larger than your opponents and rush; 
 Blitzkrieg takes a massive amount of planning and strategy. You CAN NOT WIN just because you have 
 more tanks than your enemy. Also, there are no bases where you collect resources and build units, 
 it is much more realistic. You have the units you start off with and then you have supply trucks 
 and other support vehicles. It takes time getting used to, as does everything else in Blitzkrieg, 
 but you will eventually learn to use them very effectively. This is also the first game where artillery 
 is critical. Without artillery, most of the missions in this game would be impossible. Before playing 
 Blitzkrieg I had no interest in the artillery aspect, but now it is probably my favorite part of 
 the game. Especially later in the game when you have in the ballpark of 10 170mm heavy guns pounding 
 away at whatever you want, whole cities can be leveled in minutes. Last but not least the game 
 features hundreds of different units. I have not idea how many because I could not even begin to 
 count them. I could go on and on about Blitzkrieg but I want to end this review so I'll say this. 
 BUY THIS GAME, YOU WILL LOVE IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RorqualMaru
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 30, 2003 11:16 am PT
Review:  Like the other readers, I was puzzled by Gamespot's review. The criticisms about sound and lack 
 of ground breaking advances are probably justified. However, in the context of the historical period 
 this game is simulating, this is an outstanding effort. The sheer number of units alone is cause 
 for praise but the gameplay and general polish of the final game are excellent. For the old time 
 board games out there, this is as close to Squad Leader as anyone has come in real time. Yes, I 
 know that Combat Mission is probably a bit higher on the realism scale but its also incredibly 
 slow paced and not much to look at. I would encourage anyone who has an interest in WW2 and real 
 time strategy to try the demo and, if you like it, pick up this game. It's well worth your time 
 and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digggd
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 22, 2003 1:22 am PT
Review:  OMG!!!! Talk about addicting. I just bought this game today and I must say that it is a lot better 
 than I though it was going to be. Especially after reading GameSpots review. Yes, this game could 
 use some better graphics, a little better sound effects, and also a zoom feature so you can zoom 
 in closer to the action. Other than that though the game is very solid, a ton of fun, and VERY 
 addictive. I got home with the game at 6 PM today and was up until 1 AM playing this, I had to 
 tear myself away so I could get some sleep. This game is a must buy for anyone looking for a very 
 good war game. Man I love the s****ers, planes, everything about this game. You can even capture 
 enemy equipment and use it as your own. Long range bombing ROCKS! I can't wait for the next installment, 
 I sure hope they have it out when I am done with this one. You can play as the Russians, Germans, 
 or Allies. Each one has it's own campain. Now off to bed, so I can spend all day tomorrow on this 
 gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolverinegary
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 8, 2003 9:33 am PT
Review:  I think Gamespot missed the mark on this one. I love this game. This is much better than sudden 
 strike & combat mission. I was hooked after playing the demo. I love the fact that there is no 
 resource management in this game. Units gain experience and you can upgrade your equipment. The 
 graphics are very well done. The sound is good. I heard & saw water splash when one of my artillery 
 shells went into the river!!! Some phrases your troops say are hillarious. The game play is good. 
 You have options of assigning keys to different troops & equipment which makes it easier to call 
 in a quick artillery strike or find your s****er in the bush.
  
  My recommendation is play the demo. After that you will be running to the store buying this game. 
 This is a great value. The modding capababilities on this game is terrific. Play Blitzkrieg and 
 have fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenway
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2003 10:32 am PT
Review:  Gamespot's rating was a bit shocking, if you expect a 3D war game, where I usually get lost with 
 the terrian and hard to find my units, you may find Blitzkrieg 7/10 or low. Despite that, it has 
 great details, good simulation and runs smooth. You can see different kinds of weapons your troopers 
 are carrying, while the supply system is so well formed that I finally understand how important 
 supply trucks are among others WW2 games. Moreover, you'll start to understand those scene in WW2 
 films while playing: Why tanks must be covered by infantry? Why Allied tank must pull back when 
 facing German Tigers? How come Tom Hanks said in Saving Private Ryan, he lost lots of men to take 
 the 88mm?
  
  Blitzkrieg is more than a game, it provides good explaination to strategy in WW2. Set difficulty 
 to Hard, and I'm sure you will have the same pressure of a WW2 commander. The game is far better 
 than Close Combat series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linnx88
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2003 8:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely great. I completely disagree with GameSpot's score. First of all, this 
 IS A 3D game, NOT 2D. Unless you have problems with your eyes or lack depth perception. The game 
 is not fast paced, you actually have to plan every attack, take it slow, do artillery preps and 
 so on, as you would in real war. You don't just mass group your units and rush through the level, 
 then you will definetly loose.
  
  This is as fine as WW2 strategy go. The game also features a very unique RPG-like progression system, 
 where you're able to exchange and upgrade your current units as you progress in missions. You have 
 a choice of controlling the fate of the Allied (USA+England) , Axis (Germany) and Commie (Soviet 
 Union) . The game also features an encyclopedia where you can view historical information about 
 every unit with specific parameters. All in all, I love this game and I'm sure you will too if 
 you're an RTS fan or a fan of Sudden Strike series (it still plays similar to it, but with MUCH 
 improved controls and info) .
  
  The game also has online gaming through gamespy or LAN which is great, there's even a mission editor 
 to build your own maps. Two words: GREAT GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nai205
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 28, 2003 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Although Blitzkrieg may appear to be a rehash of the traditional World War II squad based strategy 
 like Close Combat, good graphics and challenging gameplay make the game worthwhile. Similar to 
 Close Combat, in Blitzkrieg, you control a small army of units ranging from infantry, light armor, 
 heavy armor, support, artillery, to even aircraft. Blitzkrieg tests the players ability to use 
 combined arms tactics on both offence and defense. Three campaigns are available for play: Axis, 
 Allies, and Russian. All combat takes place in Europe and North Africa. Each campaign generally 
 has one to two historical missions available for play, along with random missions with a variety 
 of objectives. Even though the historical battles are sometimes unconnected to the rest of the 
 battles, the historical battles are often the most challenging and fulfilling to complete.
  
  While the tutorials do a good job of explaining the nuts and bolts of the units, buttons, and 
 basic tactics, the hardest part of the game to understand are the in-game and main screen menus. 
 Often, menu after menu must be accessed to change a simple setting or even to start a game. Moreover, 
 the main menu buttons are not clearly marked for the accepting of an action; for some reason, the 
 designers decided that a wedge would be the button that would mean accept. Once, in the game, 
 the menus are unjustifiably small and difficult to see. Unlike the Close Combat series, there is 
 no clear unit information available on the screen at any time. Overall, this takes a while to get 
 used to and shortcut keys dramatically simplify the process to tell a unit to advance aggressively 
 or to order artillery to put down suppressive fire.
  
  Although the controls are sometimes unduly complex, the gameplay itself is actually very good. 
 The speed can be increased or decreased to a great degree, reducing the time waiting for artillery 
 to reposition itself or for a scout to get into position. The artillery, armor, transport, and 
 air units are all excellent duplications of their re-world counterparts. While at first, all the 
 tanks or artillery may look the same, an encyclopedia is included that shows a picture of the unit, 
 relevant combat data, and a historical background for more important units like the Sherman, T-34, 
 and Tiger tanks. Once on the battlefield, combat is both exciting and engaging. For the most part, 
 units are able to correctly navigate the terrain, but in some instances, the units become confused 
 and head into incoming fire. 
  
  The whole gaming experience is very enjoyable to experienced players or players looking for a Close 
 Combat type game. Beginners or those who dislike strategy games should definitely avoid Blitzkrieg 
 like the plague. Moreover, if you dont want to take the time to learn the controls well and understand 
 infantry, armor, and artillery tactics, look for a different game. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
