-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blitzkrieg 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/blitzkrieg2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cinematic World War II gameplay, with tanks everywhere!.
 Destructible environments look pretty when they destruct.
 Lots of missions and variety, play from the Pacific to Europe.
 Fast-paced gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Historically flavored, but the antithesis of actual historical accuracy.
 Incredibly easy on the standard difficulty level.
 Though pretty, graphics are admittedly dated.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 13, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.6, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 476 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Nival Interactive
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Oct 2, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though by no means difficult or historically accurate, Blitzkrieg 2 is still a fun, fast-paced World 
 War II strategy game that lets you steamroll opponents into the ground. 

  World War II has always been a favorite for Hollywood, mainly because it was a war that lends itself 
 well to the big screen. This was a war of global scale with titanic battles, and there's something 
 awe-inspiring about that. And you can't help but get the feeling that the designers of Blitzkrieg 
 2 felt the same thing, because this is a World War II real-time strategy game that focuses much 
 more on the popular conception of the war being all about gigantic tank sweeps and epic air battles. 
 And while it may not be historically accurate, it's still quite a bit of fun to let go and roll 
 over a country as if it were a speed bump.  

          Fight as the Americans, Germans, and Russians in that great tank battle known as World 
 War II.     

  This Blitzkrieg is quite a bit different from its predecessor, though. The original game required 
 a lot of micromanagement in order to succeed. So much so that it almost became painful at times, 
 because the smallest mistake could be fatal to the entire mission, forcing you to restart the battle 
 or reload from an earlier save. This Blitzkrieg is much more forgiving, and the focus seems to 
 be far more on fun than on realism. Of course, the sequel still models armor thickness and keeps 
 count of each unit's ammunition, but those seem to be secondary concerns when all you have to do 
 is lasso a group of tanks together and blast everything in your way. Once again, it's satisfying 
 in a strange kind of way.  

  Though it's a real-time strategy game, you won't do any kind of resource gathering or base building 
 in Blitzkrieg 2; it's more of a light, tactical game in which you control combined arms units on 
 the map as you attempt to crush the enemy. The game features some big levels that offer lots of 
 variety; you'll battle from the jungles of the Pacific to the ice wastes of the Russian steppes. 
 There are also tons of historically accurate vehicles and weapons in the game.  

  On the normal difficulty level, you'll find yourself literally blitzing through the game's three 
 campaigns, which let you play as the Americans, the Germans, and the Soviet Union. The campaign 
 structure differs a bit from regular real-time strategy games in that between missions, you're 
 presented with a strategic map and you can choose which battle to participate in next. In this 
 way, you can chart your own campaign, as well as unlock new units for future campaigns. However, 
 the entire "rewrite the history of the war" thing seems overdone. Your own victories don't seem 
 to do much for the overall direction of the war (we won every battle in the Philippines decisively, 
 but the Americans were still kicked off by the Japanese) .  

  The actual battles themselves aren't too accurate, from a historical point of view. For example, 
 the Americans get tons of armor in situations when they historically didn't have any to spare. 
 And you'd have to be pretty brain-dead not to win these battles, though your main challenge will 
 be to try and preserve your force as much as possible, since units can earn experience over time. 
 Still, if you get a group of tanks rolling, they can be darn near unstoppable. Meanwhile, the game's 
 reinforcement system can generally make things easier, as you get a set number of reinforcements 
 that you can call each battle and each campaign, and so you can use them all to maximize your chances, 
 or use them minimally and husband them for future battles. For example, you can request more tanks, 
 more infantry, fighter cover to take care of pesky bombers, or your own bombers to "soften" up 
 a heavily defended target. It's pretty easy to get a decent-size tank force together and blow through 
 the defenders, who aren't that smart in most cases. Often, defenders will try and attack you after 
 you've been detected. Or, they'll huddle in trenches and wait for you to have to root them out. 
 Again, it might not be too challenging, but it's still pretty cinematic and fun -- you get the sense 
 that your forces are darn near unstoppable.  

          Things blow up real good in Blitzkrieg 2, and you won't need a high-end machine to appreciate 
 it.     

  Graphically, Blitzkrieg also keeps the 2D, sprite-based visual look of the original game, which 
 is both old-school and sort of refreshing. The problem with 3D graphics engines is that trying 
 to create any kind of destructible environment results in huge frame rate problems. That's not 
 an issue in Blitzkrieg 2-- you can pretty much blow up everything (or have tanks just knock over 
 entire forests) , and the frame rate doesn't hitch up. And though it doesn't look as cutting-edge 
 as other games, it still looks pretty good. There's something to be said for the older, 2D look 
 in this day and age, which looks more like a painting and less like a collection of polygons. And 
 the good news is that it runs fairly well even on older, slower systems, which are the types of 
 systems that wargame fans tend to have. The sound effects, meanwhile, are adequate, though the 
 music dangerously borders on corny.  

  Blitzkrieg 2 has a good mix of historical detail and light gameplay to appeal to a wide range of 
 strategy fans. You can always turn up the difficulty level to up the challenge, or you can enjoy 
 the game for what it is at the default levels: a fast-paced, light strategy game that lets you 
 steamroll other countries into submission. And there's something to be said for that. If you're 
 wary of the many hardcore, realistic, intense World War II games out there, you might want to check 
 out Blitzkrieg 2 for some beer-and-pretzels-style real-time strategy gaming.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Da_Fuzz9
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Pretty cool game, and like everyone says you steamroll your opponents which makes it fun. At theast 
 it has a map editor that lets create fun things but you have to start up the game to play your 
 map every time and shut it down to make another. The map editor is very hard to learn so I just 
 put buildings and units and give myself a bunch of shermans then rip them to shreds! No one plays 
 online anymore (bummer) but thats ok because my internet makes everything slow online because I can't 
 get high speed where i live. Pretty good graphics but i don't care to much about graphics so no 
 biggy. Sound is good enough to sound real. My favorite is an airstrike to blow the opponent to 
 shreds. There's a good amount of units. I like the artillery to supress fire it looks cool with 
 the exlosions going all around the tanks. Good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sourav_br
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  when brought home bk2 i thought it is a another sequel soo boor-ing but i was wrong, i play the 
 game again & again. it has revolutionnary 3D graphics like day & night condition, dynamic lighting 
 from the blast of tank or car in night. its game play was good like dead solder's body not stay 
 on the ground, tank's can destory everything in its path but it let me down when i saw reinforcement 
 panel add plane's. nival would separate plane system. anyway campaign was very good, i can play 
 as German, Russians & American and fight some historical battle like  
 etc....... i love its sound. its battle music is vary good. if you play first time Blitzkrieg then 
 you must play bk2 beacuse many bk1 lover's say bk1 is great then bk2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFPGamer
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  There are many great aspects to this game including fully destructible environments and persistent 
 scaring of the battlefield and good visuals. Now while historical accuracy isn't to the highest 
 degree, you get the general idea. The missions are fun and the A. I is great , not excellent however. 
 One bone I have to pick is that the infantry die too quickly..... while it is realistic , it is 
 very annoying and often makes the infantry useless. It would have been nice to see the infantry 
 use tactics on their own such as hiding behind boxes when they are near them or taking cover behind 
 a wall.
  The engineering vehicle is tough to use effectively but once you get the hang of it it becomes 
 a very valuable tool when defending an area. The battle map showing the front is creative and so 
 is the experience system when you deploying your reinforcements. Overall this is a great game for 
 WW2 game fans or for the avid war gamer. - by Thomas Pirrello 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 2, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: So this is the second game for Blitzkrieg and I would say it's not bad at all. As in 
 the first Blitzkrieg, resource gathering is non-existent, and the focus in each mission is instead 
 on harmonizing unit actions to achieve either offensive or defensive goals before running short 
 of reinforcements. The game is divided into three campaigns: the United States just after the Pearl 
 Harbor attack at the end of 1941, Germany on the march through Russia in 1941, and the Soviet Union 
 on the defensive in 1941. There are also four difficulty levels which determine the size of enemy 
 forces and the firing accuracy of individual units. So in most of the single player campain you 
 will be mostly use combined-arms tactics to complete a refreshingly diverse array of mission types, 
 including assaults on strategic points, capturing townships, escorting special units, seizing enemy 
 bases, and defending fortified locations. The historical scenarios this time around include big 
 guns like Stalingrad, Iwo Jima, Tobruk, Moscow, and the Battle of the Bulge which I have being 
 wanting to play for a long time in a RTS game. So when fighting the enemy, the AI behind the curtain 
 does a nice job of peppering you with things to react to, while keeping it tactically interesting. 
 Its one shortcoming -- the bane of all RTS games -- is its pathfinding system. Things such as tanks 
 are fine in open fields but when crossing bridges and in uban settes they get stuck and go around 
 in circles bumping in to each other. Well now aircraft can now be controlled manually and to bring 
 in air support and drop down re-enforcements. There is also there is a multiplayer part of the 
 game to which to play when you are down the single player campaine. Graphics: I would have to say 
 the graphics have being improved since the original game. Everything has being polished out, has 
 more detail and more colorful. The effects are looking better like the explotions down to the little 
 details like the tred marks of the tanks.
  
  Sound: Well I have to say that the sound is ok. Though It could be better it's not bad. Everything 
 from the responces of the soldiers to the exlotions sound good enough.
  
  Value: All in all this is a good game. I had quite a bit of fun fighting in the pasific for a change 
 for once. This is one of the few World War 2 RTS games that has being around for a while, even 
 though there are tons around. (mostly shooters) I give this game 8.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 15, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  I really, really enjoyed the first edition of Blitzkrieg, spending many hours strategizing how 
 to eliminate the enemy in the most effective way in any given scenario. I even spent many hours 
 publishing a few of my own mods and add-on's for that game.
  
  The problem with Blitzkrieg II from my own perspective is really a question of gameplay preference 
 and philosophy I guess. To be honest, I really had some mixed reactions when I started playing 
 for the first time.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  You probably know that feeling when you take a game out of the box, install it and give it that 
 first spin around the block so to speak. In some rare cases you really get that warm and fuzzy 
 feeling that this is going to be a really good game to play - like the feeling I got when I played 
 my first 30 minutes or so of Company of Heroes.
  
  Unfortunately this was not one of those instances for me. Perhaps it had to do with expectations 
 based on the previous edition. What I expected was really a much better 3D environment to a game 
 that was already quite good.
  
  That's not the case here. In fact, my initial gameplay impressions were more that of an arcade 
 game than a RTS. In fact, there's very little strategy needed to play. The only thing you need 
 is to keep an eye on your available re-enforcement levels and simply keep on calling those units 
 up during any particular mission until you've blown the whole environment to hell and back.
  
  The interface is good and very easy to use and everything is pretty much in the right place 
 for a fast-paced kill 'em all experience.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are pretty OK but nothing to write home about. The camera angles are fairly restricted 
 and anything that you zoom into (as far as the game allows) , exposes some rather rudimentary texturing 
 and animations.
  
  Sound:
  
  Very much built on the first edition of Blitzkrieg as far as I can hear.
  
  Value:
  
  At 
 the local price, I would say the game is fair value, and given the fact that it now comes with 
 nicely integrated modding tools, I may just still take a more in-depth liking in it once I get 
 stuck into making some of my own maps and units.
  
  Who Should Get It:
  
  Anyone who enjoys a fast-paced shoot and kill type of experience where there's very little attention 
 given to actual battle logistics, tactics or strategy for that matter. Simply line up you tanks, 
 send your troops in to their doom and get a few bombers to blast the living daylights out of everything 
 in sight until you run out of resources and simply call up re-enforcements.
  
  Who Shouldn't Bother:
  
  All those folks who thought they were getting a nice 3D version of 
 Blitzkrieg I or folks who enjoyed stuff like the Sudden Strike series, where you really need to 
 understand something about battle tactics and theatre of war strategies to beat the opposition 
 - yes even the AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 15, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I have played Blitzkrieg (BK) many times. I haven't bothered with the expansions or releases like 
 Cuban Missile Crisis (I have People's General for that) . The original game, as I reviewed it earlier 
 this year (yes, some of us take time to get to Internet access) , tries so very hard to be a faithfull 
 recreation of battlefield tactics and strategies of re-inforced company sized units. AND, it succeeds 
 on so many levels! Try a Tank or Infantry rush, and even though you may 'win' the scenario, you 
 are penalized (in the bad sense) when it comes to the debrief. Blitzkrieg 2 is more 'consumer-friendly'. 
 In fact, it has more in common with Sudden Strike II than it would want to admit. Gone are the 
 intricate management roles of re-supply, repairs and healing. These were what made you stand out 
 as a good or great tactictian in the original. Failure to recon an area, keep your artillery supplied 
 and your units repaired/healed impacted greatly on your after action summary. All of these are 
 gone. You can't heal infantry, repair tanks or resupply artillery. You can only re-inforce. Period! 
 Play the game on the Easy settings, and its' a doddle. play the game on Normal at the least if 
 you are any self-respecting war-gamer. Unlike the original, this game is just that. A game. It's 
 fun, engaging but will not tax your tactical prowess in any way. Accept it for what it is and you'll 
 merrilly blast your way through the Camapigns. It's a lot prettier than the original too.
  
  NB: As I said above, this game is very much along the lines of Sudden Strike II , so I would 
 wait, as I did, to grab it at a bargain price. It'll pass some time while you catch your breath 
 between scenarios in Company of Heroes . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryan92677
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I had high expectations for this game because I played the original Blitzkrieg, and this one is 
 great. The game play is amazing and the sound is wonderful. The graphics could be better but if 
 they made the game 3D, the buildings would not be as destructible. It is very different from the 
 original, you have more freedom to do what you want and you can decided how you want to win the 
 battle. You have to play this game to see how great it is. I would definitely recommend this game. 
 Who besides the Germans could make a better World War two game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the more realistic WWII games that I have played and one that has a lot of hidden 
 depth and surprises.
  
  At first glance is does not look that impressive and I am the first to admit that it is looking 
 a little dated these days. Everything that you can see works though and is functional in some form 
 so it is not all that bad.
  
  The interface is clean and clear and easy to use and understand which is very important in this 
 type of game. There are tonnes of different types of units and vehicles that you can use and they 
 are all very authentic in their detail and in what they can and can't do.
  
  You take up the role of a divisional commander in the game, sending your troops and vehicles all 
 over the well constructed maps to engage the enemy. There is no resource management here either, 
 you get what you need (in terms of troops etc) at the start of the mission and it is up to you 
 how you use them.
  
  All in all it is a nice little game and can be very intense and fun to play but you have to like 
 this genre to get the most out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jotpot
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:50 pm PT
Review:  The single player missions in the game is what really makes the game a good rts. the multiplayer 
 is pretty good but their are never any servers!!
  their will eventually be more servers to play on though as people pay more attention to the game. 
 the dissipointmint i think that is in the game is that there is no cpu battle option or ''skirmish'' 
 in the game which i think is a key thing to have in a good rts to get to understand the game better 
 and to have some extra fun. so, if you love good campaighns, this is a great way to go, but if 
 you want more out of the game sometimes like when single player gets old, and when you dont feel 
 like playing online, and there is no skirmish option, the games weakness shows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2005 10:47 am PT
Review:  If your the World war 2 lover. Meaning Love to play anything that = BLOW KILL AND WIN THE OLD GREAT 
 WAR then this is another game for you. The game play is good but lacks graphics for a part two 
 game. 
  
  The game is almost the same as part one but alittle more added. The neat thing is artilley, if 
 you have those artilley guns for your mission then all you need is to position, get some supply 
 trucks rolling to refill your ammo for the artilley pieces and then blast away areas of darkness 
 hoping to hit your target. 
  
  The game is nicely done but sometimes can cause problems such as running around your map looking 
 for enemies that are hiding, finding artilley (enemy's) and sometimes finding your little soldiers. 
 
  
  The game also adds alittle newbie help for artilley if you fire or your enemy fires red cycles 
 appear on the map on where the artilley has fired from meaning you to target there but at the same 
 time while you hitting the red area the enemy can see your artilley firing and do the same which 
 is the same as part one so if you screw up on a firing then you can end up dieing.
  
  Some missions have it wear you are completely out number and sometimes have the enemy coming with 
 more and more support you kick your butt but part 2 has some missions where if you lose a guy they 
 send in another to help (spawns over and over unit that guy is done his objective if he as one) . 
 
  
  Over all the game is great and the series is good to play for those war fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bouwen007
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 18, 2005 6:49 am PT
Review:  Its a superb game on graphics but the gameplay isnt so good at all. For me its a little bit 
 to easy. It+s a pretty long game and it doesnt get boring, maybe a little bit after a long time 
 but thats only for the ones how are are not interested in this genre. There are not big problems 
 in the game but just some little mistakes. You also have to have a good running pc, ore he will 
 not drive so fast on your computer. sO i THINK YOU WOULD BUY THIS GAME AND i HOPE YOU HAVE A LOT 
 OGF FUN PLAYING IT!!!! Goodbye,
  Matthijs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gobbles29
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 14, 2005 8:35 am PT
Review:  I loved the original Blitzkrieg and had high hopes for this sequel. Unfortunately, the problems 
 with pathfinding and AI are just too much and keep this game from being great. Other reviewers 
 have noticed the same exact things i have. Your tanks do a terrible job of moving around. They 
 always seem to run into each other while turning around. If you need to retreat, you are screwed. 
 The tanks usually turn their backs to the enemy instead of just reversing and keeping the guns 
 aimed at the enemy while the entire time, exposing the weakest armor which Blitzkrieg has done 
 such a great job incorporating into the game. Too bad your guys get killed because they don't know 
 any better. The supply situation is also gone backwards. It was always a bit of a task but one 
 that needed to be done in the original Blitzkrieg. Now, pick your fights carefully because if your 
 tanks get damaged, they will be damaged for the entire scenario. Wait for more patches is all i 
 can say and hope for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: espme
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 12, 2005 7:29 pm PT
Review:  This game should have been the best rts/war game ever, or at least very close, but as is there just 
 seems to be something missing, plus there are some technical problems that should not exist. I still 
 think it's great but be cautious. Where in the world is the Gamespot review? As of December 12th 
 still no review. That's a little spooky. I played the first blitzkrieg 14 hours in one day and i 
 would say this one is better, just not as addictive. The addition of the reinforcement button is 
 great as well, but i don't like the overly increased power of infantry versus my tanks. Haven't gotten 
 to into the mission editor yet, it's located only if you are in windows and not in the game itself, which 
 is a little weird and i think another might have thought that there wasn't one, but it looks deep. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Dukes
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 7, 2005 9:54 am PT
Review:  I loved blitzkrieg, now i like blitzkrieg 2 even more, better visuals sounds, and gameplay. I really 
 like how they use reenforcments, you can call in what you want know... you want more infantry call 
 um' in. The game was really slow w/ mutiplayer at first being released with a couple bugs, that 
 made it very frustrating, however they have been fixed now. So if you like realism and great stratagy 
 this is the game! one of my favorite RTS's!
  
  They dont have skirmish's though, so thats the only let down my own opinion, so once your done 
 with the 3 single player campains which take about 5-10 hours depending on your style of play, 
 thats it... you can really only play online which is what i do anyways... heh, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elentari
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  For those of you that loved Blitzkrieg 1, DONT BUY Blitzkrieg 2! I have never spent so much time 
 screaming at my monitor in disbelief & the incredibly stupid things my units do when trying to 
 pick a path or target.
  
  Gone is the trusted artilery of B1, gone are the reconisance units to use the artilery & spot the 
 area before you send your precious tanks into the frey. But instead you get a whole lot of specialised 
 infantry units, that have less range than the enemies main infantry so any perks you get are instantly 
 negated by the fact that you are guned down before you can get near them! Tanks are now toast as 
 soon as any infantry get with in grenade throwing range, which is about 2 nanoseconds after they 
 appear in your resticted view. Upon finding yourself in said infantrys pinic area, you will attempt 
 a hasty retreat back to your dawdling infantry, but no, the rear tanks that are out of gun range, 
 (about 2 cm further than grenade range) , will back up slowly, the tanks closest to the targets 
 will turn their tanks & expose the weakest armour to the enemy, plus turn the hull machine guns 
 away from said infantry, (whose range is actually less than the greande throwing range) then sit 
 there banging into each other as they try to pick a path away! So if you come out of the said frey 
 with anything more than the last 2 tanks you can consider yourself lucky. This would be nullified 
 if you could advance your tanks in a line, but no, as soon as you click move or engage & move, 
 they spend 15 seconds banging into each other trying to form back into a column, & then by that 
 time the lead tank has advanced ahead by itself & benn toasted by some unknown AT gun from goodness 
 knows where, as you missed the action trying to sort your other tanks out from the ammo truck that 
 had decided to replenish itself at the supply depot on the other side of the map through enemy 
 controled territory.
  
  But wait, there is more, the mid game Tank Destoryers have less or equal punch as the medium tanks, 
 but no mg's! So I guess they are useless, as they cant entrench either. The supply trucks, which 
 are way to few & cant be brought, are no longer able to top up the infantry units or captured weapons 
 with men. Plus they supply ammo so slowly that you spend a considerable amount of time waiting 
 for your tanks & guns to get resupplied. Even at 1 truck to 1 AA gun ratio, I ran out of ammo fending 
 off regulary timed infantry assaults. Dont even start me on the path picking of them, oh, lets 
 park the truck on the fars side of the depot & walk all the way around to reload it! ARRRGGGHHH!
 
  
  Well the straw for me was Stalingrad, where my units are getting toasted the moment they appear 
 on the map as the enemy has entrentched Infantry & AT positions 6cm from where you spawn. I mean 
 for goodness sake, I hadnt even had time too group them! Add to this that you have 3 simultainous 
 point happening at once in the same situation I am sure you can imagine the stress! My tanks of 
 course are using the main gun of the infantry whilst the big AT guns toast me one at a time, I 
 choose them their target, they slowly move the turet, fire 1 shot then go back to the infantry.
 
  
  Oh & by the way, this is the easy level, which CDV need to go look up in an ENGLISH dictionary 
 - meaning: 1 - not needing much effort. 2 - free from pain, care or anxiety. Both of which this 
 game was not. For those that like a nighmare, thats what the hard level is for, for those of us 
 that come home from a crazy day at work, we want EASY!!!! As defined where my 4 MkIIIj can toast 
 a KV1 & NOT where my 8 MkIIIj's all die to 1 entrench T34.
  
  Unistalled! Life is short.
  
  Good aspects:
  #Liked the commanders interface, where your branches (ie AT, or Med Tank) 
 gain rank & ability.
  #Reinforcement idea is good, but needs ability to get a few straight away at game start, not 1 
 a minute.
  #New infantry is cool, but specialists need beefing up.
  #Tutorial was good. Although please explain the Ground attack aircraft better.
  
  Bad Aspects:
 
  #Where is the artilary & the spotters?
  #Please fix the path finding!!!!!! this is worse than B1!!! Hear me WORSE!
  #Give us back the 
 abilty to heal troops & replenish soldiers, plus equip captured weapons. 
  #Can we have some space/room & time to organise ourselves before the enemy onslaught right infront 
 of the spawn area, compounded by the appauling path picking where you need to move stuff along 
 way out of the way so you can get into formation.
  #please make EASY, just that... this is a nightmare. & yes, I can play the game, completed B1 on 
 hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csm101
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 15, 2005 7:59 pm PT
Review:  I greatly enjoyed the original Blitzkrieg, and therefore had eagerly awaited the sequel. But after 
 installing and playing BK2, I have to say I'm very disappointed. The graphics, although now in 
 3D, which allows you to zoom and tilt the camera, are too bright and garish, and the detail level 
 just isn't there. The original game is still better in this area.
  The GUI is huge and clunky, the original games compact version was IMO much better. You can minimize 
 the GUI, but you lose a lot of info that way, unless you memorize all the commands. Definitely 
 a step backward.
  Sound quality is decent, music isn't bad, and graphics wise the explosions and flames are well 
 done.
  But the biggest problem is the gameplay. The core units of the original are gone, with promotable 
 commanders taking their place. This is a good idea in theory, but it doesn't seem to work out too 
 well in practice.
  Also gone (for the most part) are supply and repair vehicles. You get a few very late in the campaign, 
 but not enough to get the job done. What were they thinking; supply and repair are indispensable 
 in real life. The missing supply/repair makes you have to watch your ammo too much; if you run 
 out you're screwed. Also gone are replacements for depleted squads, and squads can no longer be 
 split up - very irritating! Ambulances are gone, and troops can no longer heal up in buildings 
 either.
  Artillery is also MIA until it is "unlocked" very late in the campaign. Apparently all this was 
 done to "simplify" the game and make it more accessible to the masses, but all they've accomplished 
 is to "dumb down" the game, and alienate players of the original Blitzkrieg. Unit AI and pathfinding 
 is atrocious as well. There is a patch which claims to fix some of that, but not that I can see. 
 In any case, unless there are some extensive patches forthcoming to address these issues, I recommend 
 staying away from this one. Go back to playing BK1, or if you've just gotta have BK2, wait 'til 
 it hits the bargain bin, which probably won't be long... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheefieweefie
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 12, 2005 12:19 am PT
Review:  As soon as you use the rotation option you will enjoy this game 100% more than the first. Just 
 watching your units move over hills and plains of europe you will be hooked. All the units move 
 smoothly and they never stutter or lag. The biggest upgrade and most important is the "path finding" 
 and this time they really worked the issue. Everything is still realistic where your units turn 
 stop and go but infantry moves out of the way and it handles beautifully. The action is great and 
 its not "arcady" at all. I was so scared they were going to make a "c&c" type game . Tanks knock 
 down trees and the little details such as the shade over a tank when its under a tree is perfect..... Eye 
 candy. So anyway buy this game if you enjoyed the first BK or if your looking for a real RTS. Realism 
 is what the Germans are offering up here and thats what will catch you immediately plus who else 
 can make a better WWll game. Really, who? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
