-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blitzkrieg 2: Fall of the Reich
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/blitzkrieg2fallofthereich/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intense battles with lots of armor.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Insane difficulty.
 predictable, derivative mission design.
 control problems.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.4
Critic Score: 5.6, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 62 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Nival Interactive
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Feb 22, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Brutal difficulty is the only thing that sets this WWII real-time strategy game apart from its predecessors. 
 

  The Blitzkrieg real-time strategy franchise enters its fourth year with another stand-alone expansion 
 in Blitzkrieg 2: Fall of the Reich, which is a happy title for some of us because it indicates 
 that CDV may be coming to the end of the line. This has been a pretty good series overall, but 
 at this late date, everything has been done, and the developers at Nival Interactive are now just 
 spinning their wheels.  

          The engine may be old, but it still blows stuff up really well.     

  This is essentially 
 a mission pack rounding up some of the climactic battles from the eastern front in the waning days 
 of WWII. There are two separate campaigns. In one, you try to guide the Soviets into Poland, while 
 in the other, you desperately attempt to hold off the Red Army with Hitler's forces. Each campaign 
 features some fairly offbeat historical battles that you don't normally find in WWII RTS games, 
 particularly the German one that kicks off in the Baltic states. But the missions themselves are 
 totally formulaic and will seem like old ground for anyone who has previous experience with the 
 series.  

  Virtually every assignment begins with your having to achieve some relatively simple goal, such 
 as capturing a train yard or destroying an armored column, and progresses to what is almost always 
 a huge battle over an enemy-occupied town. Every aspect of the game is so predictable that you 
 could set your watch by it: Take your opening complement of troops and tanks into the fray; watch 
 them be whittled down by a tremendous number of enemy antitank guns, soldiers, and tanks; order 
 up reinforcements, which almost always consist of armor because tanks generally make more sense 
 than soldiers, artillery, or aerial support; and throw everything together to make a big push into 
 town. Occasionally, events are a bit more mixed up, as in one Russian mission that opens with you 
 leading commandos to take out German artillery, but the end always seems to be a street-to-street 
 scrap over a village.  

  The only thing that interrupts this cyclic action is grueling difficulty. "Brutal" doesn't begin 
 to describe how tough the campaigns are, even the opening missions. Odds are usually stacked against 
 you to a ridiculous degree. Countrysides and towns are packed with antitank guns, artillery, tanks, 
 entrenched soldiers, and machine-gun nests. If Hitler really had this much hardware remaining in 
 1945, people would be speaking German in Vladivostok right now. It's funny how much armor comes 
 rolling out when you venture into a town because there typically seem to be too many tanks to fit 
 on the small streets. You get the sense of clowns spilling out of a tiny car.  

  Still, you can't really laugh at any of this because the sheer numbers you face make most levels 
 almost impossible, even on the "easy" difficulty setting. Special objectives that often have to 
 be completed before getting into the mission proper are particularly hard. In the commando mission 
 described above, you guide a couple of dozen troops against practically an entire enemy platoon, 
 bolstered by a pile of artillery that can chew you up long before you get close enough to do any 
 damage to it. Even when the field of battle is somewhat level, it often feels like you're being 
 cheated because your units frequently get incinerated by fire from unseen artillery units.  

  Awkward controls make things even tougher. A single enemy light tank, partially hidden behind 
 a collapsed building or a wall, can often blast an advancing column of a dozen or more tanks into 
 scrap metal because it's hard to navigate through narrow town streets. These cramped conditions 
 also wreak havoc on targeting, with tanks stubbornly refusing to fire on enemies that they are 
 right on top of when they are near a building or wall. This makes it tough to coordinate an effective 
 town assault. Thinking tactically always leads to frustration, and all-out tank rushes tend to 
 break on the heavy defenses.  

          Fritz's tour of the beautiful fall foliage in Latvia goes horribly awry.     

  You've 
 seen everything else before. There are a few new armored units and rewards, but nothing stands 
 out. Multiplayer is exactly the same as it was in the original Blitzkrieg 2. Visuals and sound 
 are also held over, which is hard to complain about because both have aged pretty well. The graphics 
 do a great job of depicting the explosiveness of armor combat, while the audio is suitably bombastic, 
 if a bit too heavy on repetitive yells when the infantry goes into battle. Still, don't expect 
 this game to be comparable to something modern, such as Company of Heroes.  

  For dedicated fans only, Blitzkrieg 2: Fall of the Reich is overly familiar and far too difficult 
 to be enjoyable. Don't sign up for this tour of duty unless you're a glutton for punishment.   
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 17, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Blitzkrieg 2: Fall of the Reich Is the stand alone expantion pack to the original Blitzkried 
 2 game. This game spans three major offensives from the final days of fighting on the Eastern front 
 and covers Sixteen historically based missions across 10 new maps on both the Soviet and German 
 campaigns in the long Siege of Budapest, Fortress Kurland, and the Soviet Operation Bagration. 
 You also still get to fight your way though the jungles of Asia to the deserts of North Africa. 
 There is still the problem with utter confusion when large groups of tanks or infanty are moving 
 accross the map and start to bump in to each other and soon be walking around in circles trying 
 to look for a path. Well the missions are pretty simple and preditable, such as capturing a train 
 yard or destroying an armored column, and progresses to what is almost always a huge battle over 
 an enemy-occupied town. The thing that I like is the new units and equipment you get to use in 
 the expantion.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty good even though it's mostly in 2-D. Everything is color full 
 and look nice when things blows up. Sound: The sound of the game are ok. Things sound the way they 
 should sound like the gun fire and explotions but the voice acting could use a little bit more 
 work. Also the soundtrack is pretty good and suits the game.
  
  Value: All in all this game is allright but it's not a game that I would go back and play again. 
 There is certainly a lack of World War Two RTS game which is the reason why I bought and played 
 this game but it could of being better.
  I give this game 7.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greyfoxgti
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  With titles like Heroes of Might and Magic V, Night Watch (both released in 2006) and Etherlords 
 (2001 and the sequel in 2003) in their portfolio, Nival Interactive has gained itself a pretty 
 good name in the computer gaming industry. Ever since 2003 they seem to have developed a passion 
 for WWII inspired tactical strategy games. Silent Storm combined turn-based tactical combats and 
 role-playing set while Blitzkrieg was a highly appreciated RTS. The time has come for a tremendous 
 focus on new strategic opportunities, global war and the gritty realism of historically accurate 
 battles of the WWII. It is time for Blitzkrieg 2  Fall of the Reich.
  
  Story
  Along three considerable (still historically accurate) campaigns that propose about 80 challenging 
 missions, the player will be facing the battlegrounds that put to the test the German, Soviet and 
 US military commanders during the WWII. From the heart of Europe to the isles in the Pacific all 
 the major battlefronts will reveal themselves to you in an attempt to demonstrate your qualities 
 as a strategist.
  
  Concept
  An in-game encyclopedia presents over 250 realistic modeled military units of the great forces 
 engaged in the war  USA, Great Britain and France, USSR, Germany and Italy as well as Japan. Blitzkrieg 
 is a tactical strategy so it concentrates on troop maneuvering and taking advantage of the grounds. 
 No building construction is involved as all needed extra units are called into battle as reinforcements. 
 Ask for infantry units, engineers, tanks and even air and naval assistance.
  
  The commanders gain experience points for every battle according to the number of enemy units destroyed. 
 Each new level provides additional special abilities for the units, some of them proving to be 
 extremely efficient on the battlefield (such as the Grenade Bundle that increases the damage done 
 by throwing grenades yet also depletes the ammo supply faster) .
  
  The game adds even more complexity as it only allows for a certain number of reinforcement calls. 
 While calling these early in the game can provide you with certain superiority over the enemy troops, 
 there will be less forces for the end part of the battle and you never know whos in the hiding 
 just waiting for an ambush.
  
  Gameplay
  The game seems to follow the words that Karl von Clausewitz stated  The best form of defense 
 is attack. With this in mind be ready to clear out the great battlefronts of the WWII in an attempt 
 to secure key locations or escort different convoys. Once in a while youll also be asked to defend 
 certain locations, yet this is no different as it is also done with the help of military units, 
 the only buildings available being the ones that are already in place  houses, diverse social 
 buildings (such as depots or cathedrals for example, that can provide a good shooting hideout for 
 the infantry) and the occasional fortifications (well mere light cover such as trenches) .
  
  At all time whats taken into consideration are the armor plating, penetration effectiveness, 
 reload times, angle of shots and unit experience offering a realistic combat modeling. It all sums 
 up to a rather challenging gaming experience. You cannot just bust into the enemy base and hope 
 you can overcome all their defenses based on a full load of tanks. Youll need to put to work your 
 long range artillery and maybe some air raids could prove useful. Remember that the enemy has pretty 
 much the same potential as your own troops, so make good use of the 21 (yes twenty one) speed levels 
 to calculate everything in advance.
  
  Also remember that you do not have an infinite supply
  of ammo for your units so be sure to call 
 in some suppliers as well a some engineers that can take care of the scratches to your tanks. You 
 basically cant really afford to loose any units, so plan carefully. While it seemed to me that 
 sometimes the computer cheats a little when concealing his infantry troops in the trenches, the 
 overall experience is very well balanced and extremely engaging. I do, however, have to recommend 
 this game only to the real tactical strategy fans as it may seem a little to complex to the rest 
 of the RTS community.
  
  Video
  While its not exactly cut of the edge graphics, Blitzkrieg pleases the eye with realistic looking 
 environment (fully destructible I might add) and a good amount of unit details. It is all dressed 
 up in 3D clothes (unlike its 2D predecessor) and the game engine allows for some zooming (not too 
 much though) . I must admit that the shooting and explosions are well realized along with the overall 
 damaging to the units (once theyve been blown up, the tanks can be totally destroyed by other 
 tanks that pass over them) . The great battlefields  such as the Philippines, Tobruk, Moscow, Stalingrad 
 or Ardennes  are accurately reproduced adding to the overall realistic look.
  
  Sound
  Without being extremely impressing, the sound is good, each nation communicating in its own language 
 (objectives are in English so dont worry) . There isnt a very wide variety of sounds, but at least 
 the short sentences are spoken in the corresponding language. Aside from (Im not even sure I can 
 call it that, but lets just say) the voice acting the background music is something of a suspense 
 movies repetitive sounds.
  
  Multiplayer
  No strategy game would be complete without a multiplayer option. Blitzkrieg is no exception. The 
 game proposes an online gaming experience in which you can challenge all the best players on the 
 official servers or you can choose to play with your close friends in a LAN. Of course defeating 
 a human opponent is often more satisfying than just defeating the computer so the multiplayer promises 
 an even more thrilling challenge. Unfortunately, there isnt much variety in the choice of maps 
 that you can play on. On the other hand, the beauty of this game relies on the tactics used on 
 the battlefield and your mastery at forming a balanced force so the small number of maps is not 
 necessarily a great minus.
  
  Conclusion
  If youre thinking this is just another WWII inspired strategy game, youre wrong. It comes with 
 a complex experience that will delight you with some of the greatest battlefronts the war ever 
 extended to. Which is more, it was specially created for the really passionate tacticians out there, 
 considering every aspect of the players actions. Remember that everything is important in the 
 fight: armor plating, reload times, angle of shots, unit experience and especially movement preparations. 
 Do not expect a tank to move out of the way as quickly as you clicked on the ground to designate 
 a new location. It takes time for it to rotate its turret to head to that spot. It also takes 
 time to overcome any terrain challenges, so be sure you wont have to change your mind too often 
 on where you need to place your units. Taking advantage of the long range artillery, a confused 
 or undecided enemy is much of a sitting duck. I really feel like I have to say it again  its 
 a highly tactical RTS so give it a try if youre just curious, but unless youre really passionate 
 about this aspect dont expect the game to seem too easy to you. With these being said I bid you 
 Good luck! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
