-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blitzkrieg: Burning Horizon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/blitzkriegdesertfoxworkingtitle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  9, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.3, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 160 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Nival Interactive
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Jun 13, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Blitzkrieg's captivating blend of real-time mouseslinging and realistic handling of WWII combat 
 tactics still delivers in this single-player-focused follow-up. 

  Blitzkrieg, a pretty good 2003 tactical real-time strategy game set during -- wait for it -- World 
 War II, is spawning a pair of expansion packs in 2004. The first of these releases, a stand-alone 
 add-on called Burning Horizon, has been cranked out quickly by developer Nival Interactive and 
 partner La Plata Studios, and it provides more of the same gameplay with the noteworthy absence 
 of multiplayer modes. Solo missions here are so similar to those featured in the original that 
 they might as well be outtakes from that game. But this isn't necessarily a bad thing, since Blitzkrieg's 
 captivating blend of real-time mouseslinging and realistic handling of WWII combat tactics still 
 holds up.  

          Advances must be planned carefully or you will wind up getting blitzed yourself.     

 
  There still isn't any economic model or resource gathering to be found in Burning Horizon, so 
 you just take the troops and hardware provided at the beginning of a mission and try to complete 
 objectives with what you've got. Occasionally you'll be rewarded with reinforcements, but play 
 overall is focused on making do with the starting allotment of soldiers, tanks, artillery, support 
 units, and aerial support.  

  The big difference here is the subject matter. Where the original Blitzkrieg missions saw you fighting 
 across European battlefields that have been depicted in so many strategy games that they've practically 
 lost all impact and relevance, here the main focus is on an 18-mission single-player campaign fought 
 by German General Erwin Rommel. You fight with the Desert Fox from the beginning of the war in 
 Belgium to the North African campaign and then back to Europe for the D-Day aftermath. All of the 
 key battles in Rommel's career are featured, including Ardennes, Tobruk, El Alamein, and Sicily. 
 There are also a number of one-off missions in other regions, including some in the Pacific that 
 pit the Americans against the Japanese.  

  In all, there are over two-dozen big missions in the expansion. These missions can provide a good 
 several hours of gameplay, which is impressive for an expansion pack. However, it must be weighed 
 against the complete absence of multiplayer modes. Nival and publisher CDV have excised all multiplayer 
 options in Burning Horizon, presumably to make buying the somewhat inferior original game still 
 an attractive option.  

  Along with the new theaters of war comes around 50 new units. Most are just variations on familiar 
 themes, like the Panzer IV tank and some new German artillery types. Others, however, are brand 
 new. The US Marines, Japanese infantry, Japanese Zero fighter planes, and troops from nations such 
 as Australia add a lot of spice to the original complement of 300 or so units; they also expand 
 the scope of the game to encompass more of the war.  

  Missions follow the same lines as those in the first game. It's vital to use units efficiently 
 and effectively. Combat is much more realistic than it is in traditional RTS games. Despite the 
 name of the series, in Burning Horizon you can't blitz the opposition or fight battles of attrition. 
 You have to match units and send them into engagements that they will have a good shot at winning. 
 This means that you can't band-select a mass of infantry and throw them into battle with even a 
 small tank column -- unless you want to see your troops splattered across the landscape.  

  To avoid this fate, you have to appreciate the complexity of the combat engine. All units have 
 appreciable strengths and weaknesses. Tanks, for instance, are powerful, but vulnerable to individual 
 soldiers with grenades in close combat. Artillery pieces, even the mobile ones that don't need 
 to be towed into place, are very slow moving and take forever to rotate into firing position. So 
 while the artillery pieces can decimate single columns of advancing soldiers and armor, pincer 
 movements take them out quite easily. Even the effectiveness of air support is limited by the ready 
 availability of antiaircraft guns and the vulnerability of low-flying planes.  

  Artificial intelligence appears improved over Blitzkrieg (a good thing due to the MIA multiplayer) , 
 although enemies are also placed in more intelligent locations on the maps. Most missions play 
 out like intricate and incredibly difficult set-piece ambushes where you have to figure out where 
 to place your infantry, artillery, and tanks. You then have to work out a sensible order of advance 
 so that you'll be able to stand a chance of surviving a withering enemy barrage from dug-in enemy 
 troops, machine-gun nests, and armor.  

  It's impossible to surprise the enemy, too. You have to come up with impressive tactical approaches 
 to each engagement, as there are no gimmicky back doors where you can show up unannounced and demolish 
 an unprepared column of troops (this is particularly true in the later stages of the African campaign) . 
 The British have superior numbers and positioning in nearly every battle. If the real-life battle 
 of Tobruk contained as many British tanks as the game portrays, it would be truly amazing that 
 Rommel was actually able to win the day there.  

  Often, there isn't much for the computer-controlled opponents to do aside from counter your attacks. 
 Yet even in this limited manner these opponents show a great deal of cunning; they always sit back 
 and wait for you to expose yourself. Computer units typically go on limited forays, usually to 
 counter whatever offensive moves you might make. Once you've been beaten back, computer forces 
 withdraw behind the fog of war and wait to see what you'll try next, or they will send in reinforcements 
 if needed. For example, if you don't quickly seize artillery pieces after killing their operators, 
 you often find the enemy trucking in fresh troops to man the abandoned weapons.  

  Missions evolve like chess matches where you have to probe the enemy to decide on a plan of attack. 
 A lot of tension is developed, although some of that is lost after you get about a dozen missions 
 into the game and discover that all objectives are pretty much the same. These are mostly historical 
 conflicts taken from the history books, so it's hard to complain about the realistic nature of 
 the goals; however, there just isn't enough variety. At least the designers made some attempt to 
 liven things up. The African mission where you have to hold the line against four successive British 
 tank assaults is a standout, as is the intense El Alamein retreat under fire.  

  Speaking of similarities, Burning Horizon looks and sounds exactly like Blitzkrieg. The developers 
 didn't even bother to include the "Burning Horizon" subtitle on the main menu screen. Still, this 
 isn't really a negative thing, because the graphics engine features extremely detailed units (tanks 
 lurch to life and belch clouds of diesel dust, for example) and fully destructible landscapes. 
 Audio effects include a bombastic musical score and lots of great incidental sound clips. There 
 is a tremendous amount of German dialogue in the Rommel campaign, adding to the atmosphere and 
 giving you the impression that you really are leading troops into battle like the famed Afrika 
 Korps.  

          Air support is a big help, but its effectiveness is limited by plentiful enemy AA guns 
 and the vulnerability of making low-level attack runs against ground targets.     

  Unfortunately, the fact that Burning Horizon so closely mimics its predecessor also means that 
 Nival hasn't addressed some shortcomings. The control interface remains far too small, with tiny 
 buttons crammed into a cramped panel that make it too easy to click the wrong function in the heat 
 of battle. There isn't enough notification that units are under attack. Battles often end before 
 you realize they've taken place, especially on the larger maps where you are forced to fight on 
 more than one front at once. And battle sound effects are disappointingly flimsy, especially when 
 you consider the amount of carnage depicted on most maps.  

  But that's about it for the disappointments. Save the strange decision to remove multiplayer modes, 
 Blitzkrieg: Burning Horizon is the ideal expansion pack. It amplifies the core concepts of the 
 original game and ramps up both the AI and the difficulty without straying from the tactics-first 
 philosophy that allows this series to stand apart from the RTS crowd.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Blitzkrieg: Burning Horizon is the first stand-alone (meaning you don't need the oringal 
 installed to play this game) expantion pack to the original Blitzkrieg game. This game features 
 18 missions built around legendary 7th Panzer Division and notoriously branded the Desert Fox 
 Erwin Rommel, starting with single missions containing Japanese troops as well as 50 new units. 
 Also, the add-on contains 8 single missions, with an entire new nation at war: Japan which is pretty 
 cool. Enemy AI is improved from the previous version, but the soldiers still stay together in large 
 groups than in smaller sections to hide. Enemies do position themselves in buildings to keep out 
 of site, but their overall reaction time is fairly slow. It is also quite easy to find yourself 
 in an inescapable situation without any notice. This gets very annoying and sometimes you just 
 want to stop playing. The only bad thing is the absance of a multiplayer part of the game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are quite good, it mixed both 2-D and 3-D effects though it is mostly 
 done in 2-D. The units arent particularly impressive in detail, however, but such faults come 
 from the limited capabilities of 2D graphics. Likewise, the audio hasnt improved much from its 
 predecessor. Also the destruction is quite good and are quite realistic when things are destoryed 
 or explodes.
  
  Sound: The sound is good. Every thing sounds like the way they should, from the gun fire to the 
 planes that fly over the map.
  
  Value: All in all this is a good game but this game does have it's flaws. Firstly there is alot 
 of micro-managment, so if you don't pay attiontion to one group of things they can be quickly destroyed. 
 Also maps can be like a puzzle just to find your way though it. But this game does have good replay 
 value for the single payer campaine. But it's lacking a multiplayer portion of the game. To bad 
 this game is underrated, it is one of the few good World War 2 RTS games out there.
  So I have this game 8.2 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: looksofat
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 25, 2005 10:52 am PT
Review:  The original Blitzkrieg was a great game. I really liked it. I spent playing it for more than 200 
 hours and sometimes i still play it. So naturally i was delighted when i got the expansion pack. 
 A big plus is that is standalone. That is probably the only plus it gets.
  The graphics are completely the same. The designers didnt even include the Burning Horizon sign 
 to the game. The intro movie is the same, so is the intro german campaign movie and the end of 
 it too. There are some new units which is good, but that was the minimum expected so it really 
 cant be a plus. The environments look the same. There wasnt even the smallest change. Some of the 
 buildings look different and actually they even added a tank trench to the game. But thats about 
 it. Oh, and of course the quite cool and unexpected sand storm effect. Yeah. 
  About the sound: It hasnt changed. I have reasons to suspect that even some of the new units have 
 old sound. The speaking part of the game is good, germans talk a lot. Yet it gets repetitive after 
 a few hours. And thats if you didnt play the original game. For me...
  But at least they could do is to increase the sounds strenght. Its so weak. No one could really 
 think a battle is undergoing.
  Gameplay is basically the same, with some major mistakes. The pathfinding in Blitzkrieg was quite 
 good, but the pathfinding here is unbeleviable. Sometimes your units are so stupid that they get 
 lost on a strip of sand. Really. A few times my tanks went straight through enemys tanks. Why didnt 
 they stay at the original pathfinding. They didnt improve anything. Another thing is that the games 
 name Blitzkrieg (and of course the expansion too) is, most of the time completely em, how to say... 
 Basically you almost never get more units than the enemy. And that is quite stupid. An improvement 
 is that the parachute planes can carry much more people so sometimes you get a battalion of paratroopers 
 to use. But like in Blitzkrieg, most of the time you will just bomb the enemy lines with planes 
 and artillery. The core remains. Except for multiplayer which simply doesnt exist.
  Value is well, its good overall besides the German campaign (of Erwin Rommel) you also get about 
 ten costum missions, which take a half an hour to complete or so... But with some of the mayor 
 problems repeating is simply not necessary because you will be happy to get through in the first 
 time. With no multiplayer i cant give a higher score.
  
  Overall, if you liked Blitzkrieg you probably should get this game, coz it offers some hours of 
 entertainment, and its really cheap too. But if you didnt play Blitzkrieg than, you most likely 
 will hate this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
