-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: BloodRayne 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/bloodrayne2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots and lots of blood and severed limbs.
 Plenty of stylish action.
 Enjoyable audio.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Serious control issues dampen the PC experience.
 Some confusing and buggy gameplay sequences.
 Game looks impressive only when every single graphical setting is cranked up.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 23, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.9, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 1,235 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Terminal Reality
Genre: Fantasy Shooter
Date:     Aug 2, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The notion of the exact same game from last year coming out -- now on the PC, with serious control 
 issues and graphical hangups -- is kind of an offensive one. 

  Stop us if you've heard this one before. A half-human, half-vampire antihero, along with a long-haired, 
 trench-coat-sporting associate, goes to war with a largely underground society of vampires who 
 are looking to come up in the world and turn the human race into their slaves. No, they didn't 
 make another lousy Blade game. It's BloodRayne, that  other  half-human, half-vampire hunter of 
 bloodsuckers everywhere. The original BloodRayne game debuted in 2002. You controlled the heroine, 
 Rayne -- a busty, redheaded alternative to Wesley Snipes' comic book-inspired vampire hunter -- as 
 she hunted down Nazis, vampires, and Nazi vampires in the 1930s. The game featured a fairly straightforward 
 story and style of gameplay that, while not spectacular, proved to be a pretty entertaining experience 
 for fans of comic book-style action games. BloodRayne 2, the suitably named sequel, punches up 
 the stylish action of its predecessor, giving Rayne a whole new slew of enemies to chop up, as 
 well as a whole host of new ways in which to do it. BloodRayne 2 hit the Xbox and PS2 late last 
 year to reasonable acclaim, and now, 10 months later, the game has come to the PC. Why it took 
 this long becomes apparent as you play this halfhearted console port -- the developer was evidently 
 unable to get the controls to work quite right on the PC. Couple this with the fact that none of 
 the problems from the console game have really been fixed here, and what you've got is a pretty 
 unappealing product.  

           Remember Blade? It's like that, but with a chick.     

  When we last left our vivacious, vampiric vixen Rayne, she had just put the squeeze on her evil 
 vampire father, who had been working with the Nazis and doing all manner of evil deeds. At the 
 beginning of this game, which is now set in modern times, Rayne is on the hunt for her siblings 
 in her expansive family. It seems that Rayne's dad had been quite the rolling stone, fathering 
 scads of both pure-blood and half-breed vampires all over the world. However, Rayne soon stumbles 
 upon a reunion of sorts among her father's many children, who are conspiring to produce a "vampire 
 apocalypse" of sorts, by unleashing an insidious new weapon called the shroud. The shroud is a 
 blood-fueled blanket that covers the sky, allowing vampires to walk around in the daylight and 
 essentially do as they please. It's up to you, as Rayne, to quell this vampiric uprising and prevent 
 humanity from becoming vampire cattle.  

  Rayne's gameplay focuses largely on style over substance, though it isn't necessarily shallow. 
 Rayne comes equipped with a pair of arm-mounted blades as well as some rather nasty kicks, and 
 both her slashes and kicks are assigned to specific keys. Simply pressing one or the other in succession 
 creates some basic combo attacks, but by holding down the target button while attacking, Rayne 
 will target a specific enemy and gain a whole new set of dodges and counterattacks, which come 
 in handy against some of the quicker boss enemies. When distance is required, Rayne has a chain 
 she can use to latch onto enemies and send them flying in any desired direction. Rayne also has 
 access to a pair of blood-powered guns called the Carpathian dragons. The dragons require blood 
 to work, and if you run out of ammo, they'll begin draining Rayne's blood supply. Thankfully, there 
 are more than a few enemies scattered throughout the game who are willing to donate to the cause. 

  By enacting Rayne's "feed" attack, so long as an enemy is vulnerable (meaning it isn't holding 
 a large weapon with which to smack her down) , Rayne will pounce on the poor schmo and dive straight 
 for the jugular. This is how Rayne gains health throughout each level, and in the process, she 
 can also reload her blood guns by pressing the fire button while drinking up. Once you're done 
 with your blood donor, you can either toss that enemy aside or kill him or her in spectacular fashion 
 by using one of Rayne's execution moves. By performing one of a few different button combos, Rayne 
 will do anything ranging from simple stabbings to out-and-out slicing and dicing of an enemy, sending 
 limbs, torsos, and heads flying every which way. These moves are gruesome and hysterical, though 
 unfortunately, there aren't a ton of them -- only 12 in all -- so they do get a little repetitive after 
 a while.  

           Wesley Snipes comparisons aside, Rayne has more than enough talent to put a stop to her 
 own vampire apocalypse -- even if this one doesn't feature Stephen Dorff at the forefront of it. 

  Fortunately, this is not the only method of execution the game provides you, because Rayne has 
 several contextual moves she can use to put the pain on the bad guys as well. For example, Rayne 
 can slide down certain pipes and rails, and while she is sliding, you can make her extend her blades 
 outward, thus sticking any enemies that might be standing along her slide path. Another example 
 involves Rayne's chain attack. Several puzzles in the game require you to clog or jam an object -- such 
 as a wood chipper or a garbage truck -- that is blocking your path in order to pass. How do you do 
 this? By sticking a baddie with your chain and flinging him into the aforementioned object, resulting 
 in a bloody mess. There are also all sorts of sharp objects you can fling enemies into outside 
 of kill puzzles. Rayne is a nimble little minx, and she can hop, skip, and jump all over levels 
 with Prince of Persia-like precision. Every single level in the game contains at least a few lengthy 
 jump puzzles, which feature bars she can hang from, pipes she can climb up, and so on. From these 
 bars, Rayne can angle herself in such a way that she can shoot enemies from her perched position, 
 thus making her tough to shoot. Aiming this way is a little tricky at first, but it works well 
 enough once you get used to it.  

  The remainder of Rayne's abilities come in the form of special moves and powers that are tied into 
 a meter below her health meter. These abilities include a special aura vision that lets her see 
 enemies in other rooms as well as secret entrances; a time-shifting ability that lets you slow 
 the action down into bullet time and even lets you speed up Rayne so she's significantly faster 
 than the rest of what's onscreen; and special blood rage and fury abilities, which power up Rayne's 
 attacks quite a bit and make her pretty much impervious to harm for as long as the bar stays powered 
 up. These moves are all useful, but unfortunately they're  too  useful. None of the enemies in 
 the game -- save for some of the bosses -- are tough enough to stand up to Rayne normally, let alone 
 when her special-abilities meter is at full strength. So really, all you need to do is save your 
 blood rage mode until you're up against a particularly strong enemy, and most times you'll be able 
 to slice right through that enemy in no time. You'll need to use specific attacks and patterns 
 to beat some boss enemies, but many of them can be easily defeated with simple button mashing while 
 the blood rage or fury is turned on.     

  In fact, BloodRayne 2 is an easy game overall. No doubt there are sections that will require multiple 
 tries to beat, but this is usually when you aren't immediately aware of how you're supposed to 
 proceed. Most times, the game uses the magic of cutscenes to thoroughly explain how you're supposed 
 to get through a section of a level, but occasionally, it doesn't provide you with the right clues, 
 and the intuitive response isn't always the right one. Aside from these occasional miscues, BloodRayne 
 2 is a very straightforward 10-hour game that doesn't require much exploration or thinking. It's 
 pretty much just "kill all the bad guys, move to another room, solve a quick puzzle, and repeat." 
 Of course, Rayne's myriad of stylish abilities and methods of killing off opponents certainly counterbalances 
 the game's simplicity to a degree, but if you were hoping for a little more in the way of variety, 
 it isn't here.  

           The lackluster controls bring down the gameplay significantly.     

  The only thing 
 that adds any level of difficulty to the PC version of the game is the off-kilter feel of the controls. 
 The game simply doesn't feel right when you're using a mouse and keyboard; targeting becomes too 
 much of a hassle, and it's hard to focus your attacks while trying to balance camera control and 
 hit the various attack buttons. A gamepad is required, though even the gamepad controls are problematic. 
 For starters, the only camera-movement access you're granted is up and down. If you want to move 
 the camera back behind Rayne, you have to snap it back behind her by pressing a button, rather 
 than manually moving it with an analog stick. That's annoying. Similarly, there seems to be a degree 
 of delay between when you hit an attack and when the animation stops, making Rayne tough to get 
 a handle on at times. Considering that some of the acrobatic moves, chain attacks, and such require 
 fairly precise controls, the problems with them in the PC version hinder the game quite a bit. 

  The other serious complaint you can mount against BloodRayne 2 is that it isn't as refined a game 
 as it could be. Bugs are readily apparent on a semifrequent basis, though most are just annoying, 
 rather than detrimental. Most of them fall under the animation category, specifically animations 
 pertaining to enemies falling down or trying to get back up. The game uses a sort of pseudo-rag-doll 
 physics system, so when enemies go down, they tend to go down in a heap. However, if an enemy is 
 going to get back up, many times he or she will just pop up out of nowhere, with no transition 
 animation in between, which looks disconcerting, to say the least. Clipping problems are also pretty 
 regular, and you'll often see enemies and even Rayne herself popping through doors, walls, and 
 what have you. We also hit a couple of random instant-kill glitches, which drained us of all life 
 for no obvious reason.  

  Besides bugs, there are parts of the game that seem a little unpredictable in design. Some of the 
 game's jump puzzles seem haphazardly put together, and the route you have to take to get through 
 them doesn't seem like the best one available. Other times, you can seemingly bypass certain routes 
 altogether by jumping between little cracks and other inconspicuous sections. There are also a 
 couple of boss fights that are just plain weird, in that there is more than one way to beat them, 
 but it's not obvious which method you're supposed to be using -- nor is it obvious from the beginning 
 what you're even supposed to do. These weird bits don't ruin the game, but they do give it a sloppy 
 feeling when they pop up.  

  Apart from the animation and clipping problems, BloodRayne 2 is a good-looking game. Rayne's model, 
 and the models for many of the main characters and monsters, are all creatively designed and nicely 
 detailed. Sure, most of the character designs are derivative of typical comic book antiheroes and 
 villains, but that doesn't keep them from looking cool overall. Though the game doesn't feature 
 a ton of differing levels, the ones that it does provide are nicely put together, and they capture 
 the sort of urban and gothic atmosphere the game tries to produce. Plus, every environment is littered 
 with destructible objects and items, which add to the chaos of the action. The game's cutscenes 
 are somewhat erratic, however. There are a couple of beautifully rendered CG scenes, but the rest, 
 which are done in-engine, don't look even half as good. When the resolution and all graphical touches 
 are turned the entire way up, BloodRayne 2 can look impressive. But if you go even a step or two 
 down from that, aliasing and muddy textures start popping up -- not to mention that a couple of resolutions 
 that would look fine on a normal monitor seemed to squish everything onscreen, as if it were set 
 to widescreen.  

           Rayne has a variety of ways to kill off her opponents -- most of which involve severed body 
 parts of some kind.     

  Like all comic book heroes and heroines, Rayne is chatty and loves to drop some witty one-liners 
 on her eventual victims. Thankfully, the actress who voices her manages to do a serviceable job 
 with the occasionally dumb but mostly entertaining quips that have been written for her. The remaining 
 voice acting is similarly good, though not spectacular, and there are only a couple of characters 
 that come off as a little silly. In-game, the various sounds of Rayne's battles with the vampiric 
 hordes are very good, with plenty of blades scraping across each other and horribly squishy sounds 
 of gushing blood. There's a lot of background ambience to appreciate too, such as the echoed shrieks 
 of agony you'll hear from human victims as Rayne explores the factory that makes the shroud. The 
 soundtrack is also very good, though a little repetitious at times. There are only a handful of 
 tracks, but what's there is reminiscent of the sort of thing you'd hear in one of the  Blade  movies, 
 featuring heavy electronic drums and distorted guitars.  

  BloodRayne 2 was perfectly fine on consoles, despite the game's problems, but a significant amount 
 of time has passed, and the notion of the exact same game from last year coming out -- now on the 
 PC, with serious control issues and graphical hangups -- is kind of an offensive one. You can get 
 either of the console versions of BloodRayne 2 right now for around $25, slightly less than what 
 you'd pay for the PC version at full price. We think it's obvious what the better choice is, in 
 this case.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: angelkadaj
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  BloodRayne 2 is a great game, and it surely worth playing. The main character is Rayne. She's a 
 good looking red haired woman, and she looks fantastic in her clothes. The game has nice (huge) 
 environment, not-so-bad graphics, and what's most important to me  interesting gameplay.
  The fighting puzzles in the game are sometimes annoying (like tossing enemies in a fireplace etc.) , 
 and it's pretty hard to figure what to do next without aura vision. Enemies aren't so easy, and 
 fighting them and walking near water may piss you off. Yeah, I wrote walking near water because 
 our main character is vulnerable to water (reason: she's dhampir  half-human, half-vampire) . How 
 does she take a bath? In this game you'll fight many bosses and sub bosses. Some of them are really 
 easy to beat, but some will cause you problems.
  Every game has bugs, and I won't say that this one hasn't. Sometimes the enemies run in one place 
 (are not moving, just jumping around) . Just to warn you  this game has terrible camera, but after 
 a while you'll get used to it.
  The game has great story (we're hunting Rayne's evil father) , and in my opinion everyone should 
 try playing this game, not only BR1 fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: owen_2
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 10, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Intro
  Years ago I bought Bloodrayne 1 because, well..., she looked nice.
  I played the game but got frustrated with it after a while and never finished it.
  Recently, 
 I replayed it and to my surprise I liked it. Not that it was a really great game, but it was fun. 
 This new experience was probably partly due to my new rig that allowed me to do the tricks I was 
 not able to do before.
  I decided therefore to see what Bloodrayne 2 had in store. The screenshots and reviews at least 
 suggested better graphics, which was enough for me. Since the reviews in general where not enthusiastic 
 about the port to the pc, I didn't expect to much and maybe this was the best way of looking at 
 it. This way, it could only be better then expected.
  
  Bloodrayne 1 vs Bloodrayne 2
  Bloodrayne 2 has somewhat changed as compared to Bloodrayne 1. It is now set in a modern day city 
 and most adversaries belong to the human/vampire kind. In a certain way 1 was more scaries as at 
 least 2 of the 4 chapters introduced horror like monsters that jumped from hidden positions. And 
 while 2 is more bloody, 1 was a bit more gory. 
  In 2 rayne relies almost entrirely on her blades, harpoon, teeth and pointed heels for disposing 
 of enemies and except for the carpathian dragons she uses no guns.
  One other thing is that in 2 rayne has side-kick that talks to her at certain moments. In 1 rayne 
 is almost completely on her own.
  
  What is fun about this game? 
  - Graphics. Rayne herself looks really great and if you unlock the outfits you can dress her up 
 in different suits. But also her opponents are well rendered and still a treat for the eyes. From 
 the common grunt to the top-bad-guy they all look splendid. It might be that you need a good pc 
 for this, but nowadays the average pc should be able to deliver the needed performance without 
 problem.
  - One-liners: the sarcastic one-liners that are well voiced: (quoting some from memory)
  (rayne: 
 You saw the blades, what'd you expect to happen?)
  (rayne: Yeah, bet that will heal funny.)
  (rayne: So i am faced with endless spawning minions 
 and a spinning rotor-blade)
  (badguy: We're looking for a hot, big breasted, red headed Dhampir, it's not like there's thirty 
 of them around here!) .
  - Moves. You got a lot of fantastic moves to pull of.
  - Puzzles: it is not just hack and slash, the game also gives you some easy but fun puzzles. Not 
 like the quality of Lara Croft, but fun nevertheless.
  - Sounds: the sounds are good.
  
  Actually on this level the game is a fun packed game. Don't think just act and cut yourself a bloody 
 path. 
  
  What is bad about the game: 
  - bug's, bug's, bug's: I can't quit call them bug's as you almost never get stuck, but there are 
 strange things. Example: in the first chapter you have to toss four minions within a short time 
 into four boxes. This requires that those four minions are there to toss. But sometimes they only 
 spawned one or two at a time, so I had to restart, and then they started to spawn at a very rapid 
 rate. This happened also vice versa (up to the point that respawning completely stops) at various 
 points in the game. 
  - Sudden deaths: I had some sudden deaths of rayne or her opponents. Usually this had some connection 
 with fire or the objects in the area. But once a super minion just died halfway the stairs without 
 a visible cause.
  - Sudden interjventions: sometimes when you have done something that requires you to go to the 
 next section of the game, you find yourself suddenly teleported a distance away even if you are 
 still on the same map .This can happen even if you are in the middle of a fight.
  - Unclear targets. Despite close listening to what rayne and severin say and pressing the aura 
 button it happens that you are clueless what to do to proceed. Lucky there are several walkthroughs 
 out there.
  - Ninjas: At the end of the game you sometimes up against Ninja's. They are unbelievable powerful 
 for minions. Even better then most bosses. 
  - Controls: well they work in a fashion but then they don't work as well as you like them to work. 
 Harpoon tossing for instance, of big importance for the puzzles, is somewhat unpredictable. From 
 the reviews I understand controls were much better on the console versions.
  
  Verdict
  All in all: a game that brings you fun but is beset by a lot of annoyances. I had however for most 
 of the time much fun and this made me forgive most problems. 
  
  Post mortem
  It'a pity it is unlikely there will be a sequel very soon. The game ends with an enormous cliff 
 hanger. Will Rayne end the bloodshroud despite the vampire council she faces? And what of the brimstone 
 society? We will probably never know.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaikon7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  I'm not really a big fan of single player games cause i find them often really booring after first 
 15 minutes and through the gameplay cause of the same predictable rutine. but not in this case. 
 This game is fabelous! nice gameplay and fatalitys. Lots of blood with sarcastic sense of humor. 
 Controls are a little hard to get used to at first but if u get used to them you're it becomes 
 rather easy and is not problem at all. small bugs here and there but nothing major.
  
  beside of all that you'll get a deadly, sexy character to play with a cool additude and nice curves
 
  
  What can i say. A decent action packed game to have fun with. people who did this game atleast 
 they put some efford to this game cause this game has some neat style. its clearly obvious after 
 you finish the first 3 levels and you will see it for yourself. I would rate it an 8.0 but i found 
 something I didnt like in this game, the same type of mobs through all the levels wich will get 
 you boored in the end, but its pretty much all with the singleplayer games You finish them once 
 and you wont be playing them again. This is no exeption
  
  7.5! - would be fair rating to this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  BloodRayne 2 is one of the most under-rated games around. The game plays flawlessly on all platforms 
 and is one of the most fun games that I have ever played. I personally have played several times 
 on the PC and Xbox platforms. The heroine of the game is Rayne, a super sexy dhampir ( half human 
 and half vampire) who thwarts her vampire fathers plans of world domination and discovers her own 
 past. Rayne fights as a warrior for the Brimstone Society that serves secretly to protect the world 
 from vampires.
  
  The game has a wide variety of weapons which includes guns, blades, explosives and many more new 
 and interesting weapons and gadgets. The environments are large and detailed. The game play has 
 many fighting puzzles with unique ways of using her vampire skills to hunt down her father's siblings 
 and other supernatural enemies. I found this game to be quite refreshing with excellent replay 
 ability and has me anxious for a BloodRayne 3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: N2TheFlames
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  Don't be shunned by the negative reviews of this game. No, it is not the fanciful graphics-laden 
 treasure by today's standards, but, it is definitely worth your time. Based on the movie, you play 
 as Bloodrayne, a "hybrid" vampire with an amazing array of weapons and devastating combos. She 
 takes blood from her enemies to regain health, and she does it in a few fun and interesting ways.
 
  
  Hardcore "shooter" gamers will blast this game mostly because the graphics, though nice, are not 
 "awesome" by today's standards. But, also probably because the difficulty level of the game is 
 also pretty low by today's standards. Well, for some of us, an easier game here and there is a 
 jewel in the crop. 
  
  A built-in cheat menu adds to the fun with some fun changes you can make to the game like her clothes, 
 one-button combos, god mode, extra gore (more blood) and many others.
  
  The story-line is interesting and entertaining albeit somewhat cliched. She is on a revenge run, 
 killing members of the group that made her what she is (basically) . Her lines range from funny 
 to smug. The voice acting is pretty good and believable for most characters, especially Bloodrayne. 
 Some of the comments she makes about her enemies before she kills them is hilarious.
  
  Regardless of what you've read about Bloodrayne 2, it is a fun and very entertaining game that 
 will make you laugh from time to time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotch69
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is a tale of two perspectives. The graphics and story are good, but the gameplay was 
 nearly impossible at times to master. It was much more difficult than the first game and the camera 
 control was very poor at tmes. Maybe I am getting old, but I needed "help" is several parts of 
 the game just to get past it. Games cease to be fun if you have to constantly cheat to make it 
 through a game. The story was interesting as was the ways you had to pass levels. Overall the game 
 was hard, nice to look at and I glad it is over. Hopefully if they make another game they will 
 make the graphics and story as interesting, but ease up on the difficulty a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humanpaul
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  this game is much much better than the previous one
  Rayne becomes prettier (lol) and the quality becomes higher
  and most importantly, it is still 
 violent and fun
  enemies will scream my arm! my arm! or other hilarious speech if you attack them
  enemies' AI 
 are also higher, sometimes they will push you away if you suck their bood
  there are many cool combinations of assault actions you can use ( so many that I don't even remember 
 them :) )
  but one thing must be mentioned: it is not easy
  you'll like it if you like to play action games and are not afraid of blood and difficulties 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vortex30
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Amazing action from the get go, non stop acrobatic amusement, combined with the ability to toss 
 enemies on to spikes.
  Amazing action from the get go, non stop acrobatic amusement, combined with the ability to toss 
 enemies on to spikes.
  Amazing action from the get go, non stop acrobatic amusement, combined with the ability to toss 
 enemies on to spikes.
  Amazing action from the get go, non stop acrobatic amusement, combined with the ability to toss 
 enemies on to spikes.
  Amazing action from the get go, non stop acrobatic amusement, combined with the ability to toss 
 enemies on to spikes.
  Amazing action from the get go, non stop acrobatic amusement, combined with the ability to toss 
 enemies on to spikes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  Everybody has a game they consider a guilty pleasure, and the original BloodRayne was mine when 
 it came out two years ago this month. It had a hot chick slicing and dicing Nazis with huge blades 
 attached to her arms, a host of weaponry, and a great B-movie horror style about it. Unfortunately, 
 monotonous combat eventually ground down the fun factor and kept it from true greatness, though 
 it sold well. The sequel has gone far to improve the variety of the combat model, but BloodRayne 
 2 can't quite escape some trappings of the original.
  
  This one starts out with the title character in the midst of wreaking vengeance upon the entire 
 family tree of the enemy who killed her family. We've also jumped ahead seventy years, but Bloodrayne, 
 being a dhampir, half-vampire and half-human, doesn't seem to have aged a day. In the intervening 
 years however, the powerful family she's pledged to destroy has made plans of their own, and it 
 takes a page right out of the Blade playbook -- vampires will take over the world and kill all humans 
 by blocking out the sun, and it's up to her to put a stop to it.
  
  As before, there are no health packs or magic balls littered through the map. Rayne gets her health 
 back by feeding on the enemy, and she can refill her Rage points (or mana, in other words) by executing 
 a brutal attack once she's initiated the feeding. There are four different fatalities, two each 
 depending on if she hits the enemy from the back or the front. Unlike the first installment, though, 
 she won't be picking up weapons and ammunition. Instead, she gets a pair of modular guns that she 
 refills by starting to feed, then hitting the trigger button. The more damage the enemy has taken, 
 the less of a refill she'll get, and that goes for health and Rage. As the game progresses, these 
 guns will get upgrades so they can also perform as a fully automatic submachine gun, shotgun, or 
 even a grenade launcher. It's a clever and innovative system, and a refreshing break from the games 
 that ask you to run around and bust crates open. On the other hand, that means there's little reward 
 to exploring the nooks and crannies, and the maps are very linear anyway.
  
  Rayne's famous blades have changed as well. Instead of being hinged and allowing the player to 
 swing them around for a dismemberment attack, they're fixed and noticeably shorter. They're still 
 quite cool, and you'll gradually unlock a move list that can, in theory, make for some pretty flashy 
 combat.
  
  Camera control is an acquired taste, with one stick dedicated to manual, 360-degree control while 
 the other one moves Rayne around. Giving the player so much freedom can actually be a bit frustrating, 
 since the camera won't auto-adjust when you get stuck in a tight spot (although you can click a 
 button to reset it) . I personally prefer the hybrid -- a game-controlled camera that you can nudge 
 around a little bit. Let me just fight, and have the game help me see what's going on.
  
  Sound fares better, with a variety of weapon sounds, impacts, explosions, and effective ambient 
 music, although you might not like the heavy metal that cuts in for the big fights. Music can muted 
 independently, though, so it's an aspect that can be completely ignored.
  
  In fact, BloodRayne 2 has pretty extensive customization. You can adjust dialogue volume separately, 
 change to airplane controls for both camera and character movement, tweak camera speed, remap the 
 buttons, and toggle auto-lock and dialogue text.
  
  IGN. com|AskMen. com|Rotten  Gamers|GameStats|Direct2Drive
 
  IGN. com | PC Games | PS2 | PS3 | PSP | Xbox | Xbox 360 | GameCube | Wii | DS | GBA | Wireless 
 | Cheats | Insider | Movies | TV | DVD | Music | Comics | Gear | Sports | Cars | Babes
  Search: The Web IGN. com IGN PS2 Search Log In | Register
  My Account | My Alerts
  My Blog | 
 My Wishlist | My Collection
  New Reviews Every Day
  New games, movies in theaters and on disc, music, TV shows, comics, and more:
  
  Entourage 
 S4
  
  3:10 to Yuma
  
  NHL 08
  
  Drawn to Life
  
  Medieval II TWK
  
  Simpsons 10 DVD
  SECTIONS
  &middot; Game Profiles
  &middot; Reviews
  &middot; Reader Reviews
 
  &middot; Previews
  &middot; Videos
  &middot; Images
  &middot; Features
  &middot; News
  &middot; Podcasts
  &middot; Mailbag
  &middot; Editors' Choice
  &middot; 
 Release Dates
  &middot; Hardware
  &middot; Guides
  &middot; Cheats
  &middot; FAQs
  &middot; Message Boards
  &middot; Compare Prices
  CHANNELS
  Insider Members
  &middot; Insider 
 Channel
  &middot; Hi-Res Movies
  &middot; Join Insider
  &middot; Founders' Club
  Games
  &middot; PC Games
  &middot; PlayStation 2
  &middot; PlayStation 3
  &middot; Sony 
 PSP
  &middot; Xbox
  &middot; Xbox 360
  &middot; GameCube
  &middot; Nintendo Wii
  &middot; Nintendo DS
  &middot; Game Boy
  &middot; Wireless
  &middot; N-Gage
  &middot; PlayStation
 
  &middot; N64
  &middot; Dreamcast
  &middot; PC Downloads
  &middot; Top Games
  &middot; VE3D
  &middot; Vault Network
  Entertainment
  &middot; Movies
  &middot; TV
  &middot; 
 DVD
  &middot; Music
  &middot; Comics
  &middot; Gear
  &middot; Sports
  &middot; Cars
  &middot; Babes
  Cheats &amp; Codes
  &middot; PC Cheats
  &middot; PS2 Cheats
 
  &middot; PS3 Cheats
  &middot; Xbox 360 Cheats
  &middot; Wii Cheats
  &middot; DS Cheats
  &middot; Top Cheats
  &middot; FAQs
  &middot; Game Guides
  Club. IGN
 
  &middot; Message Boards
  &middot; Blogs
  &middot; Lists
  &middot; My Account
  GET GAMES
  Direct2Drive
  Compare Prices
  &middot; PC Games
  &middot; PS3 Games
  &middot; 
 Xbox 360 Games
  &middot; Wii Games
  &middot; DS Games
  IGN &raquo; Games &raquo; PlayStation 2 &raquo; Reviews
  BloodRayne 2 (PS2)
  Blogs Boards Guide 
 FAQs Cheats Reviews Previews News Features
  BloodRayne 2
  by Tom McNamara
  &amp;#9668; Previous 1 2 3 Next &amp;#9658;
  
  Sadly, the game is still generally s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  ... heck?! Why's that I keep dying? Man, this game's annoyingly hard with brutally fast A. I. and 
 moreover, the infrequent checkpoints and faulty camera movements made it almost impossible to enjoy.
 
  
  To play Bloodrayne 2, especially if you aren't a seasoned action gamer, you'll need to be very 
 patient to master your moves and beat tons of opponents before reaching the next savepoint. Trust 
 me, this is a very frustrating process in this game particularly when the camera unexpectantly 
 faces away from the action at times when you're near wall surfaces, then you're as good as blind. 
 Also, the keyboard configuration ain't helping either.
  
  But if you can manage to outwin the A. I. easily, then Bloodrayne 2 is an eye-pleasing experience 
 via a very well-animated Rayne with suave combat moves and a bad-girl attitude. The lighting system 
 compliments her curves and outfit with dynamic reflections and rim light settings. Good thing is, 
 after you complete the game with any difficulty setting, you'll get to unlock all alternative Rayne 
 outfits for replay value. Overall, the graphics are great and should be enough to appease your 
 frustrations over struggling with the controls.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wendyxo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  this game is just great better then the first one a fun way to go and kill some people. from start 
 to finish this game is pack with all kinds of twist and thing s u never would of thought of the 
 ending. is just great. i just love all of the cut sceens. you should play the first game first 
 to know what going on in this one. they ae two different game the game play is easy to learn but 
 it is something you have to get use to. dont go by the movie for tis game the game is far better 
 andthe story is a lot better and more complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grihn
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  Bloodrayne 2 basically continues where Bloodrayne left off. Rayne is on a quest to eliminate everyone 
 in the bloodline of her father. Bloodrayne 2 is packed with action. There is scarce a moment where 
 there aren't enemies to fight or a puzzle to figure out. As you progress through the game, you 
 earn new powers and special moves, as well as unlock new firing modes for your guns.
  
  The game plays very smooth on PC, and still looks great, even today. I don't imagine you'd want 
 to play on a keyboard and mouse, as there it may be difficult to pull off most special moves. I 
 use a Logitech Dual-Shock controller. I have a 360 controller for my PC, but the 2 trigger buttons 
 weren't recongized by the game. The only real criticism I have of the game is the voice acting. 
 Not that it's bad, but playing 10 hours of game with Rayne continually repeating the same lame 
 cracks over and over quickly gets tiring. I know they can't pack it full of 1000's of different 
 things for her to say, but I would have prefered her to just stop talking. Still, this hardly takes 
 away from the gameplay in any way. Boss battles are pretty neat. Most have a specific way to beat 
 the boss, and are not all the easiest. A few of them also aren't the most obvious, and may take 
 some time for the player to figure out what to do.
  
  If you like a game full of action and a few tricky puzzles, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roguetrp
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 29, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  i tell you.... this rocks ... realy good.... some nice slashing and cool bosses... plenty of blood.... and 
 she looks nice too...
  You are gonna reload a few times with the bosses but hey.... you will love to make them pay at the 
 end..
  its got a good story to it but it needed some more high res. videos instead of just the 2.
  If 
 you liked Devil May Cry 3 then this will be just as much fun... Some great fatalitys and some nice 
 guns ..... blood sucking guns..
  the gemeplay is a little difficult at first.... camera angles and so on but you get use to it ... the 
 sound is great ... grafics are fine and it realy makes for some fun killing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satorn
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 22, 2006 1:46 am PT
Review:  A year ago one of my friends gave me the cd of blood rayne 1 , so I installed the game in the same 
 day and that moment I discovered this great game with all it's cool graphics, sound effects &amp; 
 realistic scenes .
  the game is about the world war 2 as u know , so when I discovered that it made me so happy to 
 play it and try it ! cause all the games about the ww2 are good ( games like :medal of honor, call 
 of duty .. etc) .
  also the green light to set the cheats is good too , cause sometimes we need them .
  now , do 
 you know that I finished the game in one day ? the same day I installed it ! yes but the game is 
 a little short right?
  Try it today cause this game really worth it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grimmshock
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  I never played the first game but I like this one. You can interact with most everything in your 
 environment. The graphics are superb and immersive.
  The feature I enjoyed the most is the ability to use EAX sound. EAX really complements my 5.1 system 
 I have hooked up to my PC. Having that function brings you even deeper into the game. Game play 
 itself took a little to get used to but after a while I got used to it. Mouse camera movement is 
 a bit touchy but a little practice is part of every game. I can't find anything overly bad about 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rynn21
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 11, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  When we last left Rayne she had terminated her evil vampire father, and now she has stumbled upon 
 a reunion between her father's half and full blooded children. Before Rayne knows it she is undercover 
 to put a end to their reign of terror once and for all. By accident Rayne finds out that her father's 
 many children, who are conspiring to produce a "vampire apocalypse" are trying to create a Shroud. 
 Now Rayne must fight off her kin and stop their plans before the whole world is pulled into chaos. 
 
  
  The gameplay is a little hard to control, but you will soon get the hang of it. Once again the 
 blood amount is way too much. There is a thin line apparently between believable consistency and 
 unreal consistency.
  
  Over all though, you shouldn't miss out on this great sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echsenschnitter
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jun 10, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  Bloodrayne 1 is one of my favourite Hack'n Slay games for the PC. That's why i was very excited 
 when i finally got the 2nd one. I began to play and i recognized that it 'felt' different from 
 the 1st one. It was no fun for me to hack and slay my enemies. It just felt boring. Even the first 
 few levels were boring as hell. After a little more than half an hour, the levels begun to get 
 more interesting, but the gameplay was still the same. And it became even worse. One thing that 
 i hate in games are enemies that respawn. No matter how many you kill, they come again and again 
 and again, until you finally reached a certain goal. But the most frustrating element in that game 
 were those acrobatic bar moves. I had no problems with them in the first Bloodrayne game, but the 
 steering in Bloodrayne 2 while jumping from bar to bar has driven me crazy. And it becomes 10 times 
 more annoying if a**holes firing bullets in your direction while you are on those bars. In the 
 end i was so pissed, that i un-installed the game after a few levels. And i doubt that i'll install 
 it again. Bloodrayne 2 is a huge disappointment for me. The gameplay is one of the worst i've ever 
 experienced. I'll stick to the first one. Period 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duncan
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 20, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  You will notice that the other reviews tend to go from "fantastic" to "abysmal". I know that the 
 type of game the reviewer prefers colors his/her review. So this is a game for people who like 
 original action games and are not afraid of the red stuff that sprays when somebody gets hurt. 
 In other words: in spite of being a fantasy game, it is more realistic than most of the politically 
 correct games that get better reviews.
  
  For completeness, the mini summary: The game is about a cool half-vampire called Bloodrayne who 
 saves the world (surprise!) . She needs to figure out what is going on and goes through a lot of 
 very bad "things" to do it. It is basically an adult third-person shooter, similar in style to 
 Tomb Raider crossed with Doom (the original hell ones) .
  
  The main theme of the game of course is slaying... literally with long knives and lots of blood. 
 Which is something I truly abhor, but the two Bloodrayne games are really, really, really suburb 
 at letting you play the role of the half-vampire going-on-a-killing-spree for a few hours and having 
 the time of your life. The story is good with some black humor and there are twists which keep 
 you interested as it progresses. I note a lot of games with really crappy stories and much less 
 game-quality and variety got much better scores... that should tell you a lot.
  
  What I liked most about this game is that it is one of the few games around that is not just the 
 boring point-and-shoot fare that most companies feed us with. You get in there and and use your 
 (acquired) skills, like blood-lust, to get the bad guys. You have a number of weapon options, not 
 just 50 guns and a chainsaw. The moves are really nice and add a lot of fun to the game play. You 
 will find yourself trying out the moves in quite areas just to enjoy the show! A few puzzles to 
 keep your higher brain functions running are in there as well. The methods you need to use during 
 the game, make the whole game experience much more interesting than just running around shooting 
 everything you see.
  
  What is bad is that this game requires you to learn a few key combos to get the best out of Bloodrayne's 
 moves. For people used to console keypads or who have played this type of game before, this should 
 not be too challenging though. For me it was a bit difficult because I do not usually like these 
 sort of games. The game can be enjoyed without having to know too many of them though, a few of 
 the more powerful moves let you get by quite well and enjoy the show.
  
  The graphics are very good but don't slow to a crawl on an older machine Many of the levels and 
 the characters have obviously had a lot of work put into them to make them look good. The heroine 
 is a real looker, which is good no matter what the sex (yours or the game character) , because it 
 is just more pleasant to look at.
  
  All in all definitely rates a 9. x if you like third persons shooter games with a twist. Higher 
 if you a) are male b) can handle key combos c) like original games. Less if you like a) straightforward 
 point-and-shoot b) multi player only c) strategy over everything d) overly conservative.
  
  If you don't mind slightly dated 3D graphics, I would also suggest playing the old original Bloodrayne. 
 It is the original and really started some of the more popular complex acrobatic style games, such 
 as the more recent Prince of Persia series.
  
  -- 
  Cheers,
  Duncan
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 7, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Rayne returns to the media that made her famous (no, Playboy made her infamous) for another action 
 fest. In Bloodrayne 2, we are brought into the present day instead of killing Nazis. To some this 
 will be a downer as it is always fun to kill Nazis, but this time through, we are here to eradicate 
 Raynes family tree. The head of her family, Kagen, is responsible for turning her mother and then 
 killing her. So Rayne has a bit of a grudge that has been festering in her for many years.
  
  The first thing that should be noted with Bloodrayne 2 is that the story is far better than 
 the first in my opinion. You feel more attachment to the people you are killing, because they are 
 related to you in one way or another. You start to learn why Rayne tends to hate vampires in general 
 and has no sympathy in their death. I really started to dig on the chase to get to Kagen as you 
 feels Raynes hatred towards her father. It is a good chunk of writing.
  
  Controlling Rayne is very simple as you use the WASD to move while aiming with the mouse. On the 
 PC, control was good, but it seems like the game was definitely more suited towards a gamepad. 
 But it is not as bad as some game ports, because the controls are functional. I did have some problems 
 with the control on the poles and beams, because if I was not viewing the scene from a certain 
 angle, I would jump the wrong way. 
  
  The Infinity Engine really shines when you have a great graphics card. With details maxed out running 
 on dual 7800GT cards, the game look phenomenal. Main character model details are really good and 
 really make them look realistic. Rayne, Kagen and the other players in the game look like a lot 
 of time was spent on modeling them. The generic minions that attack you on the other hand come 
 from a set amount of costumes and hair styles. Other than that, there are a total of six meshes 
 that attack you with different skins. It is a bit disappointing when you see the detail that was 
 spent on the dozen main characters. Backgrounds are varied and take you to a host of locations. 
 I really got sucked in by all the details that were put into the background. Again, how could they 
 have such great backgrounds and level design, but generic bad guys beyond the bosses? It just does 
 not make any sense.
  
  You will also notice that sound is good, but not great. The voiceovers for the main characters 
 are nice with the exception of Ferrill. She just screeches and becomes annoying about five seconds 
 into seeing her on screen. Rayne sounds good and I believe it is the same lady from the first game 
 that voices her character. It is nice to see them get consistent with the voices. Guns sound good, 
 but they dont have the punch that the guns did in the first game. And while there is some music 
 during destruction scenes, it was a bit bland in the music department.
  
  A problem that I had with the game is that you will cruise through most of it until you get to 
 a certain level and then the game just gets insanely difficult. I mean cursing like a sailor difficult. 
 I am good with a game being skillfully difficult. But this was difficult in an I am going to toss 
 you to impossible odds of survival difficult. I will not spoil it for you the reader, but when 
 you get to this level, you will remember these words in the back of your head.
  
  The destruction sequences were interesting as you had to destroy equipment on a level by throwing 
 bad guys at it. These sequences were a bit repetitive if you had to do them over and over, but 
 they normally are a treat to play as they are creative. An example of this is that there is a pipe 
 that has toxic chemicals in it and you need to make it explode. No problem, just throw some bad 
 guys into the mixer that is linked to the pipe and the remains will eventually make it blow. Absolute 
 genius, but if you cant figure it out right away, it becomes repetitive and boring.
  
  And as a warning, this game deserves its M rating. The eviscerating that happens in this game is 
 downright bloody. I mean buckets of blood. The Red Cross blood shortage would be solved if they 
 could capture all the blood that is spilled in this game. Carnage goes on and with lots of limb 
 removal, decapitations and the occasional spearing from debris; you will not want the kiddies to 
 see this. And the sexual innuendo is back in full effect, but they did tone down the moaning during 
 feeding.
  
  When you complete the game, a host of unlockables appear. Extra costumes, production art and instant 
 level jumping are allowed. The costumes are nice, but definitely appeal to the more repressed juveniles 
 that can get a hold of the game. I mean when a schoolgirl costume is available that allows you 
 to see up the skirt, you know that is not for the serious player of this game. But then again, 
 we are used to the sexual innuendo that are in the Bloodrayne series, so maybe this is to be expected.
 
  
  Overall, Bloodrayne 2 is a satisfying gaming experience. Yes, it is repetitive on some occasions, 
 but it gives you a satisfying story that really fills in a lot of pieces on how Rayne came to be 
 while giving you a lot of ways to inflict pain along the way. I would say that at its $20 price 
 tag right now, it is a great value buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_dreaming_1
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 29, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I finally got a hold of this game after waiting forever for it. I am one of those people that still 
 doesn't have a gaming console. Silly me, I spent over $$ on a computer that's supposed to do everything, 
 including games so I'm going to use it until the day that it dies! But I digress, this is about 
 Bloodrayne 2.
  
  The character of Bloodrayne looks fantastic, I loved everything about her. They hit the mark dead 
 on with it. Her new abilities, also a plus, so what's wrong? On the pc it's almost impossible to 
 execute any of the cool combo moves unless you have more than ten fingers! What where they thinking? 
 Why isn't there one button that I could assign a combo move to? Why do I have to smash my face 
 on the keyboard to get Rayne to do anything remotely cooler than just slashing and kicking?!
  
  This is about the only gripe I have with this game. I'm sure if I played it on a console machine, 
 I wouldn't have cared, but then again those controllers they use have so many buttons, I probably 
 would have complained!
  
  In short, if you're young and have a console machine, you'll love this game, if you're old and 
 have a pc, you'll hate the controls! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0s2004
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 15, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  BR2 for the PC is released after 10 months since the console & the game has lost a lot of appeal 
 but can it's still fun if you have no other action game for the PC.
  
  Graphically it's quite good & a little better than the console versions. Sound is good enough with 
 nice music & sound effects. Controls can take time in getting used to. The game is just about lengthy 
 enough to keep you occupied for about 10-12 hours. It also has a few bugs which can be avoided but 
 they shouldn't have been since the developers took so long to ship this game.
  
  The game is also different from the first one in many ways. The combat has been made very different 
 but it doesn't work out so well because there are many games that have done it better.
  
  All in all this isn't the best or one of the best game you'll play this year but can be fun if 
 you like violence & Vampires. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 3, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  this is a snappy little game with a lot of fun dialog and movement. Rayne your main vamp is quite 
 the beauty and swift on her feet and mouth. Always has something cute to saw even in the hardest 
 cituations. Some said it was slow but if you consider Running, Jumping, Swinging off polls rafters 
 and having to eat on the run slow then you are doing something wrong.. At times i didnt know weather 
 to fill my guns or fill my belly. That was while i was getting my butt kicked. I did rely on walkthroughs 
 for a lot. mainly cause there were tricks that i need to learn when stuck. like playing basketball 
 with bodies in order to break circuts open doors. loved it. hope there is a blood rayne 3. from 
 the end of 2 it looks like there should be a 3 opened up for a nice sequal... please on pc not 
 ps2 or xbox. i loose more sequals to them and it isnt really fair.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bornej
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 8, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  This game has all the elements of being a fun and rewarding experience. The graphics and sound 
 are good. The lighting is spooky and environments are well thought out and interesting. The creatures 
 you fight are either challenging or come in swarms. There is a host of moves and a new weapon as 
 you progress through the game. The only problem is that the way Majesco set up the special moves, 
 its clearly aimed at consoles with absolutely no regard for PC configurations. To add salt to an 
 already gaping wound is that you cant use a console game pad on it anyway as its not setup to recognize 
 it. There are also some moves with very odd default key mappings that are unchangeable. This is 
 an unforgivable mistake and completely ruins what could have been a fine game for the PC.
  
  The bottom line: This game proves how incredibly important game mechanics are over all else. 
 If you don't get this one thing right and yet hit everything else on the head, you'll still end 
 up with a very mediocre game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 31, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Now this was a tricky one. I was very aprehensive about this one. But it was worth the risk.
  
  The story is simple (looks like a crossover of Blade and Kill Bill) , but the game proves a 
 very entertaining experience.
  
  The main character, a sexy martial artist half-vampire, basically goes against thousands of pour 
 souls (but evil ones) and some interesting boss characters, chops them up preety well (sometimes 
 the amount of blood on the floor is laughable) and this goes on, and on...
  
  This looks like a bad review, but it's not, the game is an exccelent enternainment without commitement, 
 the action is fun, complex and gory to the max, graphics are interesting, and it has some excelent 
 cinematics.
  
  There are some shortcomings of course, the camera angles can be very inapropriate at times, there 
 are some graphic bugs, and in some scenes the sound sounds unfinished, but it surely doesn't spoil 
 the fun, because this is the core of this game: fun, not a life changing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Addzi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Bloodrayne 2 was obviously made for the console market. It's keyboard/mouse controls are unfriendly 
 and don't allow you to really take advantage of some really satisfying moves Rayne has at her disposal. 
 If you want the most out of this game get a decent analogue pad.
  
  There. That's the negative point out of the way.
  
  I don't go into stories on my reviews, 
 so we'll jump straight into the gameplay.
  
  Bloodrayne 2 is an hack/slash/shoot/suck blood kind of game. Very arcade-like and quickly accessible.
 
  
  Her moves are satisfying and are very well animated. She can perform melee moves with the blades 
 on her arms primarily, but has extra support with some flashy kicks. These work well against the 
 various enemies in the game as their limbs fly around the room in thick gushes of blood. You'll 
 be performing fatalities and spearing enemies on the scenery in no time.
  
  The scenery is mostly destructible too, enabling you to kick enemies through bookshelves, cinema 
 screens and off buildings. To aid the use of these environmental attacks, you also have a grappling 
 hook made specifically for use on humans. Very helpful.
  
  Fighting enemies is a joy in itself, particularly when using Rayne's dhampir (half vampire) powers. 
 She can slow down time, change her vision to see enemies and prey far easier and can power up her 
 attacks with a rage mode.
  
  The downside to the combat is boss fights. It tends to turn into a "run as close as you can and 
 hack away for dear life" without much other thought involved.
  
  The story is also very good and is the type you'd expect in a action movie based on vampires. Rayne 
 is a real **** and is good with the one liners.
  
  Overall, this is a decent game, with a few little problems, but certainly not half as bad as the 
 other reviewers would have you believe. Download the demo first though, as the controls could well 
 determine whether this game is a hit or miss with you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  I'd call this a more sexploitation version of Tomb Raider. Rayne is not as bumptious as Lara, but 
 is definitely more sexy (in a very cliche, sexist way, you know, super tight black leather, ridiculous 
 heels, etc.. that look super great on her just like they never could on a real woman) And she is 
 armed to the teeth, which are also pretty wicked. She is a vampire on a mission to kill all other 
 vampires, who unfortuately are not near as good looking as her, but some come close. 
  
  After a bit of frustration with some of the control issues I became pretty adept at working around 
 them and enjoying the game. I was actually quite surprised; since the old days of FPS games, I 
 haven't enjoyed a game in such a fast-paced way. The interface actually has a little learning to 
 it, and I didn't pick it up immediately. But when I did, I found the game to be pretty addictive 
 and fun, just as FPS games haven't been for me lately. 
  
  Rayne's good looks also helped keep the game addictive, as she is the hottest and best crafted 
 avatar I have seen in any 3d game. Completely unreal how good-looking she is. Apparently Majesto 
 games modeled their characters on real motion, and the results are rather impressive, (and by the 
 way, won't make you go out and buy a new vid card. A 128 meg card should have no trouble. ) and 
 much to their credit imho they didn't shy away from the issue of depicting the female body in a 
 realistic fashion. Nearly all 3d games portray the soft parts of the female body as being made 
 of wood, for fear of arousing, well, arousing reprisal from the pro-censorship community, I think. 
 Rayne bounces and jiggles where she is supposed to, much to my appreciation. I don't know of any 
 other 3d action game where they do that, otherwise. A few of the models in Unreal Tournament 2000 
 did, but they put a stop to that in Unreal Tournament 2003. And now, the female models in UTK4 
 are absurdly well-endowed, but they might as well be made of concrete. 
  
  And the glorious bounce, as well as the ridiculously bloody gore and the vulgar characters, all 
 come together to make this a game that Number one: you wouldn't want your mother, girlfriend, or 
 most reasonable, mature people to ever see you playing. Number two: It also makes it a game that 
 I put up there with Doom, Quake, and others; that indulge my juvenile, impulsive, rude side, without 
 harm to others in any fashion -- but which I don't mention at family events. The action, dark plot, 
 and attractiveness of the protagonist combine some of the pleasure of playing Doom with that of 
 looking at old Playboy magazines. No wonder the other reviewer here spoke so poorly of it. 
  
  I can hardly believe that there's only one review and in fact such a scathing one here at this 
 site. The game is really not so bad to play, and is lots of fun. The dialogue is hilarous, the 
 music is good, and my gameplay went without a hitch. It is, however, not recommended for minors. 
 Incidentally, there has just been a movie based on the game, and the music group, Evanescence, 
 used the various avatars from this game in a video. So contrary to the reception they have had 
 here at Gamespot, this game is a runaway success. I can't wait for Bloodrayne III. 
  
  I can speak poorly of a few things, I suppose. The hitches in the play action, such as the problem 
 of getting Rayne stuck in a tight spot and not being able to manoevre the camera around her to 
 see what she's supposed to be doing, these are among them. If I had any one biggest complaint, 
 it would be that interface; it's a little tough for me to get used to. I said in my scoring that 
 the "learning curve" is 1 to 2 hours, but that is an oversimplification. The learning curve for 
 me, a "veteran" FPS player is very, very long. In fact, I have not finished learning it yet. But 
 I am in fact still mastering the interface, and I continue to improve, unfortunately after I have 
 played it through. But for me, most games that have any real staying power of enjoyment require 
 some learning or practice. Otherwise they would get boring too fast. Overall, I think the engine 
 rocks, and I wish you could play one on one, just like in Mortal Combat. It might could use some 
 improvement, but it is very nice and smooth, and not terribly demanding of your computer. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryaz_weaponx
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  Story:
  The Story is a sequel to Blood Rayne ,which revolves around rayne a dampire (half human, half vampire) , 
 who is on a killing spree, killin each & every one of Kagans family (a nazi vampire who killed 
 rayne's mother) & other evil badies who gets in her way. Shes helped by Severine a member the brimstone 
 society. This time Havoc unleashes in the city when Rayne's Siblings create the Shroud, a cloud 
 or red blood, which blocks the rays of the sun & that means that vampires & the creatures of darkness 
 can roam the city freely causing destruction.
  
  Your Objective:
  Kill, Kill & Kill.
  
  Engine & Graphics:
  Blood Rayne 2 uses Terminal Realities Infernal Engine, which gives us 
 an enjoyble ride through the game with its real time shodows, detailed enviroments & lifelike physics. The 
 games graphics are absolutely clear in a resulution of 600*400 so you get the picture of what it 
 would be at a higher resolution.
  
  Sound:
  Sound is average, nothing too great about it but voice actings are done well.
  
  Gameplay:
 
  Blood Raynes 2 gameplay saves the day for this game, Raynes unique fighting styles & acrobatics 
 & just amazingly done. You get to play with her trademark blades, a harpoon & the new carpathian 
 dragons which are blood guns of some short, which feature over a variety of gun modes, from a simple 
 pistol to a flame thrower. The guns need no bullets just blood so to fill it, you gotta use your 
 enemies. Blood Rayne 2 has about 12 finishing moves or fatalities. Above all else you get to use 
 a variety of vampiric powers. The enviroment can be used to dispose of the bad guys & you can swing 
 from pole to pole, hang upside down a rod/pole & shoot your enemies or skid through a railing/pipe 
 & kill those baddies. The More said the less.
  
  Pros:
  Amazing Gameplay, Sound, cinematics.
  
  Cons:
  A lot of bugs (& i mean a lot) , dull storyline.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imperion9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Bloodrayne 2 is a good game with plenty of action and ok graphics, the control and story are also 
 good and if you have an analogic gamepad ( highly recommended) you'll enjoy hacking your way through 
 plenty of vampiric enemies and bosses. There are plenty of cut-scenes in between levels and our 
 lady has plenty of combos and special moves (that she acquires as the game progresses) and also 
 fatalities which add a nice touch to the overall package.
  While this may not be the best game you've ever played, one thing is certain if you like console 
 style hack' n slash games, than you'll have fun with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlienXS
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 14, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  A nice pumped-up graphic sequel to the first one, showing an always better looking Rude Redheaded 
 Vamp, I bet they would sell thousands of Her Sexy breathtaking crosstraining outfits if they place 
 it in online-shops even if not so many girls would be able to fit in those ones. The game in itself 
 is a clone of the first with better graphics and locations and a bigger numbers of extra moves 
 and powers. Unfortunately the controlling system it's a major-suckin one, a real no-no obviously 
 meant for consolles and badly adapted for PC. The limb severage in itself is not enough fun when 
 pushed aside in certain moment of the game when the needed skills are overwhelming the silly AI 
 of the NPC that simply won't collaborate.
  I still have to finish to play it but hell.. the disco-ring arena section really bugged me off. 
 And surely the fact of not been able to save whenever I reach a certain point of the level is extremely 
 frustrating... the developers guys probably didnt really care about PC gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Vampire
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 24, 2006 1:56 am PT
Review:  I'm out of disk space after installing this game, but its truly worth it.
  The sound's cool and very good. The graphics quite good and i do love the shiny thing in the game. 
 Maybe the control is not good, but you soon will be OK with it.
  Its really fun game. Every time the game loaded a new area, it provide new challenge. Throwing 
 enemies into fan, spike of fire. And its really challenging game. I'm always use "dilated perception" (slow 
 time down) to take down tougher enemies. Every single abilities prove useful. Really tough too 
 if you don't make any good use of the abilities. Like looking for clue on how to defeat the enemies 
 or find a route.
  Many ways of killing and moves. When i pause the game to look at the moves list, good God, it got 
 lots of moves. 
  When killing enemies by impale or throw them into fire, you got carnage bonus. Its like raising 
 stats.
  The story is quite good. Really cool, especially if someone like Goth people playing it. 
  This 
 game is varied and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blodrayne
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 8:46 am PT
Review:  I LOVE it!!
  Its the Gratest game ever!!
  Tt`s bloody, it`s autrageus, it ROCKS!! Any way Strategy games, simulators
  and racing games are 
 OLD SCHOOL!!!
  BloodRayne2 has any thing, from uncensoured languge to blood baths and acrobatics!!!
  BloodRayne 
 2 is more COOLR than the original BloodRayne, it has more interesting characters and it`s much 
 more bloody than BloodRayne1.
  That`s my opinion on this game, you are free say your opinion on it as vel.
  I expect your critics 
 and your personal opinion about this game on my email adress alex_blodrayne@yahoo. com.
  At first when I herd about it I sayd"another cheasy vampire game!!",
  but I tried it and I loved 
 it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fattymansid
Rating: 2.6
Date: Dec 4, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  i've played many gory, vamp games, some good, some bad, this being the worst. bloodrayne is one 
 of the most depressing, sad game i've played. extremely terrible gameplay, graphics and sound. 
 this game is no challenge, no fun and has nothing good about it. its not scary (even though it's 
 supposed to be horrifying) . you will get bored of this game in an hour, trust me. it is mindless 
 and too easy. gamers will want to kill themselves for buying this game. it has no plot, no enjoyment 
 and is absolutely worthless. so my opinion finally is that you are wasting precious time and money 
 buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobidebil
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2005 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I am a man of few words.
  ... but becase this text requires at least 100 words i must begin with something more.... mmm.... chery. 
 Yes, yes her eyes, her lips, her body ,the way she moves, the way she speak, the way she feeds ... ohh 
 she is mine, only mine but not forever... only until the Sun arrives...
  ... and now the promised...
  This game is something painted in red... in which:
  You will chop 
 arms, legs, heads and much more...
  You will feed upon you enemies...
  You will shoot and blast your foes...
  You will finish the bloody chase and slain all who will 
 dare opose you...
  Because you are Rayne, the hottest half Vampire in the night...
  set to hunt and purge the unclean until the Sun arives...
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dekou
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:07 pm PT
Review:  What do you want from a computer game? If your answer is philosophical dialogues, a complicated 
 storyline and a revolution in gameplay, Bloodrayne 2 isn't the game you want to buy. If it isn't, 
 this may be a perfect game for you.
  
  Visually, Bloodrayne 2 looks near perfect. I haven't played it on low graphical settings, but on 
 every setting set on high, it's fantastic. The only thing I didn't like was the lack of polygons, 
 but then, the game runs very fast even on my system, which isn't especially good at the moment.
 
  
  The controls are a bit clumsy, yes, but when you get used to them, you can do almost whatever you 
 like in battle. Anyway, compared to Prince of Persia, game's combat is pretty complicated, so it's 
 no wonder it is hard to do some things some times.
  
  The thing that really makes this game good is it's style. Really, if you have watched movies like 
 Blade you'll find Bloodrayne 2 most funny. The dialogues are hilarious and the voice acting almost 
 perfect. Of cource, the scenario is about bad sexy female vampires trying to conquer the world. 
 In any other game, this plot would look ridiculous, but here it works well.
  
  Of cource, there are some downsides in this game. A few puzzles are a bit hard to find, there are 
 some clipping issues and all the blood can make you feel sick if you're that kind of person. And 
 there is no multiplayer. But these things don't really spoil the game.
  
  So, what can I say? This one of the rare games (like HL2, Baldur's Gate 2, Silent Storm and Gothics) 
 I have played through at once, without playing anything else at the same time. By the way, don't 
 look at the screenshots. They tend to look worse then the game itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frog_jr
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 15, 2005 10:08 pm PT
Review:  These are a few of the things I look for in a game, so I was not disappointed in the least. If 
 you think of this as a completely 3-d version of streetfighter or mortal combat, but with an extremely 
 sexy fighter, then you might have a good idea of whether it is your kind of game or not. This game 
 is made for the (male) rude teenager in all of us. All others will be disgusted with this absurd 
 show of gratuitous gore, violence, and voluptuous women in tight outfits trying to kill you, which 
 you will have to chop to pieces, unfortunately. Look, if you like Death Metal, Alice Cooper, Motley 
 Crue, or AC/DC, you won't likely have trouble with this game. If you are more the Andrew Lloyd 
 Webber type, I'd say steer clear of this one. 
  
  I'd call this a more sexploitation version of Tomb Raider. Rayne is not as bumptious as Lara, but 
 is definitely more sexy (in a very cliche, sexist way, you know, super tight black leather, ridiculous 
 heels, etc.. that look super great on her just like they never could on a real woman) And she is 
 armed to the teeth, which are also pretty wicked. She is a vampire on a mission to kill all other 
 vampires, who unfortuately are not near as good looking as her, but some come close. 
  
  After a bit of frustration with some of the control issues I became pretty adept at working around 
 them and enjoying the game. I was actually quite surprised; since the old days of FPS games, I 
 haven't enjoyed a game in such a fast-paced way. The interface actually has a little learning to 
 it, and I didn't pick it up immediately. But when I did, I found the game to be pretty addictive 
 and fun, just as FPS games haven't been for me lately. 
  
  Rayne's good looks also helped keep the game addictive, as she is the hottest and best crafted 
 avatar I have seen in any 3d game. Completely unreal how good-looking she is. Apparently Majesto 
 games modeled their characters on real motion, and the results are rather impressive, (and by the 
 way, won't make you go out and buy a new vid card. A 128 meg card should have no trouble. ) and 
 much to their credit imho they didn't shy away from the issue of depicting the female body in a 
 realistic fashion. Nearly all 3d games portray the soft parts of the female body as being made 
 of wood, for fear of arousing, well, arousing reprisal from the pro-censorship community, I think. 
 Rayne bounces and jiggles where she is supposed to, much to my appreciation. I don't know of any 
 other 3d action game where they do that, otherwise. A few of the models in Unreal Tournament 2000 
 did, but they put a stop to that in Unreal Tournament 2003. And now, the female models in UTK4 
 are absurdly well-endowed, but they might as well be made of concrete. 
  
  And the glorious bounce, as well as the ridiculously bloody gore and the vulgar characters, all 
 come together to make this a game that Number one: you wouldn't want your mother, girlfriend, or 
 most reasonable, mature people to ever see you playing. Number two: It also makes it a game that 
 I put up there with Doom, Quake, and others; that indulge my juvenile, impulsive, rude side, without 
 harm to others in any fashion -- but which I don't mention at family events. The action, dark plot, 
 and attractiveness of the protagonist combine some of the pleasure of playing Doom with that of 
 looking at old Playboy magazines. No wonder the other reviewer here spoke so poorly of it. 
  
  I can hardly believe that there's only one review and in fact such a scathing one here at this 
 site. The game is really not so bad to play, and is lots of fun. The dialogue is hilarous, the 
 music is good, and my gameplay went without a hitch. It is, however, not recommended for minors. 
 Incidentally, there has just been a movie based on the game, and the music group, Evanescence, 
 used the various avatars from this game in a video. So contrary to the reception they have had 
 here at Gamespot, this game is a runaway success. I can't wait for Bloodrayne III. 
  
  I can speak poorly of a few things, I suppose. The hitches in the play action, such as the problem 
 of getting Rayne stuck in a tight spot and not being able to manoevre the camera around her to 
 see what she's supposed to be doing, these are among them. If I had any one biggest complaint, 
 it would be that interface; it's a little tough for me to get used to. I said in my scoring that 
 the "learning curve" is 1 to 2 hours, but that is an oversimplification. The learning curve for 
 me, a "veteran" FPS player is very, very long. In fact, I have not finished learning it yet. But 
 I am in fact still mastering the interface, and I continue to improve, unfortunately after I have 
 played it through. But for me, most games that have any real staying power of enjoyment require 
 some learning or practice. Otherwise they would get boring too fast. Overall, I think the engine 
 rocks, and I wish you could play one on one, just like in Mortal Combat. It might could use some 
 improvement, but it is very nice and smooth, and not terribly demanding of your computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thathug
Rating: 3.7
Date: Nov 14, 2005 6:54 am PT
Review:  Ok, i'm going to be serious about this: this game sucks big time! After installing it (and be surprised 
 by the amount of free hard disk space it requires  ) i twisted my fingers and thought this is going 
 to be an actually pretty good game. And man I WAS WRONG! After clicking new game and seeing the 
 "intro movie", I began to wonder if the producers were thinking right when they made this game. 
 The graphics looked as if they were made in 2001 and the dialogues were extremelly stupid and childish. 
 I passed by and began to play and now i wish i didn't. The game has a lack of story, bad voice 
 acting, incompetent dialogues and above all this, it has one of the worst gameplays i've ever encountered 
 in an 3rd person shooter. After playing for about maximum 30 minutes i've uninstalled the game 
 and cursed for about an hour (i've spend more time cursing than playing the game so figure this 
 out) .
  
  And my point is: If you're looking for an action/adventure 3rd person game look forward playing 
 The Prince Of Persia series or Max Payne instead of spending your precious time with this kind 
 of garbage!
  
  Good fight, good night!
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
