-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blood
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/blood/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 26, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.9, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 696 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Developer: Monolith
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's derivative, it's violent, and definitely tasteless at times - but it's almost always fun.

 It's derivative, it's violent, and definitely tasteless at times - but it's almost always fun. If 
 you like first-person shooters (and aren't one of those "Quake rules and everything else sucks" 
 players) you're gonna want to add Blood to your collection.  

 Whatever else you say about Blood, you gotta admit that Monolith didn't try to sugarcoat even minor 
 details like your character's background or motivation. Caleb's his name, and until he met Ophelia 
 Price, he was simply a murderous gunfighter roaming the American West of the 1870s. But he was 
 turned from his gunslinging ways when he met the devil-loving Ophelia Price, whose husband had 
 just been "corrected" for trying to leave the local Cult of Tchernobog, apparently a wanna-be Satan 
 who has pretty much all the powers of his idol. Ophelia coaxed the relatively virtuous Caleb to 
 join her in the cult, and whaddaya know - he liked it!  

 Turns out that demons aren't exactly the most trustworthy entities you can deal with - Tchernobog 
 kills all his followers during a ceremony and spirits away Ophelia, condemning ol' Caleb to a cold, 
 musty grave. But Caleb's not really dead, and when he's somehow resurrected, he's ready to exact 
 a little frontier justice on the master who betrayed him.  

 Once it all starts, you'll see why it's called Blood. Lemme tell ya, there's so much of the red 
 stuff flyin' in this game it makes a Dario Argento film look like Romper Room. Heads are decapitated, 
 skin peels off flesh, and enemies burst into flames and stumble in a daze screaming "IT BURNS!" 
 - if you'd thought you'd seen it all, Blood might be just the jolt you need. It's not enough to 
 actually scare anyone unless they're a kid - we've seen this stuff on a much more realistic level 
 in films - but combined with the Satanic themes, it's definitely a reality check for a lot of PC 
 game fans.  

 Amidst all the bloodletting, a lot of subtle touches will bring a smile to your face as you deal 
 out death on all who stand in your way (including loin-clothed innocents who run around with arms 
 flailing as demons chase them) . Kill a Tchernobog cult member, for instance, and you'll see his 
 feet twitch as he settles into a pool of blood. Blast the head off a zombie, and it might wind 
 up floating in mid-air; if it's lying on the ground, you can boot it around like a soccer ball. 
 There's all sorts of references to horror movies, including a frozen Jack Nicholson from The Shining 
 (the level starts out with Caleb's baritone voice intoning, "Come out, come out, wherever you are!") 
 and a placard at a train depot that reads "Miskatonic Station" (see: H. P. Lovecraft) . There's way 
 too many to mention in the space here, but - if you keep your eyes free of flying goo - you'll 
 find plenty of inside jokes here. And Caleb's a real talky kind of guy, singing snippets of songs 
 like Somewhere in the Night and Putting on the Ritz as you pause to catch 
 your breath, not to mention the expected wisecracks when enemies are killed.  

 But the bottom line is that a ton of blood and clever jokes doesn't make a game fun any more than 
 they make a movie compelling. If Blood relied solely on ultra-violence and nothing else, it would 
 fail just like a bad George Romero or John Woo movie. No, for a first-person shooter to be a winner, 
 it must have a nice arsenal of weapons, a good variety of enemies, well-designed levels, and good 
 graphics. And in almost all those categories, Blood racks up some pretty good marks.  

 Let's start with the graphics. Enemies are generally as well rendered as in Duke Nukem 3-D, but 
 I'd have to say they move a little bit more realistically - assuming the word "realism" has any 
 place in a review about a resurrected devil-worshipper. The color palette is a little on the bland 
 side, but that's more than made up for by outstanding textures and very impressive lighting effects. 

 Then there's the weapons - and this is one of the places where Blood really stands out. This ain't 
 no half-baked armory: you've got a pitchfork (for what that's worth) , flare gun, shotgun, Tommy 
 Gun, napalm launcher, dynamite, aerosol can and lighter (uhh, don't try this at home) , Tesla cannon, 
 and the "Life Leech," which fires a spray of sparky stuff that'll toast all but the most resilient 
 minions of that Satan-wannabe. Many killing tools have alternate fire modes that'll let you use 
 a lot more ammo but get the job done a lot faster, and there are three different ways to use the 
 dynamite (proximity, timer, and fuse length) . And don't forget the Voodoo Doll - this might be 
 the coolest little accessory to ever grace the weapons belt of a first-person killing machine. 

 There's a nice array of evil ones to wipe out with all that firepower, ranging from your run-of-the-mill 
 zombies ("More brains!") to incredibly tough gargoyles and hell hounds to mice and bats and even 
 underwater fiends. And that underwater part brings up the level designs: they're some of the best 
 seen in a 3D shooter. They span all types of geography and history (you'll see what I'm talking 
 about) , they're all about the right length, they link together in logical fashion, and, just as 
 in Duke Nukem 3D, you can poke, shoot, or explode just about everything you see.  

 The biggest problem is that the game is just too damn hard. You've never seen enemies deliver so 
 much damage as quickly as in Blood - even the mice will start draining your life meter at an amazing 
 rate. Put simply: when an average player has to play on wimp mode to avoid being killed every 30 
 seconds, there needs to be some serious adjustment made in the difficulty levels.  

 Last but not least is multiplayer action. Blood played just fine over a local network - but there's 
 a lot more to the online component. On TEN, the gameplay was sluggish and choppy - through no fault 
 of TEN's, since the connection was very good when Blood was tested.  

 But Duke Nukem 3D got better on TEN as time went by, and since Blood's gonna be on about every game 
 network imaginable, there's every reason to believe you can find somewhere it'll play smoothly 
 over the Net. So that leaves one last thing to say: if you like 3D shooters, give Blood a try. 
 You might find that being totally evil - at least in a game - can feel pretty "damn" good.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (22 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  When you first play Blood you may think the game is a Doom rip-off because it sports demonic enemies 
 and hellish levels, but in reality the game is nothing like Doom. Blood features some truly great 
 shooter action and if you're looking for a change from Doom then take a look at Blood.
  
  Doom is a game that cannot be replicated or replaced, but Blood makes an honest effort without 
 stealing from the Doom formula. Blood is a totally committed shooter with an array of very cool 
 weapons like a tommy gun and this skull, that when used it shoots out these balls of energy. Some 
 weapons can even be dual-wielded like the tommy gun. Other weapons available to you are dynamite 
 sticks and this cannister of some sort of spray that is flammable when used near a lighter. The 
 whole weapon selection sets itself apart from Doom and most other shooters of the genre, but they 
 are fun to use and offer something fresh from the standard weapon choices. As I mentioned gameplay 
 is purely a shooter with the occasional 'flip the switch, go through the door' type of thing. Gameplay 
 in Blood is great for the genre, but since it is a pure shooter there's not much more to tell.
 
  
  Graphics in the blood are remarkably sharp and clear, and it is surprisingly violent for an older 
 PC game. And with a name like Blood it's bound to violent and bloody, naturally. The game is very 
 bloody and quite graphic, and it could almost stand up against some modern-day survival horror 
 games in that aspect. The enemies in Blood are rendered very well whether you are fighting the 
 running, fire-engulfed insane cultists or the brown-cloaked druid wielding a tommy gun. Blood's 
 overall atmosphere is very dark, and the game even comes across as occultish and almost Satanic. 
 Some of the levels include an old church, a moving train, a ship, and an old abandoned amusement 
 park. And the one thing all these levels have in common is that they all take place at night. The 
 levels are very dark and it just adds to the already eerie atmosphere. Blood looks good in level 
 design and in presentation.
  
  Sound in the game is what you would expect from a DOS game and even then some with the eerie-sounding 
 music you would expect. It features some voice work aside from the standard grunts or screams of 
 pain. Your character will oftentimes actually utter a line off like "I live" or some other similar 
 quip. The game actually has some really, really good sound work and I was impressed. In Blood sound 
 is top notch not only in quality, but in its age as well.
  
  Ultimately Blood serves its purpose: to function as a totally dedicated and occultish shooter that 
 is both bloody and violent. When one steps back and looks at Doom and Blood it might be said they 
 are relatives, and this is true to a degree. Both games are pure shooters, both have demonic themes, 
 and they both share the overall formula, but somehow they are two completely separate and individual 
 games. Blood discerns itself in the genre by not being a Doom rip-off but by being unique, and 
 being totally worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stanhigareda
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  The 90's was a great time to own a good PC. Real Time Strategy games and Simulators were among 
 the greatest games. But the big boom came with the First Person Shooter genre. Doom started one 
 of the greatest eras of gaming. And among the games that came after, we had BLOOD, brought to us 
 by GT Interactive, programmed by Monolith.
  
  It would be hard for you to know what a FPS is, but it is basically a game that you see in first 
 person and start shooting everyone. A concept this simple would mean that there won't be a lot 
 of difference between games. Well, that is not the case here.
  
  The biggest appeal about BLOOD it was violent and gory for its. It showed interesting things like 
 zombies blowing torn in pieces and burning priests screaming in a very scary way. That was the 
 main reason of the name of the game. During battles and in the environment, blood is in the air.
 
  
  You control Caleb, who is a great anithero. The story tells us that Caleb was something like a 
 dark lone ranger. He was a deadly gunman who earned his life as a mercenary. She met Ophelia who 
 will become the love of his life, and along with two other guys called Ishmail and Gabrielle they 
 joined "The Cabal", a dark group ruled by Tchernobog, a semi-demon who wanted to be more powerful. 
 When this guys summons them to a meeting, he betrays them, killing Gabrielle and Ishmail, abducting 
 Ophelia and buring Caleb alive. Caleb, not dead at all, raises from the grave and vengeance unleashes...
 
  
  The first thing that you notice is that the graphics are not mind blowing, probably because they 
 didn't want to make the gore too realistic or probably because they couldn't do it better. Anyway, 
 they are good enough to show a dark environement. 
  
  While playing, as in any decent FPS, you have a main melee weapon which in this case is a pitchfork 
 and you can get more powerful weapons during your way. These weapons are really meant to harm your 
 enemy the best way possible. You have a flare gun, a sawed off shotgun that is deadly on short 
 rante, a Tommy Gun which blasted a wave of bullets gangster style as your main weapons; but the 
 best part comes with the big guns like the Napalm launcher, The Tesla Cannon, The soul reaper and 
 the voodoo doll. Those weapons are pretty much innovative and destructive. You have dynamite of 
 all kind: Normal, Remote controlled and the funnniest: Radar dynamite. Just put it on the floor 
 and watch the guy blowing away as soon as he gets close to them... Even spray cans are weapons 
 here!!! All of them had a secondary attack which was more damaging but would use more ammo. Each 
 one of the weapons have its own ammo, so you have to manage it pretty well.
  
  YOu don't only have the help of the weapons and ammo. You have upgrades like health and armors. 
 Three kinds of them: Body, Fire and Spirit. Basically, Body is to protect from Bullets and melee 
 attacks, Fire is for fire attacks and Spirit is for magic attacks. You have night googles to see 
 in the dark places (duh!) , and other special stuff like boots for high jumping, a double weapon 
 feature and my personal favorite: The seed. This beauty gives you 100 points of life up to 200. 
 There are many more gadgets around there that you will be discovering.
  
  Your enemies are as dark and evil as you, and they come in waves and in different kinds. There 
 are Axe-welding zombies, fanatics with guns, some other scary things like fat guys that keep throwing 
 you something out of their mouths... and the more annoying enemies: Those fire throwing dogs and 
 the choking hands. Just wait until those two get at you and you will see what I mean. Nothing is 
 more satisfying that using weapons with them... Using a flare and waiting them for burn and run 
 screaming "IT BURNS!!!" or getting a zombie close enough to blast him off with a sawed off watching 
 it fly. Those moments have no price.
  
  During the game you play four episodes. Each episode with a final boss on each one: Cheogh, the 
 stone gargoyle; Shial, the spider queen and Cerberus, the hell's guardian. The fourth episode holds 
 the final battle against Tchernobog. The levels are ussually huge and very detailed. One of my 
 favorite ones is an Amusement park where you can interact with some of the attractions for big 
 prizes. One of the things I truly love about the game is the environment. It is truly a dark game 
 but far from being scary, it could be fun. Dark Humor is all around. SOmetimes you have some innocents 
 running around and you can shoot them with no cost. THERE ARE MIMES LAYING AROUND THE GAME!!! Isn't 
 that something you would expect in a horror game? Of course not. Part of the fun. The game uses 
 a lot of movie references, either on the design of the level or in movie quotes spoken by Caleb 
 during the game. Horror films fans would love to see and hear references from movies like "Psycho", 
 "Jaws", "Nightmare on Elm Street", "Friday the 13th", "The Shinning", "Seven", "Army of Darkness" 
 and sometimes others that are not from scary movies like "Apocalypse Now" and "Ghost" among them. 
 Most of these details are shown as secrets. That makes the game even more special, at least for 
 me.
  
  The online gaming was another big factor. It was fun as hell. Probably the best online experience 
 I ever had. There were basically three modes: Co-op Story, Capture the Flag and Bloodbath. All 
 of them pretty good being the only issue that you have a lot of disadvantage against those with 
 full arsenal.
  
  A game this amazing should be good, but it has its flaws, being the main one that it is too damn 
 hard! There are 5 difficulties which are based on meat cooking styles. You really need to play 
 the easier one "Still Kicking" to get used to the game. If you decide to go "Extra Crispy" you 
 will suffer. Sometimes you feel like your energy is being drained by a strange force... When you 
 have the disgrace to fight again anything that throws fire, you are going to lose energy as fast 
 as you can imagine... but the biggest bastards are the choking hand. The higher the difficulty, 
 the harder to get them out of you, but not only they get your energy... they blind you! And it 
 is impossible to take those out of you on the higher difficulty! The game is truly for hardcore 
 players. Another flaw is that the maps are not clear at all. You cannot see what is a door or not. 
 You have no idea what are you watching. It is almost impossible to watch it right and have a clear 
 idea where you are and some levels can be very confusing. 
  
  To conclude, Blood was a great gift I had the chance to receive in that time. A red jewel from 
 the big boom of FPS from the 90's. Probably it didn't bring innovation to the genre, but it surely 
 brought a creative and gory adventure that everyone who loves old school FPS will enjoy.
  
  "Good... bad... I'm the guy with the gun..."
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cunhao
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2009 5:32 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Blood, I had only 10~12 years old. I was beginning my life in games and Blood 
 was one of the most impressive games that I played and I never forgot it. Now, (makes some time... 
 maybe one year) I found it again and, one more time, I had the pleasure to play this wonderful 
 game. This is a true example of a real FPS game.
  
  The history is very simple, but justifies all the kills (you're killing hordes of demons, who cares 
 anyway?) . You control Caleb, and he and four friends had a pact with some sort of powerful demon 
 called Tchernobog. But, he betrayed Caleb and killed him and all his friends (one of them was his 
 girlfriend) , and now, Caleb resurrected and want revenge!! Very simple no? But just works fine.
 
  
  Starting with the weapons: they are all great, useful and fun to use. Almost all have a secondary 
 attack, making all weapons unique. Then, we have many items that will help us in our revenge: med 
 kits, boots that make you jump very high or fall from great altitudes without take damage , demon 
 vision and some more other items. Also, Blood have 3 different armor type (normal, fire and spiritual) 
 and Caleb can double his points of health with special items. 
  
  Blood is detailed at the maximum that the engine of its time allows. All the bodies of the enemies 
 that you have killed will stay until the end of the level. The same to all the decals in the game: 
 Bullets, bodies, items, weapons, explosions, fires, bullet holes in the wall's, doors and other 
 many objects in the game will stay, and all the (I don't know if I wrote right...) ''cartridge/case" 
 stay in the ground after you shoot even single bullet! No matter how much you fire, they will stay 
 there all the level (even if you save and load) .
  
  But what really, really shine in Blood is the design of each level. Some levels can have 4, 5 or 
 6 keys!! They are all well made, giving to the game what many new games can't make. Trains, stations, 
 ships, cities, villages, mansions, forests, hospitals and even a water power plant! Blood don't 
 have one level equal to another. All the levels are unique, with secrets, items, labyrinths, puzzles 
 and many others elements, divided in 4 episodes and each episode has his own boss.
  
  And all the enemies are special. They all have your particular way to scare you and make you feel 
 fear. And Blood don't forgive the violence. Monsters will explode, making pieces fly to everywhere, 
 heads flying out, bodies in the walls and crossed in skewers in middle of the streets. Zombies 
 will get out of his graves, rituals and black magic will be made... demons and more demons will 
 appear, all to kill you.. women and children dead in everywhere.. destruction, and blood... much 
 blood. And the best? Caleb will give a laugh every time you blow up some enemy! And some times, 
 he'll make some jokes, like when you're in the first level of the first episode: when you enter 
 in the some kind of church, he'll say "Open for business...".
  
  In the end, Blood became a classic that is fun, with great weapons, many unique enemies, good puzzles 
 and levels, sounds that don't stay behind and graphics that make all fit perfect for his time.
 
  
  #1 Revision# 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  We saw some great things come out of the Build engine. One of those is Blood by Monolith. In this 
 fps you get to play the role of a fallen cult member who seeks vengence on his former master. Armed 
 with enough guns and artifacts to bring hell to it's knees, you set out on an adventure with a 
 twisted sense of humor.
  
  Some of the content in Blood is well done while others parts just make you shake your head. You 
 will find some great easter eggs that reference cult horror classics such as Nightmare on Elm Street 
 and Friday the 13th. The game also has some dark humor that some will understand while other players 
 will be left in shock and awe. The game has it's serious points but you can tell that the devs 
 wanted to make this fun and full of wicked laughs along the way.
  
  There are some issues with Blood. The AI for the boss monsters is terrible. Most of the time the 
 boss will sit stuck in a corner leaving themself open for a full attack. Other times the boss will 
 just follow you along like a kite on a string, staying out of reach of harming you while you kill 
 it. There was also some questionable results in the different levels this game could be played 
 on. While selecting the 2nd from easiest made the game feel more like a normal challenge, choosing 
 the one below it was another story. When the 3rd level is choosen, you will find that the monsters 
 have god like accuracy, even if you are hidding half way across the map. 
  
  Even with it's faults, you are going to find lots of enjoyment in the 4 episodes that make up Blood. 
 There are many different strange and just sick places that you will visit, including a assisted 
 suicide ward and a slumber camp in the woods that feels like you stepped into Crystal Lake. While 
 it may be hard to find this title as of the date this review was written, I recommend at least 
 trying to obtain this freaky fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sohn_of_a_Gunn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Blood is a very good classic FPS that still packs great action and challenges up to this day. For 
 today's standards, the graphics may make some casual gamers think that the game looks like a gothic 
 shooting gallery. A couple things I really liked about this game are: 
  1. the great and well thought out level design, from coming out of a graveyard to a carnival, you 
 must admit that this game had good levels. 
  2. The Main character Caleb, he is dark and grim but pretty funny in some cases.
  
  If you ever 
 get your hands on this game, you will not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afpabon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Duke was a kick-ass guy, no doubt about it. But you know what? Did you ever meet Caleb? I don't 
 know how to classify this guy, but certainly a guy who comes back from the dead (with a creepy 
 I live... again tag-line and all) and grabs onto anything (hatchets, flare guns and even a voodoo 
 doll) to cause the most possible pain to his enemies is a bit more than kick-ass. It's awesome.
 
  
  Fortunately, it's also a well done game (how many times have we heard a great premise only to be 
 let down by yet another half-baked game?) . The action is even faster than it's greater brother 
 Duke Nukem 3D, and the weapons, even if really funny, are well balanced and are all actually useble 
 in some way (even clever, sadistic ways) .
  
  Up to this day I never understood why this game remained an underdog. If someone out there wants 
 to get a good laugh and doesn't mind the 2D graphics, though, it's not too late to get a great 
 time. Again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroid47
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  BLOOD was very different to the First Person Shooters out back in 1997. For one, the enemies weren't 
 your usual ordinary looking human or soldier/ marine found in most FPS's, they ranged from Cultists 
 to Flying Gargoyles to Spiders, Hell Hounds, Zombies, Bats, Butchers, Rats and even a spectral 
 Grim Reaper-style phantom. They also had a smarter A. I. than most games back then. The Cultists 
 can crawl on the ground for cover and will be quick to follow you if you run away from them.
  
  The weapons were also very different, as instead of a fist or a weak pistol as the starting 
 weapon, BLOOD had a pitchfork! Other weapons included a shotgun, tommy-gun, dynamite, flare gun, 
 Tesla cannon, napalm launcher, and even a voodoo doll! But the main thing unique about them all 
 is the alternate fire that you can use for clever tactics to outsmart your enemies in the single 
 player (or in the fantastic online BloodBath multiplayer mode) . For example, the dynamite's primary 
 fire is you light it, throw it and it will explode immediately, but with the alternate fire you 
 can throw it to the ground to make it explode several seconds later, which is useful when you know 
 when an enemy is approaching. Then there was the excellent level design. Levels nearly always contained 
 other routes leading back to an earlier area after reaching a later part of the level, and there 
 was also many hard-to-find secrets along the way too, making it actually enjoyable to explore. 
 Most of the levels connected together, with the end of the level sometimes being the starting area 
 of the next, i. e. the end of the level switch on the side of a train at a train station, and the 
 next level you would start on that train only its moving now, and you have to explore it. Levels 
 ranged from funeral homes to hotels to hospitals, stores, lumber mills, caves, mines, woods, various 
 temples, ships, carnivals, villages etc. so it made the game very fun to play through them.
  
  The game's plot (although its not really explained in the game) puts you in the role of Caleb, 
 a Wild-West gunfighter who became the leader of a cult known as The Cabal , in which you and your 
 lover, Ophelia, rose to the highest circle of, called The Chosen . You get killed by The Cabal's 
 dark god, Tchernobog, who hunts down all four members of The Chosen (Caleb, Gabriella, Ishmael and 
 Ophelia) . But one day, several years later, you rise from the dead in your grave and head off to 
 seek revenge on Tchernobog and all his minions, which is where BLOOD starts off. The creepy atmosphere 
 and art design provided is usually not found in video games (even in todays games) and made the 
 game very unique and original when compared to other Build Engine FPS games (Doom, Doom 2, Duke 
 Nukem 3D, Shadow Warrior, Redneck Rampage etc.) . It was mainly because it had great horror-themed 
 music and it took many of its inspiration from cinema (horror movies in general) , including The 
 Evil Dead, Nightmare On Elm Street, Friday The 13th, The Shining, Return of the Living Dead, Phantasm, 
 The Haunting, Dawn of the Dead, Jaws, Army of Darkness (among many others) and Poetry/Literacy 
 (the writings of H. P. Lovecraft, Edgar Allan Poe, Shakespeare)
  
  The Good:
  +Caleb's twisted humour (he also says things related to films or old songs) .
  +Brilliant, creepy 
 atmosphere provided by weird surroundings and eerie music.
  +Excellent level design.
  +Enemies and Weapons are great.
  +Varied gameplay and levels that are worth playing over and 
 over again.
  +Good art-ish style graphics that still make the game highly playable after all this time.
  
 
  The Bad:
  -The Harder difficulties might be a bit too hard for some people, with extra enemies in the levels 
 that do alot more damage.
  -No real storyline in between levels, although that was the case with most shooters of the time 
 anyway.
  
  Overall Opinion: An absolute classic that I'll always go back to. It truly was one game that really 
 did live up to its name. If you already have the game, I'd recommend getting the Plasma Pak and 
 Cryptic Passage addons too, as they are also essential.
  
  Highly recommended to any F. P. S. fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanedajjj5757
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 11, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  the late 90's was a point in time where technology in game developement underwent rapid evolution. 
 one of those game was BLOOD. though it has similar gameplay and physics to duke nukem 3d and shadow 
 warrior it holds its own as different breed of first person shooter. asuming the role of a guy 
 double-crossed by the devil, you emerge from your grave with pitchfork in hand (yes, i said pitchfork) , 
 and unleash your vengence on that cross your path. in retrospect, the game doesn't have graphics 
 that new-school gamers would call 'dazzling' but the focus on detail within the game is shocking. 
 you torch, dismember, and/or decapitate your opponents. when blow someone or something into chunks, 
 you can afterwards blow the chunks into chunks... well despite the violence and gore this game 
 is outstandingly good. well made and is higly entertaining, i recommend this to any advid gamer 
 or FPS fan... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RussianYulia17
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Though it has aged, it hasnt coagulated yet. Despite the decay of the genre around it, this Blood 
 remains fresh. Blood is an intense first person shooter by Monolith in a horror/dark humor atmosphere. 
 It is equally renowned for it's creativity and sadistic nature, as it is for difficulty. Blood 
 is a game for those who love first person shooters, and thus are at least moderately skilled at 
 them. Boasting a morbid cast of monstrosities, Monolith's hemoglobin opus pits you against a dark 
 cult, from which you play a cast down and sacrificed leader seeking your revenge. Swift axe wielding 
 zombies, shotgun and tommygun wielding cultists, severed choking hands, transdimensional reapers, 
 hell hounds, and all other manners of beast await you amidst the ravaged and bizarre landscapes 
 you traverse as Caleb, seeking to strike down the dark god Tchernobog, your former master. Blood 
 innovates to a greater level in how you can kill such abominations, from the typical shotgun and 
 machinegun (tommygun specifically) to the more creative in application, flaregun, dynamite with 
 remote or proximity detonation, and aerosol can with lighter for a flamethrower or quick firebomb.
 
  
  However it takes death a step further with the technological tesla cannon, the incinerating life 
 leech, and the sadistic assassin's favorite tool, the voodoo doll. More weapons await you in the 
 game, but even more, Blood offered a unique dimension for the times of alternate firing modes, 
 significantly expanding the tactical range of each device, and some could even have three functions 
 if combined cleverly. In Blood, you, and your opponents in singleplayer or multiplayer can be stabbed, 
 jabbed, shot, riddled, maimed, crushed, roasted, exploded, scattered, and castrated, and it has 
 the lush sprite artwork to indicate the misery all enjoy for the sake of others. But where can 
 such carnage take place? How about a funeral home, train station, an actual moving train, carnival, 
 a variety of temples, a city undergoing a bombing campaign, hospitals, stores, deep within the 
 woods, upon mountain peaks and moving sheets of ice, or even within the entrails of a giant creature? 
 Blood certainly offers variety for those who seek to beget the title name. Blood is outstanding 
 in two aspects that have been long forgotten in some aspects by modern games. Art design and sound. 
 Blood is an old game, on an old engine. But despite the pixellation and low resolution, it still 
 looks good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sut-typhon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 15, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This is what got me started in the FPS genre, just a great game. I used to get freaked out about 
 the game because of all the Satanic references but all in all it's just a great game! I think this 
 should be reworked and introduced back into gaming community that's how much I enjoy this game.
 
  
  You gotta get your helping of Blood, if your computer can run it. I really miss the horror FPS 
 genre everything is so military at this time, but we need more horror themed FPS titles. I think 
 eventually the genre will come back like a continous circle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  Another fantastic FPS game by the people over at Monolith.
  
  Your dark god made false promises and betrayed you. Now you've risen from the dead to seek vengeance 
 on anything that gets in your way!
  
  This Build game stood out at the time for being one of the most violent and bloody games ever. 
 Just imagine what Jack Thompson would say! LOL
  
  The graphics for the game were fantastic for the time, the sound was also very well done. The thing 
 that stands out the most for me are the weapons. Blood has 12 weapons very satisfying weapons, 
 especially the flare gun and the voodoo doll.
  
  The game combines good graphics, loads of gore, some dark humour and a little bit of horror to 
 provide you with a fantastic game that is still every bit as good as it was when it was first released.
 
  
  If your having problems running it try using VDMSound and/or DOSBox.
  
  This game should be in everyones collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5UPERMARIO
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 14, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  This game stood out from many of the other first person shooters around at the time and is still 
 fun to play today because of the following attributes:
  
  + Very fast paced, feels like you are constantly in the middle of mayhem
  + Original, sometimes 
 funny, very cool weapons
  + Lots of blood and gore for the horror hound
  + The fast paced nature of the game was great for multi-player
  + Game captures a certain Style 
 with its architecture and enemy models
  
  Some negatives about this game:
  
  - Style and violent content is not for everyone
  - Some parts of the game were extremely difficult
 
  
  All in all BLOOD was a very solid FPS when it was released, and it still is very fun to play today. 
 Happy Bloodletting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  What was it about the BUILD engine that guaranteed that every game made with Ken Silvermans brainchild 
 was drenched in attitude and eye-popping brilliance? Almost every BUILD game borrowed its contents 
 from other areas of pop culture  Duke served as an homage to action films, Shadow Warrior did 
 more of the same with an eye toward chopsocky movies, and Redneck Rampage grew from the myths and 
 sad truths about Americas backwoods trailer park ethos  and elevated them beyond the sum of their 
 parts into a gratifyingly familiar and undeniably fun interactive cartoon. Blood was an amazingly 
 detailed and inclusive tribute to both Lovecraftian dread and the giddy cheesiness of modern fright 
 flicks. Even though Bloods visuals are terribly dated by todays standards, its still one of 
 the most entertaining titles that Fangoria aficionados could ever want.
  
  For years, Ive secretly wished that Caleb, Ophelia, and Tchernobogs sick and strange love triangle 
 might find its way to the big screen, hellhounds and all. Failing that, I would be overjoyed to 
 see a third installment of Blood on the amazing Lithtech EX engine. Caleb is one of the most compelling 
 protagonists in FPS history; his bad-boy-gone-worse swagger and reverential approach to carnage 
 lure the player toward even more cathartic nastiness than usual. After all, would the noble Kate 
 Archer or stoic Number 47 take time out from a mission for a round of zombie head soccer? Calebs 
 weapons are equally notable, and I wouldnt mind if every shooter included a voodoo doll in their 
 arsenal (alongside the fire-breathing decapitated head from Shadow Warrior and Shrinker from Duke) .
 
  
  Every level in Blood is packed with cultists, spirits, and demons, especially on the more difficult 
 settings. Even though the BUILD engine is almost completely lacking in artificial intelligence, 
 Tchernobogs dark menagerie is still plenty capable of sending Caleb back to the grave. However, 
 the demented folks at Monolith were kind enough to match each episodes gradual increase in deadly 
 resistance with a very diverse tool belt; by the end of the game, Caleb will clear entire rooms 
 full of freaks with a slew of explosives and magic. I was never once bored while playing Blood, 
 and frequently found myself still wide-awake at 3:00 AM, caught in the throes of just one more 
 level addiction.
  
  Like the other classic BUILD engine titles, Blood does a wonderful job of gathering several memorable 
 characters, places, and events from books and movies into what was, back in 1997, a relatively 
 new form of storytelling. Even those who dont instantly recognize a reference to Lovecrafts Miskatonic 
 Valley or Ash Williams disembodied hand can get into the games fast-paced gameplay. Anyone who 
 does relish the laugh-while-cringing antics of such films as Dead Alive or Evil Dead 2 will probably 
 still  even almost ten years after the games release -- enjoy joining Caleb on his posthumous 
 rampage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooperTeam
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 21, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Oh man, this is one game that lives up to it's name. When I first saw this game, I figured that 
 it would just be another 3D shooter wannabe like Duke Nukem 3D. But, to my surprise, this game 
 actually rocks. This game has so much blood, it's not even funny (Well, okay, watching a zombie 
 burst to flames, that's funny, and using the rocket launcher on other enemies, that's funny, but 
 you know what I mean) Even though this is not a true 3D game like Quake, the blood in the game 
 is a lot more realistic.
  
  GRAPHICS
  =========
  Fantastic, if you only own a Windows 95 or 98, this is a game to get that will keep you busy as 
 well as amused for hours. Especially when you using the hi-res modes past 640x480. The draw distance 
 is great, if you use the hi-res. YOu can see your enemy coming miles away. Rest assure your weapons 
 will also reach their destination no problem. The enemies you fight and fight are very well detailed, 
 even if the graphics engine does use the Duke Nukem 3D. If you have Duke Nukem 3D, this is the 
 next game to add to your list. It's worth the buy for sure. YOu also get a good selection of weapons, 
 each with a primary and secondary attack. If you really want to see something nasty, use the Voodoo 
 Doll's Secondary attack and see what happens. You will also appreciate the fact that the maps are 
 very big, and some are very ingenious. If you happen to get that far, you will love the train ride 
 you go on (E1M3) .
  
  CONTROL
  =========
  Very well setup. There are a lot more keys to remember than in Duke Nukem 3D. Since there are some 
 objects and items you can pick up, each item is also assigned a particular key so you can go straight 
 to that item. Most of the keys assigned have not changed much since Duke Nukem 3D, but there are 
 some keys you will need to watch for since you have more keys to use. Most of which are somewhat 
 useless unless you just need to know the keys anyway. Mouse use is very nice, especially if you 
 have a track-ball mouse. As far as I can see it, Track-ball is the only way to play if you use 
 a mouse. Course, don't count out any game pad, they would be good use for this game to. Also, keep 
 in mind that this game has Multi-player feature, something you will love to use a lot if you have 
 some friends who are... well... BLOOD thirsty.
  
  OVERALL
  ========
  Blood, weapons, missions, monsters, zombies, blow stuff up, burn your opponents to a crisp, the 
 game has enough gore to keep you well satisfied. I assure you will not be disappointed with this 
 game. You will have loads of fun in single player, but better fun with the multi-player feature. 
 The game is worth the buy, just try not to be too... well... BLOOD thirsty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigRoachy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Blood is the name of the game. A game where you run around, and kill stuff, and blood goes everywhere. 
 Whether you're blowing stuff up with dynamite, burning things with your lighter and spray can, 
 or frying cultists with a plasma rifle, Blood delivers.
  
  You are Caleb, a bloodthirsty, undead, ex-cultist out for revenge against your backstabbing cult. 
 Rising from the grave with the infamous words, "I live.. again" you set out to rain hell upon anyone 
 who gets in your way. Sounds terrible, eh? Well, it's actually even worse. A game like Blood wouldn't 
 be complete without smartass one-liners from our anti-hero, and all kinds of sick, dark humor to 
 accompany you along the way.
  
  Speaking of the title, this game has a LOT of blood. The game revolves around the amount of blood 
 it pours into its ever so creative levels, and the amount that sprays out of your helpless victims 
 as your pour hot plasma, lead, and fire through their bodies. You start the game with a pitchfork 
 at the ready, and do some stabbing, but in the first few seconds you pick up what is probably the 
 most creative form of the pistol ever put into an FPS, the flare gun. In any normal FPS, the pistol 
 shoots bullets that eventually kill your enemy. Ho hum.. eh? Well, the designers at Monolith wanted 
 something different.. something bloodier. The flare gun fires a fiery bolt at the enemy which rests 
 in its chest for a second or two, and eventually explodes and causes the enemy to run around screaming 
 as they melt. Throughout the course of the game, you'll discover many improvised, and non-improvised 
 weapons for Caleb to slaughter his enemies with. These include the sawed-off shotgun, dynamite, 
 a plasma rifle, a napalm launcher, and a voodoo doll.
  
  Blood came out in 1997, after the launch of the Quake franchise, meaning that even for the time 
 the graphics were a bit behind state-of-the-art. Does this hurt the game at all? No. In fact, just 
 because they aren't amazingly realistic doesn't mean they're cool. Everything is incredibly detailed, 
 and mighty interactive. When you shoot an enemy, blood sprays everywhere, staining walls and floors 
 and leaving trails. You can kick around the heads of zombies that you've recently killed. The levels 
 are littered with human filth, demonic references, and strange satirical humor. There are even 
 3D weapon "models" floating around on the map. Speaking of level design, the game doesn't fail 
 in this department either. The game will take you from a deranged carnival, to a pirate ship, to 
 a haunted hotel, to inside a giant monster, and to the depths of Hell. Each level is designed with 
 sheer genius, none are too easy and some will have you thinking for a bit before you find the keys 
 to each room.
  
  The game does have some flaws though. Ironically, the biggest flaw the game has is the build engine 
 itself. Over and over again I found myself being crushed by a door when I opened it. And once in 
 a while I found myself stuck between two brushes and unable to move. Also, even with the satisfying 
 gun play and cool weapons, the gameplay can tend to get boring fast and I found myself just quitting 
 and leaving the seat out of the blue on a number of occasions. Other than that though, Blood is 
 a fun game that is worth checking out if you missed it the first time around back in 1997.
  
  (And for those of you that have the game, but can't run it, there is a way to get it running 
 again. If you follow this link, there is a step by step process that shows you how to get all of 
 your build games up and running on Windows XP: http://buildxp. deathmask. net/)
  
  Happy hunting folks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valherran
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 24, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  Monolith's devilis creation, Blood, this game was very well made when it came out, it had lots 
 of gore, violance, monsters and explosions! You could master this game is a week givin the time. 
 The gameplay is superb, fast action, and a lot of levels to rampage through, the bosses you fight 
 in this game are NEVER to be trifled with! and you will see them as a regular encounter in the 
 later episodes! The engine this game runs on is pretty basic, the weapons on the game have a very 
 good selection, my favorite was the voodoo doll! Multiplayer on this game is very hectic, no matter 
 how many people there are in one server, plus the game mode selections where were few but awesome, 
 i recommend this game to any newby First Person Shooters! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neogeo737
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  This game was so awesome for many reasons. First, it had an amazing choice of weapons including 
 the voodoo doll and 3 types of TNT. Good graphics for its time and a scary assortment of music, 
 which scared me as a kid. Good levels including a carnival full of surprises. Great enemies including 
 the hand that grabbed your face. Kicking the heads of your enemies after you killed them made it 
 all the more fun. Challenging bosses only added to the game. Not only did I love this game, but 
 so did my dad. Difficulty was easy enough on the lower levels, but definitely picked up on the 
 higher levels to give you a good challenge. A great game that went unnoticed to most people and 
 still worth giving it a try, if you can find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  This review is about Blood part 1.
  
  Graphics:
  Decent graphics for an old shooter game from the old times.
  The 2D look looks great, enemies 
 look cool, and weps too.
  
  Sounds:
  The old blood sounds sound very good for an old game, weps sound cool,
  monsters have freaky 
 sounds.
  
  Gameplay:
  Best of all, 4 episodes, lots of monsters, lots of monsters and of course bosses.
  The levels 
 from the game are very nice and wont bore you to death.
  
  Value:
  Good value, LAN online gameplay is quite nice.
  
  Variety:
  Good variety of everything.
 
  
  Online:
  LAN gameplay is good
  
  well thats my review, cya all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteelMeGaSE
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Can't forget Blood, one of the first shooter games I've ever played. I still have this game from 
 the release date long ago, and even when it was nearly destroyed by my older sister, it's still 
 in working condition. Though you can't play this kind of game on the Windows XP platform without 
 infinite slowdown, it doesn't mean you should give up on it. This game is better than Duke 3d in 
 my opinion, mainly because of how well it presents itself. Yeah, we all loved the Freeze-ray, Shrinker, 
 Trip-Mines, Scantily-clad strippers, hilarious catch lines and the awesome final boss fight of 
 the aforementioned game, but Blood plays better it seems.
  
  Almost no shooter fan doesn't know of Blood, and almost none of who knows of this game doesn't 
 know why it's titled like this. If you haven't seen for yourself, but you have a friend who is 
 lucky to have this on his/her computer, give it a look. Though you probably find anything remotely 
 violent in games now, you'll probably shut your eyes from the amazing gore. This is one of the 
 things that made me get this game, you can do nearly anything you can think of in terms of violence 
 to your poor enemies. From tossing the fun-to-use dynamites into a thicket of Cultists, to setting 
 an axe-zombie in flames, it's always fun to get out the guns to let loose your anger. It's more 
 comical than realistic though, since the gore is purely entertaining rather than shocking. I mean, 
 this game brought up the attitude in my parents to ban the use of FPS games on my computer, and 
 i'm freakin' 17 years old for Christ's sake! Enough of this, Play Blood, you won't forget the quality 
 it beholds.
  
  I won't mention graphics in here, its not required at all since it is an old title, and it was 
 behind the times during it's era, but it is still striking nonetheless. I have to mention the sound. 
 Like Duke, Caleb utters his own slew of remarks or, unlike Duke, a soundtrack sang by the antihero 
 himself. The levels are mostly unique in their own right, and some are downright scary or genuinely 
 interesting. 
  
  You can't miss on the amazing weaponry. It shouts at you, "GIMME A SHOT!". It's all meant for blood-letting 
 fun, like the Pitchfork, the Flaregun, the Dynamite, Shotgun, Napalm Launcher, Tesla Cannon, and 
 the Voodoo Doll, plus many more. What's more, many of the weapons have alternate firing modes. 
 What's another!? Some weapons can be dual-wielded, so you can unleash double the damage on your 
 enemies.
  
  You've missed out on fun if you haven't played Blood. Go and give it a shot now. Keep it in your 
 collection if you have it, it'll be a relic in the long run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzyfireball
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2005 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Blood is that type of game were you get that satisfaction for blowing that guy
  up. Or setting that guy on fire. Dont get me wrong! it's not like i'm gonna get a flare gun and 
 shoot it at somebody!. But you really do get that feeling
  were you wanna laugh out loud and do it again! 
  
  The Levels
  The level design is pretty 
 intresting, and takes place in many places
  like A moving train, A Church, A Hospital, A Supermarket ect ect.
  Altho I did get stuck a few 
 times, I managed my way. Also on some
  levels you might see some bloopers! but I dont wanna give them away.
  
  You Enemie
  Your 
 enemie is very dangours in some cases! you will be fighting zombies, cultists, Fanatics, Hellhounds, 
 Ghosts ect. Each monster has there own special Weakness & Stranght. So look sharp.
  
  Your "Toys"
  Your Weapons are very unique but super cool. You'll have Dynamite, A Spraycan & 
 Lighter for you own flamethrower and even a vododoll! Plus More. So go nuts! that is ounce you 
 find them!
  
  Finally the Mood of the Game
  The Mood is very dark but humorus. you character "Caleb" well say something funny but dark or from 
 a movie. Also Keep in mind that when it says "blood" it's not lying! Thier are Headless bodies 
 and that kinda thing!
  But if you dont mind it. LETS PLAY SOME BLOOD!
  
  Overall. Its just plain good'ol fun!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koroshiya_keefu
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 12, 2005 12:08 am PT
Review:  Blood is still ranked as one of my all time favourite classic PC first person shooters. Coming 
 out at a time when true 3D was becoming the norm, Blood was a breath of bloody fresh air in the 
 PC action genre. It is a pity it never became as popular as some other titles, but to me, I can 
 still load it up and have a good laugh! Nothing beats sneaking up to a large group of monks, lighting 
 up the slow burning fuse on a bundle of dynamite and lobbing it into the middle of the poor, unsuspecting 
 Monks. After a few seconds, the explosion rips through them and chunks go flying into the air! 
 I still think that no new first person game has brought that nasty feeling of gibbage back to the 
 plate. As a game, Blood is ripe with humour and atmosphere. Definatley pick up Blood for your PC 
 if you see it sitting around in a bargain bin! Classic first person violence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2k_rammerizkool
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2004 11:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is very underrated, if you ask me. Its a great game! Unfortunately, Blood II doesnt really 
 live up to it, but anyway, Blood II isnt as good as Blood at all, not even close. This game has 
 good graphics, even though its kinda old. Its good in its own way, lemme put it that way. The animations 
 are always fun to see. Like when you set people on fire, you cant actually see it and they run 
 around screaming, and eventually burn to a little crisp. The sound is very good, music sets the 
 mood, Caleb always says kind of... dark yet funny things, and the gun sounds, as well as enemy sounds 
 are great. Its just really fun. Also, the controls are easy enough (which is weird, because i dont 
 use hte mouse for these kinds of shooters) . The gameplay is really fun too. Its kinda hard, but 
 you usually dont run out of ammo, so you can always blast stuff. I HAVE beaten this, and its fun 
 from the beginning to the end. The level design is kinda... weir though. I got stuck a lot of times, 
 but somehow found my way. Great stuff.
  
  Bottom line, good graphics, great sound, addicting, fun gameplay, not TOO hard nor too easy, and 
 underrated. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
