-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blood II: The Chosen
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/blood2thechosen/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  4, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 6.6, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 509 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Developer: Monolith
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Oct 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's hard to fault Blood II for not doing anything new; it sets out to be a traditional shooter 
 and does a good, if not great, job. 

 The original Blood won numerous fans, despite the fact that it was a 2D shooter released nearly 
 a year after Quake made 3D environments standard. The clever level design and wisecracking antihero, 
 Caleb, made up for the fact that the game was a technical throwback. Now, just over a year after 
 the original hit stores, Monolith Productions has released a sequel. Based on Monolith's own LithTech 
 engine, Blood II: The Chosen features some strong technical elements. The engine provides solid 
 graphics (better than Quake II, not as good as Unreal) , decent control, and great animation. But 
 Blood II lacks some of the innovation of the original; the horror-theme is less pronounced, and 
 the level design doesn't stray far from the average.  

 Blood II is excellent in several respects. Most of the weapons look and sound great, with the most 
 notable example being the shotgun, which looks menacing and sounds even more so. The howitzer is 
 also noteworthy, while the submachine gun looks bland, though it sounds good. On the low end of 
 the spectrum is the Die Bug Die, a powerful insect repellent that neither looks nor sounds like 
 it should be one of the more powerful weapons. There is a wide variety of weapons, and because 
 you can only hold ten at a time, you must occasionally discard some. It's a nice feature, and one 
 that lets you tailor your arsenal to your liking.  

 The animations are another high point in Blood II. Enemies move smoothly and look great. They die 
 in a variety of ways, and you'll undoubtedly be struck the first time you see a human writhing 
 on the ground after a grievous gut wound. On the downside, Blood II's artificial intelligence leaves 
 something to be desired. Enemies usually won't attack until you come right into their line of sight 
 and occasionally won't respond when attacked. The AI is better than in the first release of Shogo: 
 Mobile Armor Division, Monolith's other LithTech-based shooter, but it's still nowhere near the 
 level of Half-Life's believable enemy behavior.  

 Blood II looks impressive. The levels feature diverse appearances and spectacular colored lighting. 
 The textures are great, and areas such as a tenement building and a museum are amazingly detailed. 
 The levels themselves are diverse as well. In the first chapter alone, you'll travel from an ornate 
 museum to a huge science facility to the alleys of an ominious city street to a futuristic flying 
 machine. The game sounds just as good, with funny wisecracks, great ambient sounds, and an appropriately 
 dark, techno soundtrack.  

 The major problem with Blood II is its pacing. Despite how good the levels look, they are at times 
 confusing, with a variety of similar-looking corridors. Blood II uses a very traditional level 
 design philosophy, and the need to find keys and push buttons is abundant. The designers are self-consciously 
 aware of this, including jokes such as a mission briefing that tells you to push some buttons and 
 kill some things, and a huge glowing sign advertising "silver key industries." Still, making jokes 
 about it doesn't really help. Worse, you'll often go back through levels you've already been through, 
 arriving at any number of dead ends until you find the new path that has opened since your last 
 visit. And while Blood II offers a variety of weapons and enemies, they are unevenly distributed, 
 giving way to long stretches of the game in which you face the same group of monsters with the 
 same group of weapons.  

 Blood II is by no means bad. In single-player, it is on par with Quake II, but lacking the innovation 
 of Jedi Knight or Half-Life. Multiplayer with the LithTech engine still suffers from some of Shogo's 
 latency problems, but the wide variety of weapons should make for some good deathmatching when 
 Monolith gets those problems fixed. It's hard not to feel that Blood II is a step back in light 
 of Half-Life; there's little sense of urgency, drama, or excitement. But it's hard to fault Blood 
 II for not doing anything new; it sets out to be a traditional shooter and does a good, if not 
 great, job.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: badsectoracula
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2009 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Blood 2 since it came out ten years ago. Back then, my computer couldn't really 
 handle it (i didn't had a 3D accelerator card and software rendering was too slow) , but i tried 
 to play it as much as i could anyway. 320x200 software rendering didn't really helped and it wasn't 
 until about 2003 that i got rid of my old habit to use a keyboard-only setup for playing FPS games. 
 So, as you can imagine, i found Blood 2 very hard (although, somehow, i managed to beat a large 
 part of the game using only the keyboard - a feat i cannot do these days that i'm used to a WASD+Mouse 
 configuration) . However the setting, the black humor, the awesome music made me want to finish 
 this game. Unfortunately it wasn't until a lot later that i did that, after i got used to the WASD+Mouse 
 setting.
  
  Although it has been a few years since i finished the game for the first time (and a couple of 
 years since i finished it for the second) , i decided to write a review about it. Not that it really 
 needs one, but meh i have a few minutes to spare and i'm sure Gamespot doesn't mind a few KB of 
 their database lost to my ramblings :-P
  
  So in this game you play as the undead anti-hero called Caleb, a former member of the cult Cabal, 
 worshipers of the dark god Tchernobog. Caleb killed this god in the previous game (Blood) , for 
 trapping him, his friends and his girlfriend Ophelia and absorbed the power the god to "bind" the 
 realities. For 100 years, the undead Caleb was wandering the earth living an underground life while 
 the absence of Tchernobog started to show its side effects: without someone to bind the realities, 
 they started to fall apart and creatures from another dimension are entering our own. In the meanwhile, 
 while Caleb was spending his time in underground bars and picking fights, the remaining cultists 
 of Cabal rebuild their cult as a mega-corporation called Cabalco with their leader, Gideon, to 
 be named as the 17th incarnation of the god Tchernobog. Only this god doesn't exist yet and Gideon 
 is pissed of with Caleb and his betrayal, so he seeks revenge upon him.
  
  Blood 2 has a big and complex storyline with parts of it being explained in the game, some parts 
 in the documentation and some other part in the game's site. Obviously Monolith didn't do a good 
 job on keeping the story together, although back in 1998 and until Half-Life 1 stories in FPS games 
 were considered as something optional. And this shows in the game.
  
  Although there is a story and Blood 2 is one of the first FPS games to use in-game cutscenes (utilizing 
 an engine feature that showed its true power in Monolith's excellent No One Lives Forever game) , 
 the story serves little purpose for the gameplay. It took me about two years to notice that there 
 is really a story in there (my bad English helped a lot here) , but it didn't bothered me. This 
 is because Blood 2 is a pure first person shooter: kill everything that moves, period.
  
  And that "everything" part is done in a so awesome way, you'll wonder why most modern FPS games 
 got a different direction with ragdolls and such. Sure, a bullet in the head cutting someone's 
 limb off doesn't look realistic, but it is fun. And in my book a game being fun is more important 
 than being realistic. So in Blood 2, you'll cut people's limbs off, you'll see them exploding in 
 several directions, you'll play football with their heads, leaving bloody trails as they bounce 
 around, cut them to small pieces with your knife and feed with their hearts to restore your health. 
 This last part is actually an interesting, even if a bit macabre, part of the gameplay: you are 
 encouraged to kill innocent people (or slice hanging bodies or other forms of raw meat) to regain 
 health. Sure, enemies sometimes live their hearts around too and this might not be politically 
 correct (a plague for modern games) , but your in-game survival depends on others' flesh internals.
 
  
  Surviving in Blood 2 is not an easy matter either and the AI is to blame for this. But unlike what 
 one might think, i don't blame the AI for being to smart; rather i blame it for being too dumb. 
 Enemies will stand looking at you - in some versions of the game, they might lose you if you crouch 
 - and sit there lost in their own world while you kill their peers near them. Some of them might 
 try to attack you, but if you're too far or the enemy has only melee attacks, it is more likely 
 their will get stuck in some corner or other element of the scenery than manage to put their claws 
 (or other features of pain they might possess) in your skin. The developers knew this and to compensate 
 they beefed up the muscles and weapons of the enemies, making you regret each hit you get. Fortunately 
 it is easy to avoid enemies and the levels are full of powerups, weapons and the much needed health 
 hearts.
  
  To do your job of (Caleb's) justice, you have a great disposal of tools: knifes, pistols, rifles, 
 rusty but trusty shotguns, bombs, miniguns, etc and the more Blood-y weapons like voodoo dolls 
 that hurt anyone in sight (or yourself if you are alone) , life leech staffs (that shoots fireballs 
 which hurt your enemies and raises your health) and flying orbs that make sure to remove any remaining 
 brains (and peripheral organs) your enemies have. However since there are too many weapons and 
 too little room for them in your belt, you can only choose up to 10 weapons. Once you find a new 
 weapon that you really want, you have to drop some other. Fortunately you'll find yourself using 
 only a few of them, so it won't bother you much. On the bright side (or dark side, depending on 
 your views) is the ability for many guns to use both hands with one gun per hand. Blood 2 is the 
 best game to hold four gunpowdered barrels against a room filled with monsters of any type (and 
 the game provides many types of monsters to disembowel, decapitate, set in fire and generally have 
 fun with) .
  
  Visually the game is very good. It was already good for 1998 standards, but even today the graphics 
 have dated well. I attribute this to the "segmented" models they chose to render the models and 
 the forced 16bit color depth. Although initially these two seem a bad thing, when you see them 
 from Blood 2's perspective they fit the game quite well. Having a bunch of segments in each model 
 makes the models having a little more curvy shape and the effect of cutting the parts from the 
 body looks much more natural. Also using 16bit color depth instead of 32bit, produces a lot of 
 color banding (gradients not being smooth) , which when combined with the low resolution textures 
 produce interesting shapes and color schemes. Somehow this works and gives a "diseased" and "rotten" 
 feel to the environment - a perfect feel for Blood 2. If 32bit color depth was used, Blood 2 would 
 probably look just blurry.
  
  The level design is good, even if a bit rectangular even for 1998 standards, with interesting details 
 here in there usually in the form of textures showing posters and signs. The only odd - but not 
 bad - aspect is the progression between different levels which sometimes feel a bit "forced". From 
 a gameplay perspective, the levels provide high levels of interactivity with almost everything 
 being breakable or somehow "usable" and decals such as bullet holes and blood pools remaining around. 
 This level of interactivity is hard to find in a modern FPS game which might have a much better 
 looking world, but it will most probably be a world made of steel and even when you get to spill 
 the blood of someone's on the walls, the cleaning service guys will come and clean the place while 
 you're not looking.
  
  The sounds - especially the weapon sounds - are awesome and "fat" and the comments the enemies 
 do are funny. Supposedly they talk a secret language, but this language sounds a lot like funny 
 baby talk. The music is very atmospheric and it managed to not get "in your way". It stays in the 
 background and provides an extra helping hand to the level design to raise the game's atmosphere 
 (a side-note here: Blood 2 depends on a DLL called "dslite. dll" which is a stripped down version 
 of the DirectSound component of DirectX. This DLL was removed in later version of DirectX and the 
 game does not play music in Windows XP and later systems. However fixing this is as easy as using 
 a hex editor to replace the string "dslite. dll" with "dsound. dll" in the AM18. DLL file. Alternatively 
 you can search google for Blood 2 music fix and you'll find a related thread in LithFAQ forums 
 which provides a patched version of the AM18. DLL file) .
  
  As a conclusion for this review (which, incidentally it took me longer than a few minutes, but 
 anyway) , Blood 2 is an awesome game which despite some (usually visual) glitches, has one of the 
 greatest "fun factors" you'll ever find in a FPS game with an equally high replayability value.
 
  
  If you don't have it, try to find it somewhere or vote in the good-old-games' suggestion to bring 
 Blood and Blood 2 in their electronic store. Blood 2 is one of the greatest games made and deserves 
 to be available for the years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hwoarang12
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Value: 10/10
  Reviewer's tilt: 10/10
  
  Person Shooter horror that takes place in United States. Our main character Caleb, is a deadman, 
 he's a living dead that came out from the grave. Caleb is an awesome character, very original with 
 great sense of humour, dark humour I can say. For example when we kill somebody we can use a taunt 
 and Caleb will say e. g.: "You're gonna bark all night little dogie or you gonna bite it?", "Howdie 
 doodie" and etc. He's words are very funny. Or when we shoot our enemy to the head and there will 
 be lots of blood Caleb will laugh hehe.
  
  The whole game is a classic FPS, we have lots of cool guns which will help us in killing the bad 
 guys. We will visit and kick some ass in many interesting locations like subway, factory, laundry, 
 city streets and more. Guns like two pistols, machine guns, sniper rifle, plazma gun are very cool 
 but I love two shotguns because they are just awesome and veeeeert powerful hehe. 
  As I said, the whole game has outstanding atmosphere and Caleb is a fantastic character. Too bad 
 that he doesn't have his prong from the first game which were great. 
  The action in Blood 2 is dynamic. We will kill lots of enemies from mercenaries to monsters. Despite 
 the fact that the game is old the enemy A. I. isn't bad. Yeah, they are preety smart.
  
  The graphics in Blood 2 was really good in a day when it was released but to tell you the truth 
 the environment and character models aren't bad. It's hard to tell how good the graphics from Blood 
 2 are good nowadays cuz the game is from 1998, but the gameplay is so awesome that graphics aren't 
 so much important here.
  
  The sound is really good, There aren't many soundtracks in the game but the voice acting especially 
 form Caleb is just outstanding that's for sure.
  
  So Overall Blood 2: The Chosen is an outstanding game. I can really say that this is a legendary 
 First Person Shooter, an instant classic. Caleb is an awesome character, really great to play. 
 I truly hope that Blood 3 will be released somedayI hope so. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrinningDemon19
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Blood 2 the chosen, oh our favorite dead guy is back for some more blood soaked fighting. Sporting 
 a huge graphics jump from the orgnial Blood. It was nice to see one of the top FPS make the leap 
 from 2d shooter to 3d shooter. The game play is much like your typical shooter, point gun end life 
 of something. But this like the one before it has several crazy weapons, like the voodoo doll or 
 the Telsa cannon. This game is the first one that I've ever played that has so many weapons you 
 actually have to choose what you're going to carry. There are more then one character to play I 
 didn't really see much difference in the characters but hey a different voice is a different voice. 
 lol. Some of the enemies in the game are pretty challeging which causes you to stop think. Like 
 the Shikari which jump a lot making them a bit challenging when not using the spray and pray method. 
 You also have those annoying hands that leap up and start choking you. Its a cool first person 
 shooter if your looking for a FPS that changes it up a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 1:26 am PT
Review:  I remember playing the demo, of which I download from Gamespot, and was very suprised by the graphics 
 and most of all the sound. The animations of characters were quite smooth which was quite a good 
 acomplishment at the time. Blood 2 did have a good mix of nice textures, good graphics, and great 
 sound but it lacked a key component that kept it from being a great game all around. A decent storyline. 
 Though it's been pretty much 10 years since I played this game, I have no memory what so ever about 
 what was going on in game and why. The levels were fairly diverse and the enemies liked to shout 
 and taunt you. Also another big feature was the ability to interact with a lot of your surroundings, 
 and by interact I mean merely being able to push objects around the room or destroy them, which 
 might not sound like anything special today, but 10 years it was quite rare to see something like 
 that in a game. All in all Blood 2 is just a simple FPS that's fun to play and though it might 
 not be worth many words, it was definitely a game worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2007 3:00 am PT
Review:  Blood II: The Chosen takes place the year 2028, 100 years after the events taking place in Blood. 
 The Cabal, the cult dedicated to the worship of the Dark God Tchernobog, has become a massive corporation 
 with influences in every major economic sector. Play either Caleb or one of the other three Chosen 
 characters as you strive to oust the doings of Cabal from Earth. Over thirty weapons are present 
 in Blood 2 such as the Mac-20 Sub-Machine Gun or Car-15 Assault Rifle. Twenty-five different levels 
 covering a variety of locations and enemies new and old add to the action. Blood 2: The Chosen 
 takes advantage of the LithTech 3D engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectronicPest
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  In 1997 one of my favourite shooters ever was released.
  It was eery, it was disturbing, it was voilent and tasteless, It was Blood.
  Fantasic level design, 
 destructive weapons, disturbing enemies and black comedy... not everyones cup of tea but a great 
 game for fans of the horror genre.
  
  In late 1998 a sequel was released
  Blood 2: The Chosen
  and that is what i'm reviewing right now.
  So lets get on with it.
  
 
  Gameplay - Fans of the first will be slightly disappointed here as Blood 2 is kind of linear and 
 theres much less exploration to be done in the levels. But don't worry as some of the levels are 
 pretty well designed and include nifty little secrets. The voilence, monsters, guns and black comedy 
 are still here with Calebs witty tasteless one-liners, some rather amusing phone-calls, a huge arsenal 
 of destructive weapons and buckets of blood. Some of the enemies suck like the new cultists, they 
 need to look more cultisty and not like a bunch of secret agents. The multiplayer is just awesome 
 but some levels are pretty sucky and small. So 8/10 here
  
  Graphics - The graphics are good. Most of the models and textures are what you'd expect from 1998. Better 
 than Half-Life but not as good as Unreal.
  
  Sound - The ambience is great. The monster sounds are sweet and the weapons sound crisp. Sadly the 
 music sucks and theres only 5 tracks.
  
  Overall - A good game but a disappointing sequel to Blood. Worth the buy though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToddHagen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 23, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  Blood 2 picks up a little while after Blood 1. Essentially Caleb has displaced the god he was following..... and 
 that makes another follower quite hacked off.
  
  Generally, the graphics were pretty good for the time when released, and the atmosphere is very 
 good. The story is weak, and several of the areas designs were being used over and over in the 
 course of the game. Most of all of that is a big blur now, but I do remember enjoying both the 
 difficulty and some of the more clever scenarios.
  
  Sure, there are a lot of shooters out there, but I found this one to be a little more compelling 
 than Quake 2 for instance. the weapons are good, and some of them are REALLY good. I hesitate to 
 recommend this to everyone - it can be a difficult game, and the atmosphere is very dark. But if 
 you like that kind of stff, it's enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  When the original Blood came out in 1997 or so, it was quite a cult classic, not only that but 
 it produced the B movie equivalent of Ash from Evil Dead, Caleb. Armed with a strong lead character 
 the game led you through a gory adventure to destroy the evil cult CABAL, a basic "kill foozle 
 story"
  
  Caleb is back in Blood 2, faced with the same adversaries. Fans of the original, I can tell right 
 off the bat, will be pleased with the sequel, the game has the same twisted sense of humor, the 
 strange weapons, and the same gruesome deaths you could cause in the original, but better.
  
  Level design is much better than the original, instead of the dreary Graveyard/Warehouse type 
 feeling of the first game, you'll go through various environments, from a musuem to a huge science 
 facility. The sequel inherited the same deviously hidden secrets as the original, except this time, 
 much more clever.
  
  Caleb is not alone this time, a few allies named "the Chosen" accompany him, each is skillfull 
 with different weapons and include their own personalized taunts. Although only Caleb recieves 
 hints and the little movies you get along the road.
  
  The protagonist's funny one-liners are back, and this time there's a even better soundtrack to 
 the game. The graphics have, of course, improved quite a bit over the first's blurry Build Engine 
 graphics, this time smooth 3D models will dazzle your eye as you ruin them with the blood of your 
 enemies.
  
  Even with all it's improvements, the game just doesn't deliver like the first did, although it's 
 much better a game, it's not up to snuff with the games that came out at it's time. All in all, 
 it doesn't deliver as much as the fun as the original did, but it's still a worthy trip down a 
 very, very, bloody road. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 6, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  There's loads of gore and violence and not just with the visuals. The people screaming and suffering 
 just makes your feel sick.
  A few really unique weapons add on to the suffering.
  The taunts are just great. Such lines are classic: "When you get to hell, tell them I sent you. 
 You'll get a group discount." Oh snap!!
  
  :Bad Idea:
  Multiplayer is really bland. Not just bland, but boring.
  The game becomes a bit repetitive 
 after a while.
  Not enough game overall to keep you busy for a long time.
  
  :Overall:
  Today, it's in the bargain bin so go get it. It's a very entertaining killer game. 
 All you really do is murder people because you're a sicko. That's what games are all about. Violent 
 games at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 1, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  Blood 2 is a good game with lots of weapons and enemies.
  It offers large maps.
  
  Gameplay:
  Good and smooth, with a large amount of enemies and weapons, which is really cool.
 
  Maps are very entertaining in many kinds of ways.
  Enemies are fun to fight with.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics really look good, for this game.
  Weapons and enemies look very realistic.
 
  Runs smooth too.
  
  Sounds:
  Not very much music, but the sounds are cool.
  
  Value:
  Can keep you playing for your whole life, if you get addicted.
  Which is good.
  
 
  Variety of gameplay:
  Nice nice nice, lots of enemies and weapons.
  
  Online:
  Never played online before so i cant tell something a bout the online gameplay.
  
  Thanks for 
 letting me write this review for Blood 2.
  Cya all 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
