-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: BloodRayne
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/bloodrayne/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  6, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 6.6, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 707 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Terminal Reality
Genre: Fantasy Shooter
Date:     Sep 13, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unfortunately, the gameplay in BloodRayne is every bit as derivative as the plot. 

  Terminal Reality has somehow made a boring game featuring a sexy vampire, buckets of blood, and 
 Nazis. BloodRayne may feature the va-va-voomiest bloodsucker in gaming, George Romero-style gore 
 that includes lots of decapitations, and everyone's favorite goose-stepping bad guys, but gameplay 
 is so predictable that you'll be stifling yawns even as you tear open jugulars.  

          Rayne isn't exactly a shrinking violet.     

  The story isn't going to win any awards 
 for originality, either. You play as Rayne, a half-vampire (otherwise known as a dhampir) working 
 in the 1930s for the secretive Brimstone Society. It has taken the sultry young lady under its 
 wing and turned her into agent BloodRayne, a warrior helping the organization protect humanity 
 from creepy things that go bump in the night. She's also got a bone to pick with evil Nazis searching 
 for arcane artifacts and with her long-lost vampire father, who started her not-so-happy family. 

  Sound familiar? Rayne is really just a female version of Blade, the Marvel Comics vampire hunter 
 popularized in the movie series starring Wesley Snipes. The Brimstone Society angle varies only 
 slightly from Terminal Reality's 1999 effort, Nocturne, which was also set in the pre-World War 
 II era and featured a US government agency of paranormal investigators called Spookhouse. The antiquity-hunting 
 Nazis have been borrowed from  Raiders of the Lost Ark . And Rayne herself is the stereotypical 
 game babe, complete with a heaving bosom and buns of steel that would cause Lara Croft to throw 
 an envious look her way.  

  Of course, you don't need an original story to make a great game. But, unfortunately, the gameplay 
 in BloodRayne is every bit as derivative as the plot. This is a stock action adventure game, with 
 a strong emphasis on action and lots of jumping challenges involving Rayne's deadliest foe, water. 
 Levels are of the "kill these enemies, then kill those" variety where you plug away from point 
 A to point B, with an occasional series of leaps to point C. Puzzles involve little more than finding 
 the occasional object or figuring out that you have to knock down a wall in order to move forward. 

  The settings are equally uninspired. You visit just three places over the course of your Nazi smashing -- the 
 Louisiana bayou, rural Argentina, and rustic Germany. Each comes with just a few different levels, 
 so you can wrap up play in well under 10 hours (there is no multiplayer mode) . Your investigations 
 take you to a castle, a swamp, a temple, a laboratory, and even a military barracks. The only thing 
 that's missing is a sewer. Nothing really stands out, though little touches like the moon shimmering 
 over water and lightning flashing in the background leave everything feeling somewhat creepy.  
 

          It's a shame that some of the genuinely spooky settings aren't utilized properly.     

 
  Showers of bloody gore are all that really make BloodRayne stand out from mundane action adventure 
 games like the more recent releases in the Tomb Raider series. Rayne butchers her way through the 
 opposition, employing more than two dozen weapons to slice and dice her mutant, mutant spider, 
 Nazi, demon, cultist, and vampire foes. The in-game armory includes precision pistols, shotguns 
 that can make ne'er-do-wells explode in a gooey mess, and more intimate devices like Rayne's harpoon 
 (which can pull victims to her much like Scorpion's spear in the Mortal Kombat series) and her 
 huge wrist blades. Get going with the latter duo and you can flat-out shred enemies, going so far 
 as to cut off limbs and heads.  

  Yet all this carnage isn't very interesting. The limited novelty in being a killing machine wears 
 off after you discover that there is little to do aside from plowing ahead and clicking buttons. 
 And the control system is awkward with either a mouse-and-keyboard combo or with a gamepad, particularly 
 because the camera never seems to give a good angle on the action. Jumping puzzle sequences can 
 be absolutely maddening, as you can never quite nail your landings.     

  Combat involves just a few standard attacks and a limited number of combos. New attack options 
 are featured when Rayne goes into blood rage mode -- a berserker option available when you kill enough 
 enemies with blade attacks to max out the bloodlust meter -- but these appear to be nothing but speeded-up 
 variants on the regular attacks. Many similar console-oriented action games, such as Devil May 
 Cry and Buffy the Vampire Slayer, handle combat better and use more special moves to keep play 
 from becoming repetitive.  

          That's one way to take care of Nazis.     

  Terminal Reality does include some promising ideas that liven things up, but the developers never 
 go far enough to rescue the gameplay from mediocrity. Rayne indulges her vampiric nature by feeding 
 on defeated enemies. This allows her to both regain health and apparently get a few jollies. Orgasmic 
 moans are uttered every time she digs into a human snack, and she even goes so far as to mount 
 victims lying on the ground and wrap her legs around those who are standing. No points for subtlety, 
 although the developers have to be given some credit for really earning that Mature rating.  

 
  Rayne also possesses a number of interesting special skills as a half-vampire, most notably, "dilated 
 perception." This is a take on Max Payne's bullet time, where Rayne slows everything down to better 
 evade enemy fists and bullets. It isn't as well realized, however, as after a few levels she can 
 turn it on pretty much at will for as long as desired. You can sail through entire levels with 
 the game set on slo-mo, which takes away from its special nature. Other skills, such as the aura 
 sense that allows Rayne to detect enemy health, and the extruded view that lets her gaze into the 
 distance as if she were looking through binoculars, aren't very useful at all. You can complete 
 the game barely ever using the former, and the latter is only helpful in specific instances.  

 
  Another strike against BloodRayne is its outrageous system demands. Terminal Reality apparently 
 took the lazy way out with this console port and didn't bother properly optimizing the code for 
 the PC. So the recommended system requirements include a Pentium 4 2.53GHz processor, 512MB RAM, 
 and a GeForce4 Ti 4600 -- pretty steep considering that the game looked good and ran well on the 
 PS2, Xbox, and GameCube when released for those platforms earlier this year. You need every bit 
 of this power to keep frame rates chugging along, too. If you really want to play BloodRayne, and 
 you don't have a state-of-the-art gaming rig, you'd be best off sticking with one of the console 
 versions.  

  But at least you do get some fairly attractive pictures for your troubles. Terminal Reality has 
 always put together impressive-looking games, and BloodRayne is no exception. Rayne herself is 
 stunning, in a goth hooker way with lots of skintight leather topped by Kool-Aid-red hair. Most 
 of the locales are quite atmospheric even though the sites have been seen many times before in 
 many other games. The opening bayou cemetery and the much later German castle have the potential 
 to send a chill up your spine.  

          Rayne isn't all teeth -- she uses a variety of weapons during the course of her adventures. 
     

  Animations, however, are atrocious. Rayne's movements are terribly jerky, to the point where it's 
 hard to keep her under control. Audio quality isn't any better. Character dialogue is absurd B-movie 
 pap filled with unnecessary expletives. It's also very hard to follow. All conversations have been 
 treated with an echo effect that makes every line sound like it was recorded in a bathroom. Many 
 of these lines don't match up. Characters seem to be talking past one another, leaving you to wonder 
 if the voice actors were reading from the same script. And finally, sentences frequently overlap 
 each other. If not for captions, at times it would be impossible to understand what is being said. 

  There just isn't anything here that causes BloodRayne to rise above the crop of third-person action 
 adventure games currently competing for space on your hard drive. While the blending of sex and 
 over-the-top violence is initially intriguing for those who like their games on the spicy side, 
 annoyances like the complete absence of originality and depth and the frustrating control system 
 mean that there isn't much here to hold anyone's interest for long.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: benwrong
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I am not a fan of shooters so i have not played them all but have played enough to know what is 
 good and bad. I will admit the main reason i first tried the game is the because it had a sexy 
 redhead vampire as the main character who wore skimpy cloths but i was surprised to find a decent 
 game too boot. I am a big horror and Sci-fi fan so i found the story very interesting. If you are 
 a shooter fan than this is decent game to try at least once but do not look for a breakthrough 
 experience. If you are a fan of horror and vampire games than this will be up you're ally or at 
 least it was for me. Overall a better than average game but nothing to make stand out from the 
 rest. Bloodrayne is A Good shooter, Good story and makes a decent game but nothing to make you tell 
 everyone about this new game you just played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow997
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Well i think this game is great !!
  graphic is really good for these time when they create it ... well its not extra optimized but 
 its really great though ... sound its really at high position than i like it ^_^
  gameplay and i want say somethink about that :)
  well heres you control really sexy half-vampire 
 ^^
  you kill bad ppl, monsters, zombies, mutants etc. 
  well this game is better than bloodrayne 2 well br2 have better combos and all but this game is 
 better at all well thats all ^^
  please dont read above line ...
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  BloodRayne is one of the most under-rated games around. The game plays flawlessly on all platforms 
 and is one of the most fun games that I have ever played. The heroine of the game is Rayne, a super 
 sexy dhampir ( half human and half vampire) who thwarts the third Reich and vampires of their plans 
 of world domination and discovers her own past. Rayne fights as a warrior for the Brimstone Society 
 that serves secretly to protect the world from vampires.
  
  The game has a wide variety of weapons which includes guns, blades , explosives and much more. 
 The environments are large and take place in the Louisiana Bayou, Argentina and Germany. The game 
 play has many fighting puzzles with unique ways of using her vampire skills. I found this game 
 to be quite refreshing with excellent replay-ability and had anxious for BloodRayne 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  What a strange game. BloodRayne is the creation of professional marketers, inept level designers, 
 great texture artists, shackled quality assurance testers, passable voice actors and absolutely 
 amateurish and juvenile story writers.
  
  BloodRayne suffers from jittery, unrealistic character movement, stupid cutscene direction (somebody 
 actually thought it would be cool for this female version of Blade to show her middle finger to 
 defeated boss enemies) , virtually lifeless and artificial maps, disjointed, nonsensical drama and 
 zero-dimensional characters.
  
  "Nice legs, shame about the face" is a famous phrase that sums up the reason for BloodRayne's existence. 
 In this case, "face" metaphorically represents every other aspect of good game design, which was 
 ignored or dismissed in this cynical and disposable SKU.
  
  Phill "Sniper" Parker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pagano
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 30, 2007 1:00 am PT
Review:  So, what can i say about BloodRayne.. I didn't play that very much. Maybe an hour. It was quite 
 hard to me. Maybe if i have the chance to play it again, it will be more easier then. 
  To me was the best thing about the game-the story. I liked it. 
  Graphics were normal (not best, 
 not worst) . 
  Gameplay was default (similar to other games) . It seemed like a typical fantasy game. Kill and 
 escape and kill some more. 
  In conclusion i say BloodRayne is avarege. 
  Sorry my bad english, but i think i can't make my point in my motherlanuage. So i try to write 
 as good as i can. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: It plays well.. which basically means its pretty easy to play.. in fact the game is VERY 
 EASY.. and just a time killer in reality.. the only challenging part is the end boss.. but even 
 then a few tries and you'll be able to get it.. I give it a 7 since its easy to pick up and just 
 play.. Graphics: decent.. but not great so a solid 6.. but the in-game cinematics are very good 
 so it kicks it up to a barely 7... Sound: The music and sound effects are okay.. nothing special 
 . I would give it a 5.. since I wouldn't call it decent.
  
  Value: poor.. 4? No real replay value.. and only good to play through once.. Tilt: I would give 
 the game an overall 7 since it was good.. but not just fair .. I had fun, which is a definate plus.. 
 since I have played games that were not fun . Total: Add all those scores up and it gives the game 
 a 6.. a fair rating but I actually enjoyed it.. so I'll give it a 7.... call me crazy.. but I just 
 can't see myself giving it a 6 for some weird reason.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kueiyen
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 10, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  The game is very fun. Although the story is very weak that you play as a super-hot half vampire 
 chick who taken on the assignemnt to eliminate Nazi party. But you tend to ignore the brain-dead 
 story becasue the action is really fun and fast pace. The game is one of the earliest game who 
 use disamble body physic really well as you can see how you manage to cut or shoot emenies in pieces 
 with blood splatting everywhere with they screaming in agony. However, the game use auto aimming 
 system which there isn't a lot of technique that might differenate players' skill in this game 
 except how fast you click the mouse and how to douge attack. The special skill you learn in the 
 game such as zoom in vision, bullet time, and vision to see vital energy are really useless in 
 combat, excpet the berserk mode that allow you to inflict heavy damage in a limited time.
  
  The graphic is somewhat below the standard when it was published but it is forgivable.
  
 
  Altough, the option menu indicates you can use a gamepad. But to collaberate the gamepad is simply 
 impossible, I did somehow get it to work but the movement control is horrible. So you better stick 
 with good old fashion mouse and keyboard which works really well (except some jump trick that you 
 need to do to get from point A to point B) . The game designer still make the same mistake in the 
 sequel (God, they never learn) .
  
  Although the game is not perfect, but it worth to play for the lust of slaughtering. Thus I highly 
 recommend to anyone who want to re-visit dated game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taig
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  BloodRayne is an great game in the tradition of predecessors like Oni, Blade of Darkness, and Vampire: 
 The Masquerade -- Redemption. In fact, even saddled with the irritating cant-save-where-you-want 
 curse common to most ports, BloodRayne cant help but shine as one of the best action games I can 
 remember. Though the game starts out slowly (with the exception of the stunning intro) , if you 
 persist through the relatively brief Louisiana levels and on to Argentina, youll be rewarded with 
 a gaming experience that is the richest, darkest, and most genuinely creepy since System Shock 
 2. BloodRayne is blessed with an exceptional graphics engine for its time, which when coupled with 
 the coolest slow-motion effects ever (ala Max Payne) , makes for a visual feast when it comes time 
 to take on multitudes of Nazis and the undead. Likewise, the audio environment and sound effects 
 are superb and effective in creating real dread as you wander the many dark corridors and caverns 
 in search of prey. I had the usual concerns about console-to-PC compatibility/playability issues 
 but Im happy to say that I didnt see a single bug or even hiccup in the game, aside from a mysterious 
 difficulty with the audio in cut scenes getting clipped sometimes. The control interface in BloodRayne 
 is excellent and all keyboard controls are customizable in an intuitive manner (which is really 
 saying something in view of the complexity of moves and attacks available to Rayne) ; something 
 that can often make or break a game of this genre.
  
  If there is one caveat -- and this certainly isnt a criticism, just something to take note of -- BloodRayne 
 is without question the most graphically violent game Ive ever seen and it makes no apology for 
 utilizing every square inch of its Mature rating. So if youre offended by realistically rendered 
 and often gratuitous violence in your games youd do well to look elsewhere, but if you like you 
 enjoy a dark, sinister, and bloody tale told on your own PC this Halloween, look no further -- BloodRayne 
 delivers the goods and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgarcia3
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This Game is VERY underrated its actually pretty good
  
  the story line is intriguing it is in no way unoriginal
  
  It has a set of bosses that will 
 astonish you. It has lots of gore so fans of gore games will LOVE this game The games music is 
 very addicting as well
  
  Graphics could have been better but Good graphics does not a game make.
  The voices are amazing 
 Raynes voice was great, Mynce's voice even greater, the butcheress, Jurgen Wulf, The doppelgangers, Hedrox 
 and everyone else had pretty good voices only that the game would cut them off
  
  This game is awesome i believe it is worth the money
  
  its only nowadays about 5 bucks console 
 port
  
  I suggest if you LOVE vampires if you LOVE blood, If you LOVE killing nazis, and if you love fighting 
 demons, mutants, and wacky bosses this is the game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katsaf
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 20, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  O. K so far this game has gotten some pretty bad reviews, but after playing the entire game I found 
 it to be very addictive. It has some really nice cut scenes and the game play is fun as well. The 
 graphics are pretty good and there are no bugs or choppy game play. The one problem I did have 
 was with the controls or movements, there are just way too many maneuvers you could do with bloodrayne 
 that it just makes the whole thing a little confusing, I found my self just sticking to a couple 
 of key maneuvers that worked pretty well, but eventually you will find yourself trying to master 
 every possible maneuver that bloodrayne can do. The story line is pretty dam good itself, it wont 
 bore you to death. The sultry voice over for bloodrayne is done very well. I also enjoyed the beautiful 
 / sexy graphics of bloodrayne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btindall
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  Sure this game has some points against it, but I think Gamespot certainly underrated it. Okay, 
 so it's a console port -- but it's a good console port. The game did not crash on me once. The game 
 played very well with mouse and keyboard. What more do you want? Especially when you can buy it 
 now for under $10, as I did.
  
  Okay, so it also has a derivative plot and gameplay. But since I don't spend all my waking hours 
 playing games, I hardly noticed. I had fun with it.
  
  This is not a button masher. It's more about choosing the right tactic at the right time. It's 
 also one of the few games which actually gives you an additional tactical challenge by playing 
 it on hard difficulty. On hard you have to time your attacks correctly. Most games will simply 
 throw more (or stronger) monsters at you to call it hard .
  
  The character also fits the story in this game, which is a bit of a rarity for female action heroes. 
 I take one look at most of those heroines and I say, no way I can believe she can go up against 
 all these powerful monsters and beat them to a pulp! Cover of a fashion magazine, maybe. Beating 
 up the bad guys? Ridiculous. Not so here. I could believe the character, within its own universe -- well, 
 at least to an extent. It was fun dashing into a warehouse with about 20 bad guys and taking them 
 all down with vampire powers!
  
  What I most disliked about the game was its juvenile attitude toward sexuality at times. That certainly 
 does not fit in a game rated Mature. It definitely loses points for that stupid approach. Also 
 it loses points for being gory, though at least it fits into the game universe.
  
  I did have one technical problem, in that the dialog kept getting cut off at the ends of sentences. 
 I had to read it fast if I wanted to know what they were saying. Other than the above mentioned 
 issues, I can recommend the game for those who like a combat action-oriented game on the PC that's 
 now quite reasonably priced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 13, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Okay, one would think that seeing a sweet looking woman in tight leather going around and flaunting 
 her stuff while leeching onto the neck of every guy in site would be a bit stimulating right? Okay, 
 calm down guys, this is just a game afterall. Anyway, the game has merit, but it's also very repetitious 
 towards the end. You get better guns to shoot with, but when it comes to new abilities that's something 
 that you have to wait a while for, and there are not many of them. This is essentiallly any fps 
 you have already played, but with a vampire twist thrown in the mix. All in all the game was enjoyable, 
 but there were a couple of places that I'm not sure how you are meant to survive. To say that certain 
 doom was the intent of the programmers in those areas would not be stretching the truth. However, 
 if you stick it out and play through to the end I think you will enjoy the trudge. However, I wish 
 there was a somewhat more satisfying ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xombie1806
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 30, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  what is the diffrence between bloodrayne on pc and bloodrayne on gamecube??? ive played teh gamecube 
 one ( i used to have it but got rid of it ... dont know why) and i was thinking of getting 1 coz 
 i found it cheap xD but the rating isnt as good as the game cube one ....... WHY???? help :S help 
 help help help help help help help help help help help help help help help help help help help 
 help help help help help help help help help help help help help help help help help help help 
 help help help help help help help help help help help help help help help help help help help 
 help help help help help help help help help help 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kajqrd
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 24, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  In Bloodrayne you take the role of the half-vampire Rayne in here fight against the Germans during 
 the second world war. As such you fling yourself through the air dodging bullets and biting germans 
 whenever your health gets too low. The variety of the game is it's major problem. Basically you 
 just go from one enemy to another killing more people. In this way it resembles a game like Serious 
 Sam. The environments are quite huge and sometimes a bit hard to find your way around. The graphics 
 are quite good and the sounds help the athmosphere quite a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 24, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I had played the second bloodrayne game awhile ago and never got to play the original, mainly since 
 the game got very poor reviews from most sites. The game does somewhat deserve that score but I 
 think it does deserve higher. While this game doesnt try to do anything new and has average, below 
 average graphics.. (well it was released in 2003) Alot of the low rated games I find to be very 
 fun and enjoyable and this is one of them. The game is a 3rd person shooter or slicer, having you 
 go to different locations trying to find the source of monsters that have begun appearing. The 
 games combat is simple but fun and somewhat satisfying although much of the game is very easy which 
 could be taken as a good or bad thing. Most enemies can be killed instantly by feeding on them 
 replenishing your health, but there is some strategy to it because you need your blood rage power 
 to kill the boss enemies and that can only be done by doing regular attacks. I think problary the 
 worst part of the game is the enviroments because they all look pretty ugly and are bland at most 
 areas. You have the beginning the swampy town, then the german base and a mine which eck why do 
 they need a mine in this game, and finally a castle. Another thing thats a hit against the game 
 in the cutscenes the animations look really bad but in game its pretty fluid and works alright. 
 The sound effects and voice acting are all pretty good, and i couldnt really notice much music 
 in the game.. One line i found particulary funny is the undead german who goes Im going to wear 
 you like lederhosen lol I downloaded this for 7.95 on steam and it is 100% worth it for that much.. 
 dont pay more than 20 dollars and u should be likeing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 13, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  Bloodrayne is the epitome of an enigmatic game. It mixes the good with the bad in so many facets 
 of its presentation and gameplay, but it holds the ultimate trump card of a being a lot of fun. 
 For all its flaws and for all the things it should have done so much better, Bloodrayne is a very 
 enjoyable hack, slash and shooting game with a protagonist with attitude and array of cool effects. 
 If the developers had spent a bit more time with some of the programming and presentation, made 
 the game a bit more challenging and added a little extra variety, Bloodrayne could have been a 
 classic. But it's probably good enough as it is.
  
  Set in 1943, you play as Rayne, a half vampire (Dhampir) outcast that has been recruited by an 
 underground sect known as the Brimstone Society which is out to eliminate all paranormal activity. 
 Of course to eliminate such you need a practitioner of the same, so they may as well recruit one 
 with one of the best racks in gaming (until Alexis Sinclaire got her upgrade) . You are subsequently 
 tasked with investigating a 'zombie outbreak' in New Orleans. And low and behold, the Nazi's are 
 behind it all. During the New Orleans mission and then onto Argentina and Germany you will engage 
 many foes through the use of guns, a huge set of steak knives (that are apparently attached to 
 your wrists) and your fangs to get to the bottom of the whole sordid ordeal. Expect plenty of blood 
 and severed limbs and plenty of cool attacking moves along the way as you romp through the 30+ 
 mission campaign.
  
  The graphics are mixed bag, no doubt about that. It seems that the developers spent so much time 
 making Rayne (and her .... erm.... assets) and her mate Vance looking spectacular that they forgot 
 to add much detail to the rest of the characters. Rayne looks the part, no doubt about that. But 
 some of the zombies, creatures and enemy soldiers look particularly awful, with no definition or 
 detail whatsoever. The bosses are big and bad but only average in terms of definition and creativity. 
 The environments are solid and decently put together, but ultimately quite repetitive. Your enemies 
 lose body parts as you slash away or at times fall in a cloud of red mist, but it is mildly amusing 
 seeing them running away minus an arm or two. The weapons are all reasonably detailed, the knives 
 are big and bad, and the cut scenes are pretty good, but could have been better. It all moves along 
 very smoothly as well, even when there is plenty happening on the screen. At their best, the graphics 
 are very good. At the worst, they are downright awful.
  
  The sound is pretty good, with decent ambient sound effects as you creep through the swamps of 
 New Orleans of the hallowed halls of the enemy. The gunfire and firefights sound realistic enough, 
 but the Germans sound pretty cheesy when giving orders or being fed on by Rayne. The voice acting, 
 as a whole, could have been better and there were also times where it took the game quite a bit 
 of time to get the voices working, even when the subtitled text was already on the screen. However, 
 Rayne has some suitably sensual groans and sighs that will keep the blokes happy and the close 
 up hand-to-hand combat sounds effective enough. There is minimal music both during the game and 
 at the title screen (except for the credits) but what there works well in atmosphere and presentation.
 
  
  The gameplay gets home on a spilt decision. Firstly, its very repetitive. Essentially its thirty 
 plus levels of run, climb, hack, slash and shoot with extremely elementary puzzles and goals. There 
 is an exception of one level where you get to use a walking tank and face-off against similar. 
 Its is an enjoyable diversion from the standard game and there should have been more of it. And 
 whilst you do pick up extra moves and abilities as you progress through the game, it is ultimately 
 a shoot fest or a button mashing exercise if in close combat. Raynes special abilities, however, 
 add some useful variety and fit into the game quite well.
  
  The game is not that hard either. The default difficulty level will not test the experience gamer 
 and even the big bosses are neither daunting nor difficult to beat. Whether its zombies, Nazis, 
 wolverines or other beasts that youre up against, its not too hard to clear a whole floor of 
 them, and if you get into trouble, just start feeding on them all  as they seem to leave you alone 
 if you are feeding on one of their brethren.
  
  The story is simplistic but logical and progressive. The cut-scenes kept the game rolling along 
 and they were also used quite well to identify hints and goals. It certainly takes a turn for all-out 
 weirdness in the German campaign of the game, but it did create a bit of variety.
  
  Now this may all sound a bit negative. However, Bloodrayne has one solid saving grace, and that 
 is the fun factor. It is an enjoyable game with some spectacular scenes and moves. It is very enjoyable 
 and satisfying (and at times humorous) slashing your way through dozens of foes. The Blood Rage 
 ability is worth the price of admission (and makes boss battles easy) and there is some wacky humour 
 through the game, especially when overhearing the lewd conversations of the enemy soldiers before 
 kicking their door in and slicing them to ribbons. The pace of the game is crackerjack until the 
 end and it will probably have you searching for the sequel if you havent already played it. Theres 
 even a movie now. Bloodrayne has a certain cult status, no doubt about that.
  
  The game took between ten and eleven hours to complete on the default difficulty. There are no 
 save-game points during missions, so expect to have to replay the harder missions again and again 
 (about three of them only) . There is no multiplayer, and except for using some of the bizarre cheats 
 (you want a bigger rack?) there is little replay value. Go to the sequel, I guess.
  
  I purchased the game for AUD$9.95 and I am satisfied with that. It is now available on Steam for 
 US$9.95 and that is also decent value for money. If you like this sort of game, you have nothing 
 to lose.
  
  In then Bloodrayne just gets home on the 'fun' factor. It is a real mixed bag in terms or presentation 
 and the gameplay is quite linear and repetitive. But it's a whole heap of fun to romp through the 
 missions causing carnage with the arsenal at your disposal. Throw in some decent effects, an almost 
 petulant (the last thing she does is extends the middle finger) but ultimately identifiable heroine 
 and you have a game that provides an enjoyable experience. Flawed? Yes. Fun? A bigger Yes. 
 Bloodrayne will entertain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 26, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  I've played through Bloodrayne twice now. The second time like most games was a bit more boring 
 than the first. The gameplay is more simple than in BR2. The grappling hook is just for grabbing 
 people at you for feeding - they made it have a more useful in BR2 however. You can jump higher 
 than in BR2 - there are a few frustrating parts near the end of the game when you have to jump 
 around on things too much. She runs too fast, though, they slowed her running speed down a bit 
 in BR2. Hitting bad guys builds bloodrage, and you use it to kill stuff faster.
  
  I didn't really think the graphics were that good until I got a stronger video card and could run 
 it in Direct3d at 1600x1200 with some filtering added onto that. If you can get it running smoothly 
 at that, some things look as good as Bloodrayne 2 (in some cases) .
  
  In 8-9 hours you could finish this game probably. But any longer and you would be too bored to 
 finish. Especially since the last few levels are really boring. You can usually tell when they 
 add pointless length, and they did added some really long crap near the end which really sucked. 
 Many of the boss fights were much more straight forward compared to BR2. The boss in the first 
 level felt like one of the hardest... I cheated on the last and final boss because I wanted the 
 game to end. I tried a bunch of times and just gave up. I ran out of guns and health each time... 
 they made the last boss a crappy battle. At that point, you just want the game to end anyways. 
 Savepoints are sometimes a little too rare at times. I hate to redue whole levels because of one 
 mistake. Load times are fast. And the levels are fairly huge too. About the same size as Bloodrayne 
 2 it seemed. It's a short game, but it's fun killing nazi's, the lack of attacks like you have 
 in BR2 make this get boring quickly unfortunately. Last but not least. Theres a juggy cheat that 
 makes her rack bigger. Fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhorahill
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 21, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  Bloodrayne puts you in control of Rayne, a cold blooded and sensual vampire whose objective is 
 to hunt down and eliminate Nazi soldiers. Dead simple, eh?
  
  The plot is very bad in Bloodrayne but it's easy do ignore it since it only plays a secondary role 
 in the game. The focus of Bloodrayne is on its never ending and exciting combats, sensual and deadly 
 maneuvers and good cutscenes. You attack the Nazis but you might've been dealing with mobsters, 
 CIA agents, Muslim, armed drug dealers or any one still foolish enough to attempt to control an 
 ancient demon.
  
  Rayne is not an actual vampire, she's the offspring of a human being and a Vampire. That means 
 she does not have some of the regular vampire weaknesses but she does rely on blood for sustenance. 
 Rayne's strength will increase throughout the game in the form of superior combat maneuvers and 
 an interesting number of powers.
  
  The game's graphics are nice and the engine - infernal - is quite solid. You control Rayne in third 
 person view, with fast camera movements and quick turn-around. Rayne's model is sexy and her acrobatics 
 is nimble and nice to watch. What else would you want from a Vampire ? Aiming is automatic and 
 the results depend on your position - it's easier to hit while you're standing still rather than 
 doing a backflip - on your enemies speed and on the distance. It's pretty easy to get a good shot. 
 Soon in the game you'll get a power called dilated perception, that makes everything go in slow 
 motion, matrix style, and you can easily dodge bullets and better understand the shooting dynamic.
 
  
  Melee combat plays in important role in Bloodrayne. Though capable of using Panzerfausts, grenades, 
 pistols, rifles and machine guns, Rayne's deadliest weapon is a pair of 4-foot-long blades attached 
 to her wrists. The game has been designed so that you do not care much about firearms. You pick 
 them up, shoot until you empty the magazines and leave them on the ground, you don't collect ammo. 
 That does not mean firearms are useless, they're just not the main attraction.
  
  Once you come close to an enemy, the game's engine allows you to tear enemies' bodies apart with 
 your blades. You can sever an arm, a hand, the head, part of the head, slice an enemy in two in 
 various angles etc etc etc. Injured enemies will scream and flee, leaving a trace of blood until 
 they die. As one might easily guess, dilated perception + melee = lots of blood, gore and body 
 parts :P
  
  As you cut down through the enemy ranks, you find yourself facing a number of occult creatures, 
 part of a Nazi plan to rule the world that surprisingly turn against them. Clich&eacute; s aside, 
 there is a number of interesting soldiers and boss battles. I'd highlight the butcheress, a half-naked 
 sexy melee fighter and a priest whose altar turns into a TOW.
  
  The dialogues are witty, funny and do a good job of depicting Rayne as a sadistic bloodthirsty 
 fiend. The cutscenes are very nice not only when it comes to beauty but they also convey very well 
 Rayne's charisma and style.
  
  It's a great action game that nicely blends firearms, melee, gore and a very nice main character. 
 Though killing Nazi-cultist has been done a lot of times before, it's never been done with that 
 much style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 23, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  Well, there's a lot of bosses to kill, that use different tricks on you, and your main character 
 has some skillful combat tricks to show to your enemies.
  The only thing i liked about this game is that it has lots of creepy places and unique bosses, 
 other than that there is nothing special about this game - you look for your target and kill it 
 in the end. Also the game lets you use firearms - useful against long ranged world war II machinery.
 
  The story is plain NOTHING at all and the game is mostly boring - not worth your collection really. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Back_Slash567
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 27, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  BloodRayne... one good word to desribe this game "disgustingby it's agenda and by it's gamplay. 
 In this you play as a "Xeon-like" vampire named Bloodrayne, and in the game you invade castles 
 and bases filled with "evil" Nazis minding their own business, working like any army would and 
 you the "heroine" BloodRayne come to "save the day" by ripping their heads off, burning their skin, 
 and gouging their necks for blood (how innocent ) . Besides it's moron-agenda this game has no gameplay-value, 
 really I'll sit throught Return to Wolftensten or Call of Duty have some fun doing it, but this 
 game is awful and by that I mean awful controls, awful sound, awful qraphics all the way around. 
 Well now that you have about the bad stuff, you might wonder about the good.. well the game does 
 make the Allied forces look stupid and barbaric after they do sent in a vampire and besides that 
 the game manual and it's contains are 100% recycable so you should have no problem throwing this 
 game once you come to realize it's pretty bad. 
  
  Well enougth about that subject, now I'm to go do something more useful like play Soldier of Forture 
 
  Regards,
  Back Slash 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 9, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Bloodrayne is a pretty simple third person action shooter that puts forth a great story and nice 
 atmosphere. Unfortunately, the boss fights and game in general tend to be too easy and in the end 
 leave you a bit unsatisfied.
  
  The game stars you as Rayne, a vampire that works with an agency that protects the rest of the 
 world from breakouts of the supernatural. She has been trained since her birth to complete this 
 mission. She starts out in 1940s Louisiana, where she has to fight a demonic outbreak that leads 
 into a bigger conspiracy with Nazi Germany trying to use the occult to take over the world.
  
  Taking control of Rayne in the game is quite easy. On the PC, the standard WASD key structure 
 is in effect and it should only take a user a few minutes to get the hang of the controls. Rayne 
 can also dual wield weapons as well. She has her standard blades that are controlled with the left 
 mouse button, and the guns are controlled with the right button. She also has a Blood Rage that 
 can be activated after earning enough melee kills. The Blood Rage is like a super vampire mode 
 that pretty much wipes out anything on the screen and slows everything down to make the killing 
 even more graphic.
  
  Graphics are good in some places and just fugly in others. The character models are really good 
 and show a lot of detail. And I do mean a lot of detail. The women tend to act like the women of 
 DOA with their bouncing assets. It is pretty exaggerated. The men also look good, but you can tell 
 that the designers put in overtime on the women. The environments also look nice, and have a good 
 varied feeling to them. Unfortunately, I had several occasions where I got stuck in walls and clipping 
 is quite rampant. I guess bouncing breasts take precedence over collision detection. It is nice 
 to know that the game is compatible with widescreen resolutions. It takes some modding of the configuration 
 file, but it works.
  
  Sound is done nicely and really stands out. The voice overs are pretty good for the main characters, 
 but a bit generic for everyone else. The conversations that the characters have are really funny 
 and add a lot to the game, similar to the way they did in No One Lives Forever. The weapons sound 
 pretty good and pack quite a punch. The feeding sounds however are very repetitive and sound like 
 bad porn. Look, I understand that when Rayne sucks blood, it is suppose to be somewhat erotic according 
 to vampire lore. But it does not need to sound like a late night Skinamax sex scene. The score 
 in the background is quite nice and I would not mind having the soundtrack if they had one.
  
  Now while the game is good, there are some things that tend to hold it back from greatness. 
 First off, the game is just too easy. Barring a section here and there, I breezed through the game. 
 Eight to ten hours max. The bosses that you fight are really not that hard as you progress through 
 the game. Even the end boss was pretty simple once you figured out the pattern. That was a letdown. 
 Also, the graphical glitches would get in the way at the most inopportune time, like in the last 
 boss battle, I would keep getting caught in a stairwell wall and I would get shot to death.
  I did not mention this before, but the cutsequences that are movies are pretty good and seem as 
 if they were done by a good studio. I forgot about them, because there were only three or four 
 of them in the whole game. Normally, they stuck with in engine cut scenes. They are good, but they 
 feel totally outclassed by the video cut scenes. I would of gone with one type or another, not 
 both.
  
  So what are we left with? Well, its a decent game that will give you a nice go through. It is 
 always nice to kill Nazis. Have we ever played a game where we wished we were not killing Nazis? 
 It is a competent shooter that plays on the easy side of the tracks. In the end, you will have 
 fun with the game, but you will wish you had more of a challenge during your playtime.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 6.1
Date: Feb 6, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  This game should be great. It features an occult storyline, vampires, Nazis, a sexy heroine, and 
 several innovative ways to slice and dice enemies. The elements are there for a cracking game. 
 The fact that the developers have failed to deliver on these elements is quite worrying.
  
  BloodRayne is an attractive game, with atmospheric settings and high levels of detail in the various 
 environments, not to mention the beautiful undead heroine of the title. Looks just don't compensate 
 for substance in this genre though, and it soon becomes a repetitive trawl through the levels. 
 The enemies are varied, interesting and in some cases genuinely quite frightening, however the 
 difficulty balance seems to be all wrong. The general, everyday Nazi soldiers die without any effort 
 whereas the larger more alarming bosses seem to verge on impossible. This makes for a very frustrating 
 experience. I like to be challenged, but I expect to be able to win at the challenge eventually.
 
  
  The plot has the potential to be very good, however it is presented poorly and at times is explained 
 badly through garbled, off centre dialogue. Half the time I had no idea what was going on, I was 
 simply killing Nazi's and spider creatures because they were trying to kill me. The objectives 
 and storyline seemed to get lost somewhere. The voice acting is good, but the script is so useless 
 and irrelevant to the plot that sound really becomes quite unnecessary.
  
  Surprisingly I had no issues with stability, and loading times were miniscule, which was a pleasing 
 aspect to the otherwise puzzling experience that is BloodRayne.
  
  I'm not sure if it's a blessing or not, but the adventure is remarkably short. I completed the 
 game first time around in well under a week, though I admit to the occasional use of cheats to 
 get me through a couple of the ridiculously hard battles. 
  
  Rayne herself has a few special abilities and gains new ones as you advance through the game. The 
 non-combat orientated abilities are frankly surplus to requirements, and while its nice to see 
 different ways to chop up spiders and historical right-wing extremists the combat based special 
 abilities really don't add much to the overall game.
  
  I guess that the developers were trying to appeal to the audience who grew up with the early Tomb 
 Raider games and who were now open to a similar but far more mature game. While they nail the mature 
 element, they sadly fall appallingly short in creating something that could rival the Tomb Raider 
 franchise in terms of gameplay. Plus with no multiplayer facility to add a different dimension 
 to the game, the poor adventures replay value is low.
  
  BloodRayne should be a great game - it has elements to suggest it could be, though sadly it falls 
 short through a lack of care by its developers. It looks great though plays very badly. This could 
 have been one of the best games that I own, though sadly it languishes towards the bottom of the 
 pile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2004 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I am surprised that Gamespot was so hard on this game, especially the PC version. The PC version 
 is exactly like the console, expect it has better graphics. Sure, this game has derivative game 
 play, predicable game mechanics but I can level that charge at SO many games. **cough** Doom3 **Cough**
 
  
  I like how it incorporated vampire powers (slow time, increase strength) , hand-to-hand (or in this 
 case Blade-to-hand) combat, and gun play action. The bosses are entertaining as well. Don't get 
 me wrong, this is no max payne -- but it ain't chopped liver either.
  
  If you are a vampire fan this game has plenty to offer.
  
  Check it out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wrathorne
Rating: 3.7
Date: Nov 14, 2004 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This is a ok game but dont pay full price wait for the bargain bins
  I have no use for games that dont let you save when and where you want. I just dont have time 
 to play through a hole level before I can save. At least Hit Man corrected this with there new 
 releases I hope Blood Rayne will do the same. The only thing that makes Blood Rayne tolerable is 
 the easy way you can enter cheat modes to get through a level that has gotten boring from having 
 to start from the beginning for the fifth or more times
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1alboogie
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 20, 2004 5:48 am PT
Review:  It really is a good game. It has a few flaws, but for the most part it's a good game.
  The beginning is a little slow, but once you get a little farther in the game, it rocks ( bloodshed 
 and bodyparts everywhere, what more could you ask for?) . The graphics are O. K., but nothing to 
 brag about. The sound and background sounds are decent. The gameplay is great ( once you get through 
 the beginning ) , you have a nice assortment of weapons to use, not to mention her wonderful blades 
 that are always with her. The game really isn't hard to play, which makes it easier to enjoy, and 
 by now I'm sure you could find one at a bargain price somewhere. If you have any doubts try the 
 demo, it's free and then you'll see it's really a pretty good game. It's worth the look into, can't 
 wait for BloodRayne2. Happy Hunting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xcalibrknight
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 13, 2004 9:41 am PT
Review:  This game is all about 2 things: sex and violence... and what fun it is to play. I take the middle 
 of the road from the 2 reviewers before me. The game is pretty cheap now (I've seen it for $15-20 
 used) , and you can jump right in it with almost no learning curve. The story is cookie cutter at 
 best, but who reads playboy for the articles? The gore can be excessive, and there's even places 
 in the game where the enemies will come at you non-stop if you don't advance past a certain point.. leading 
 to piles and piles of body parts and blood spatter everywhere. The downside is the difficulty level 
 (it's easy) , so crank it up if you play alot of shooters or jedi academy-like games.
  
  This game has the usual cheats, including a breast-enhancement code... I can just see the guys in 
 development sitting around thinking that one up  :o If you search fan sites, you'll find many custom 
 outfits you can put on Bloodrayne including lingerie and other sexy garb. If you like killing tons 
 of nazi's and undead creatures, AND you like to look at a pretty hot gaming chick while doing it, 
 then get the game. It's not an academy award winner, but more along the lines of a great value 
 saturday night video rental. Good fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loshead
Rating: 5.6
Date: Oct 8, 2003 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is AWEFULL. Its ashame the amount of hype this game recieved prior to release. When i 
 first heard of the game, a half vampire/human female with blades atached to her fore arms, is able 
 to hold two automatic weapons while being able to drain you a couple of pints of blood was cool. 
 With that in mind this game had potential. How completley was I. First off the Camera is horrible. 
 There is nothing more frustrating than a camera that doesn't cooperate. Besides running around 
 shooting nazis this game is a button smasher. The combat looks cool but after a while it starts 
 to become stale. Nothing farely ever changes, you kill a bunch of nazis move on, find a battery 
 movie on, find notes movie on, kill more nazis. This game is definetly linear. The graphics arent 
 bad, but the tectures of the walls could of been cleaner. Overal this game is poop. Stay away far 
 away. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
