-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blood & Magic
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/bloodandmagic/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  7, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.5, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 56 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Tachyon Studios
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Nov 25, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Blood & Magic's basic premise is entertaining enough that die-hard strategy fanatics may be able 
 to overlook its interface problems. 

 A lot of things go into making a good real-time strategy game. Westwood's Dune II, perhaps the best 
 example of the genre, featured novel gameplay, a great license, crisp graphics, loads of different 
 units, and challenging level design. Since then, most of the titles released in the genre have 
 been strong in some of these categories, and weak in the rest. By combining an excellent license 
 and strong character design with mediocre graphics and irritating AI problems, Interplay proves 
 that Blood &amp; Magic is no exception to the rule.  

 First things first. Blood &amp; Magic is the first strategy game to take advantage of the tried 
 and true Dungeons and Dragons universe. Each of the game's scenarios (which must be completed in 
 order of difficulty) features a different section of the gameworld, and takes you through different 
 storylines. Static cutscenes detail the player's progress through each scenario as she tackles 
 everything from the return of the living dead to a princess with marriage problems. Although the 
 tales serve their purpose (they give you a reason for ordering around damned souls) , they never 
 really seem to take advantage of the richness of the AD&amp; D game world. This sort of "make do" 
 attitude pervades the gameplay as well.   

 Blood &amp; Magic basically revolves around the creation of small polymorphs called basal golems. 
 Created in a sort of "home base" area called the Bloodforge, basal golems form the backbone of 
 a player's army by performing several rather varied functions. These useful creatures can: move 
 about the screen (very slowly) and explore the world; attack enemy creatures or structures (which 
 I wouldn't recommend if you plan on winning) ; sit still and generate mana (the "resource" of Blood 
 &amp; Magic) ; and, if next to a friendly structure, turn themselves into another unit type. Gameplay 
 revolves around keeping enough of these little boogers alive to generate the mana you need to create 
 more golems, while still leaving enough energy to transform a few of them into useful units - druids, 
 wizards, wraiths and such.  

 This, in and of itself, is not the problem. The problem is, that in order to efficiently collect 
 the mana from these creatures, players must highlight their icon, and click a "gather mana" button. 
 That's right, every 30 seconds or so a player is expected to stop what she's doing and return to 
 each of her basal golems to click a button. Not only is this mind-numbingly tedious, but it starts 
 wearing on the wrists in no time at all. The golems will (after a minute or so) eventually discharge 
 their mana on their own, but players needing it quickly (and players will just about always need 
 mana quickly) will have to do it manually. Add this to the poor unit movement routines (trying 
 to move a group of soldiers through a narrow opening can take what seems like forever) and you 
 have a game that is never as fun as it seems like it should be.  

 Blood &amp; Magic does have some strong points. Level design is well balanced and challenging, the 
 available units are interesting and varied, and there's a two-player mode that allows network, 
 modem, or serial connection play. Blood &amp; Magic's sound is excellent, complete with a pleasant 
 soundtrack that doesn't wear on your nerves, and superb sound effects that expertly accompany the 
 onscreen action. Best of all, players can choose which side of a battle they wish to enter, a feature 
 that doubles the product's play time.   

 Even with all its problems, Blood &amp; Magic's basic premise is entertaining enough that die-hard 
 strategy fanatics may be able to overlook its interface problems. Unfortunately for everyone else, 
 the game's lackluster graphics and poor controls just aren't enough to make long-term play worthwhile. 
 If you're really into AD&amp; D, or you're looking to give yourself a case of repetitive stress 
 syndrome, Blood &amp; Magic may be what you've been waiting for. Anyone else will probably want 
 to wait for one of the many other real-time strategy titles available later this season.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  Blood and Magic (1995, Interplay and Tachyon Studios) is a Real-Time Strategy (RTS) game set in 
 the Forgotten Realms campaign. Just to clarify, this one was the first Strategy game to use the 
 Dungeons and Dragons license, not Dragonshard (2005) .
  
  You play as a wizard who controls a Bloodforge, some sort of a portal which must be used to create 
 your basic units, the Basal Golems. Those guys, while standing still, assumes the form of an obelisk 
 that constantly generate Mana for you. The Mana is one of the two resources you have in Blood and 
 Magic, and it's widely used throughout the game. For instance, you use Mana to create more Basal 
 Golems, structures and cast spells from several units. The other resource you have is the Experience, 
 which is acquired mainly after killing enemy troops and buildings. With Experience you can (and 
 must) research different types of units, naturally more powerful than the Basal Golems.
  
  By now, you must be wondering why you would play Blood and Magic instead of Warcraft II or Command 
 and Conquer, since so far there is nothing particularly interesting about this game. To be honest, 
 if you can ignore its interface problems, Blood and Magic is one of the most intriguing RTS games 
 ever developed.
  
  Your Basal Golems don't exactly build structures, like the human peasant from Warcraft series. 
 The Golems must be placed in special spots, called "foundations", in order to be transformed into 
 one of the five buildings available. On most of the campaign maps you already start with a structure, 
 but nothing is against if you decide to destroy it and build another one of your choice. For example, 
 if you don't like the evil units from the Crypt, you can use the same foundation to establish a 
 Temple to create Clerics, Furies or Paladins.
  
  Not only your new structures need Basal Golems, but also the new units you're going to create. 
 To do that, you must place a Basal Golem adjacently to the desired building and click on the "transform" 
 button. Then you'll have the opportunity to choose between the available units, which you have 
 at least one initial option for each structure. For instance, Barracks allows you to create Warriors, 
 but after acquiring enough Experience, you can research the Ranger and he will become available 
 at the Barracks as well.
  
  Some units have special abilities, and it's impossible to finish Blood and Magic without using 
 them. All the special skills cost Mana, except to the "Mana transfer" ability of the Basal Golems, 
 of course. To illustrate: Clerics can heal wounded units, Gnomes can repair damaged structures 
 (and eventually Stone Golems) , Nymphs can cast Lure to persuade enemy creatures, Wraiths can use 
 Fear in order to fright and separate units etc.
  
  But those skills aren't the only things that differentiate creatures. You must consider movement 
 type and speed, attack speed, damage and defense. For instance, Griffins are flying but slow units, 
 which are extremely useful if you're going to make an assault against the opponents Basal Golems. 
 The damage dealt is roughly like this: Attack minus Defense. However, some units can take advantage 
 depending on the type of terrain they're fighting. You probably should consider letting a Ranger 
 to fire arrows while standing still on a dense area of thorny plants, since most units cannot pass 
 through that type of terrain without taking damage, while the Ranger does.
  
  It's a bit difficult to talk about story in Blood and Magic. There're five campaigns, each one 
 with three maps and a difficult. When you beat the first beginner's campaign, you unlock the next 
 one, which the game considers as "intermediate", and so on. Naturally, the player will prefer to 
 start with the tutorial, since the first campaign is already a little too harsh for newbies to 
 learn the basics. When you choose a campaign, you'll have the choice to select the wizard you want 
 to play. Basically, the difference between the two available mages is only the color: blue or red. 
 You'll notice that the maps are exactly the same, and only changes your Bloodforge starting spot 
 and your initial building (if there is one) .
  
  Most of your followers can carry items, which are found throughout the map. Sometimes these items 
 are useful and perhaps even fundamental for your victory: some can give protection against evil 
 or good units; others allow the creature to walk on water; healing potions make your units to last 
 longer; the Storm Bracers give additional damage, and the list goes on. But I think the most important 
 item is the Mana Orb, which disappear after been picked up, but instantly gives you a crucial Mana 
 boost. 
  
  Each campaign has its own story, and it's completely apart from the others. The world is the same, 
 but the avatars are different and there is no connection between them. If you want an advice, skip 
 the cutscenes and go directly to the action, since those stories aren't intriguing in any way. 
 For each map you'll receive the lose and win conditions, which are mostly about destroying the 
 enemy's followers and structures while preventing him to do the same against you. But there're 
 some variants too: destroy the opposite keep, or protect a village from the opponent (which will, 
 of course, ultimately leads you to kill him) .
  
  Nevertheless, to accomplish those simple objectives you'll need to take your time and prepare yourself 
 for a harsh experience. First of all, you start all the maps with a substantially negative handicap 
 (which increases over time) . While your adversary already comes with trained soldiers, you must 
 rely only on your Basal Golems. And when you actually begin with some useful combat units, your 
 opponent has much more. Also, even after beating the majority of your enemy units, you'll notice 
 that he will re-create everything too *****ing fast. Even after killing all the Basal Golems of 
 your adversary, you'll notice that he's still creating more and more from the Bloodforge. Naturally, 
 your Mana is increased periodically, but at a very low rate, meaning that it's impossible to reproduce 
 what the Artificial Intelligence (AI) manages to do.
  
  If the apparently cheater AI wasn't enough, the controls in Blood and Magic are a bit difficult 
 to get used to. Using your Basal Golems to transfer the so necessary Mana is very cumbersome. You 
 must cycle between ALL your Basal Golems and click in the "Transfer" button. To speed things up, 
 you can use the right mouse button or the "S" key, but you still need to select each Golem individually. 
 Fortunately, after charging the maximum amount of Mana, the Golems automatically transfer it to 
 your reserve, but you can't always wait for that to happen.
  
  Worse than managing your Basal Golems is to order five or more units to move simultaneously. As 
 most RTS games, you can select a group of units by dragging a box around them, and Blood and Magic 
 also features that option. The problem is with the pathfinding of your creatures, which was horribly 
 done. You can bet that, after issuing an order to move several units together, only one or two 
 will reach the destination at a reasonable time.
  
  So, both the given handicap and the gameplay mechanics are against you, but what makes Blood and 
 Magic so hard is the strategy itself. Each map you have to use the proper units against your enemy. 
 For instance, Wraiths can kick *** of most of the strongest creatures, but it's completely useless 
 against Paladins. And, as I said above, you must consider the terrain you're fighting, unit skills 
 and the gathering of Mana. All of those aspects must work flawlessly at the same time, otherwise 
 you're finished. After the second campaign, you probably had already mastered the most important 
 things in this game, therefore making the gameplay much more rewarding.
  
  Blood and Magic doesn't end with the regular campaigns. After finishing those, you unlock the Legendary 
 Campaign, which is where the real fun begins. Now you can choose your color and personalize your 
 avatar, and as far as I could understand, if you personalize a bizarre wizard, he or she will receive 
 a proper alignment. Since I played with a "good looking" dude, the game set my alignment to Lawful 
 Good. The Legendary Campaign grossly repeats the maps of the regular game, but that isn't a bad 
 thing since the maps are mostly well done. I found the last Legendary map (the only one that actually 
 differs from the original campaign) the most difficult one in any RTS game, and it's very... captivating.
 
  
  If the single player isn't enough, there is a two-player mode available as well, which plays much 
 like the solo mode. The connection works fine, but you'll surely miss a support for more players.
 
  
  Despite its interface problems, Blood and Magic is a quality game. The graphics are OK and the 
 sound is just great, although you'll probably get ****ed with some sound effects, such as the transferring 
 Mana from Basal Golems or the using of the Heal spell. Nonetheless, I didn't experienced (or noticed) 
 any major bugs in the entire game, although I was playing the already patched version (1.01) .
 
  
  Blood and Magic was developed for hardcore RTS gamers, and undeniably isn't for newcomers in this 
 genre. Maybe that was the reason that this title wasn't a success, or perhaps it's about the game 
 mechanics, which is very difficult to get used to. Anyway, if you're after a deep and tactical 
 game, Blood and Magic may gratify you with dozens of hours of challenging gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allendar
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 9, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Blood & Magic is one of those fast, but still fun games. The game is, in my oppinion, a bit to 
 easy, and really way to short. I think if they will ever make a sequal of this game in a new coat, 
 including a longer story and more difficulty that it surely become something that would bring interrest 
 at those whole love the mix of roleplaying aspects in RTS games.
  
  About the gameplay, there isn't really much to complain. Altough the game was released with some 
 bugs, that could be seen through. There wasn't realy much orginality in the varriaton of the environment 
 and the untis, altough it pleased much to see the units "that" you had at your disposal becoming 
 more usefull in the certain situations of the game.
  
  Graphics isn't really that was different from all other games from that year. It was the casual 
 block builded environment and also the units moved very static.
  
  Sound isn't really something that was pleasing. Can't really complain about the whole sound/music 
 idea, but it just bored to fast. It's better to put on some great David Arkenstone or Enya.
  
  In total, altough the low score, I felt something pleasant while playing this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
