-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blood Omen 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/bloodomen2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  2, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.2, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 583 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Crystal Dynamics
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Mar 25, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's worth playing to those lonely for another vampire game or wanting a change of pace from all 
 the first-person shooters. 

 While Blood Omen 2 and all three of the previous games in the Legacy of Kain series originated on 
 video game systems, they've surprisingly all found their way to the PC. This fourth installment 
 actually found its way to the PC just days after it was released for the PlayStation 2 and the 
 Xbox. It's essentially the same exact game on all three platforms, though the PC version is technically 
 the best of them. Blood Omen 2 is about Kain, an arrogant nobleman-turned-vampire who first appeared 
 in the 1996 PlayStation game Blood Omen: Legacy of Kain. Its spin-off sequel was Legacy of Kain: 
 Soul Reaver, a great game that introduced a new main character and made Kain the villain. Last 
 year's Soul Reaver 2 was also memorable, even though it still didn't tie up the story's loose ends; 
 the new Blood Omen 2, on the other hand, returns to the 1996 game's storyline and takes place before 
 Soul Reaver.           Kain has no qualms about terrorizing the local populace.    

  That's pretty confusing, but Blood Omen 2 isn't. No previous experience with the series is required 
 to play this third-person action adventure game, though the squeamish should not apply -- true to 
 its name, Blood Omen 2 is bloody. Soul Reaver fans will find a familiar experience in Blood Omen 
 2, even if the new game lacks the innovation and the surprising drama that made the Soul Reaver 
 series great. There's still a lot to like about Blood Omen 2, but, much like the original, its 
 fiendish main character is the best thing about it.   

  Gaunt, pale-skinned Kain is the main character of Blood Omen 2, but he's not the hero, and "antihero" 
 isn't the right way to describe him either. Kain is not heroic in the least -- he's one of the only 
 main characters in gaming who comes across as purely evil: He is not only a vampire but also a 
 savage killer. Yet he still represents the moral center of Blood Omen 2-- unlike his foes, Kain 
 is at least sincere and never minces his words, and in doing so, he remains a very intriguing protagonist. 
 He is brought to life by the voice of Simon Templeman, who has portrayed him in all four Legacy 
 of Kain games. Here, Templeman hams it up as good as ever, delivering Kain's lines in perfectly 
 sinister fashion. With a couple of exceptions, the rest of the game's voice actors don't stand 
 out as much, and the dialogue in Blood Omen 2-- which is as long-winded as the series has ever been -- generally 
 isn't quite as engaging as that of the Soul Reaver games. The plot itself isn't particularly inspired 
 either. Kain awakens hundreds of years after the events of the first Blood Omen, in a world occupied 
 by both magic and technology. He reluctantly joins a vampire resistance to restore rule to the 
 vampires. The grim, shadowy world of Blood Omen 2 is very similar in style to the grim, shadowy 
 pseudomedieval setting of the Thief games. Like in those games, you'll often happen on pairs of 
 characters bantering nonchalantly, unaware of your presence or of your nature.   

  The gameplay itself is reminiscent of Soul Reaver, only stripped of Soul Reaver's more-original 
 mechanics, but Blood Omen 2 does have a few of its own. Unlike Soul Reaver 2, which emphasized 
 puzzle-solving over action elements, Blood Omen 2 is primarily an action game. As Kain, you'll 
 have to slaughter countless human and inhuman foes with either your claws or a number of different 
 melee weapons. Combat is pretty simple and easy to control -- you use a gamepad or the familiar keyboard/mouse 
 combination used for most PC action games. At the touch of a button, you turn to face the nearest 
 foe, at which point you can either attack or block. There's an optional blocking mode that forces 
 you to properly time your deflections of enemy attacks, though you can also set it so that you 
 can press and hold the block button to repel just about anything the enemy throws at you. You'll 
 just have to look out for the occasional slow but unblockable attack, and since most enemies follow 
 simple patterns, soon enough you'll learn to exploit them.           In mist form, Kain can silently 
 assassinate his enemies.    

  Aside from hacking at them, Kain can grab his foes, hoisting them up off the ground by their necks. 
 Depending on which weapon he's carrying at the time, Kain can then perform all kinds of wicked 
 acts on the struggling enemy. When he kills a foe, Kain can suck his or her blood, drawing it out 
 of open wounds telekinetically. This restores Kain's health, and it gives him experience points 
 that can increase his maximum health -- so basically, you have to suck the blood out of every foe 
 you kill. Tougher foes later on have lots of blood, so by the end of the game, Kain will have sucked 
 untold thousands of gallons of the stuff. The blood-sucking effect is well done, but you'll have 
 long since grown tired of it by the end of the game.   

  You'll often fight more than one foe at a time, and you'll notice then that the enemy behavior 
 in Blood Omen 2 is a lot like what you'd find in a bad '70s kung fu movie -- enemies attack one at 
 a time and do nothing to help their allies whom you're pounding to death. Collision detection in 
 Blood Omen 2 is terrible -- Kain gladly attacks his foes while they're down, but only if they're 
 at death's door. For some reason, you can't pursue your attack against a relatively healthy opponent 
 whom you've managed to knock down. On many occasions, you'll see your attacks blatantly pass right 
 through your foes, an effect that's most disappointing when your enemies somehow manage to crouch 
 to avoid a vertical sword slash. What's also inexplicable is that while you can throw foes off 
 ledges to their deaths, you can't just knock them off. Beyond that, Kain will have to fight a number 
 of powerful renegade vampires during the course of Blood Omen 2, in multistaged boss battles reminiscent 
 of those in Metal Gear Solid, only not as exciting. There's usually some trick you'll need to figure 
 out to defeat these foes, and the fight becomes trivial once you figure out what to do. The minimal 
 use of music during most of these sequences detracts from what could have been some of the game's 
 more intense action scenes.    

 Whenever he slays one these boss characters, Kain -- like Raziel in Soul Reaver -- gains a unique new 
 power. You use several of Kain's "dark gifts" only in combat to deliver more damage than you normally 
 could. Kain also starts with the ability to blend in with the low-hanging mist you'll find in most 
 of the game's 11 large levels. In mist form, Kain is practically undetectable. He can sneak behind 
 all but the most alert foes to deliver a fatal attack (some of which, depending on your weapon, 
 are really brutal) . One of Kain's other powerful abilities lets him leap extremely long distances, 
 either to get to out-of-reach areas or to deliver a crushing blow to someone on the receiving end. 
 Later, Kain can also charm weak-minded characters, an ability that the designers exploit in a few 
 obvious situations. For instance, you might mind-control some villager standing around behind a 
 locked gate to get him to open it for you. Kain also gains a telepathic ability that's used mostly 
 just to push buttons from far away. The mist form and the jumping make for some nice moments, but 
 none of Kain's abilities are as interesting as Raziel's ability to shift between two planes of 
 existence.           No neck-biting here -- Kain can suck blood from a meter away.    

  Similarly, the puzzles found in Blood Omen 2 generally aren't as good as those in last year's Soul 
 Reaver 2, and they aren't that good on their own terms either. Blood Omen 2 includes some obscenely 
 large number of switches, wheels, and levers that need to be thrown, cranked, or pulled before 
 you can finish the game. Though a few of the puzzles are all right, most of them are really simple 
 and just there to impede your progress. The difference between a good puzzle and a bad one is that 
 a good puzzle is logical, while a bad puzzle entails seeing a bunch of pulleys and levers. You 
 know there's a puzzle that needs solving only because it's right there in front of you and because 
 there's no exit. The presence of the puzzle is obvious, but you figure out the solution only once 
 it happens. At any rate, at least none of Blood Omen 2's puzzles are particularly difficult. By 
 far, the most frustrating thing about the game is that you can't skip any of the cutscenes, a problem 
 that rears its head when you inevitably are forced to reattempt some sequences. You can save at 
 any time in Blood Omen 2, though when you load that game, you'll start off at the last checkpoint 
 you crossed. This can be frustrating at times, though most checkpoints are near enough to each 
 other that it's not too big a deal.   

  The save system is about the only aspect of Blood Omen 2 that betrays its origin as a console game. 
 From a technical standpoint, Blood Omen 2 is actually the best port of a console game to the PC 
 to date. There's a clean mouse-driven menu system; there's the aforementioned option to use either 
 the gamepad or mouse/keyboard controls; and there are enough graphical options to push your PC 
 to its limits. The game hogs up a lot of disk space, but it's a reasonable price to pay for its 
 virtually nonexistent loading times. Blood Omen 2 looks OK on the PlayStation 2, a lot sharper 
 on the Xbox, and better still for the PC. On a midrange or high-end system with a good video card, 
 you'll get consistently smooth frame rates even when you run the game at high resolutions with 
 the antialiasing feature enabled. Despite the fact that some of the textures appear blurry, you'll 
 more than likely be pleased with the way Blood Omen 2 looks.   

  Overall, the art design perhaps isn't as inspired as that of the Soul Reaver games, though it's 
 still well done. The game's bleak, dark environments are detailed and interesting to look at -- you'll 
 see scurrying rats, bugs buzzing around street lamps sources, and some effective use of ambient 
 lighting. Many of the enemy characters you'll face -- thugs and warriors and such -- are pretty standard, 
 but you'll appreciate the detail in their facial expressions. You can see them wince when you hit 
 them, and all characters' lips are synched properly with their speech. Kain himself looks great 
 and even wears a few different outfits over the course of the game, some of which resemble those 
 of the original Blood Omen. There are some other references thrown in, both in the story and in 
 the details -- for example, you'll find prisoners shackled up, begging for their lives just like 
 in Blood Omen, as well as hear Kain laughing viciously, just like in Blood Omen, as he slays these 
 helpless humans.           The story is the best part of Blood Omen 2.    

  Overall, Blood Omen 2 sounds great because of Simon Templeman, but the rest of the audio isn't 
 remarkable. Enemy soldiers make the same grunts over and over, though the sounds of guzzling blood 
 and of Kain's light footsteps are convincing. The music in Blood Omen 2 is mostly ambient, and 
 the game could have used a more noticeable score, given that its other sound effects are sparse. 
 Later in the game, an effective, percussion-heavy battle theme starts up when you raise your claws 
 for the attack. There should have been more like it.   

  Blood Omen 2 is completely linear and will take you 15 to 20 hours to finish. Once you've reached 
 the end, there's no real reason to revisit the game, since none of the sequences in it are particularly 
 memorable and all of the gameplay mechanics are used repeatedly throughout. Considering that fact, 
 and considering that neither the combat nor the puzzle elements are completely satisfying, Blood 
 Omen 2 can't be recommended to everybody. It isn't quite as great as fans of the series would like, 
 but it still should be given a shot. It's also worth playing to those lonely for another vampire 
 game or wanting a change of pace from all the first-person shooters. All these players should find 
 that the story has at least a couple of fine twists, and Kain is as memorable of a main character 
 as they come.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ElCatto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  As it said in the classification the game is highly addictive I've passed it three times already 
 since it was out.
  The gameplay and combat system is great makes you fear powerful and like man i can kill anybody.
 
  Graphics are great for its time and the soundtrack too.
  The storyline is amazing and it goes like Kain the main character the one you play with was taking 
 over Nosgoth and finally arrives at the Sarafan Keep. Sarafan (a group of humans sworn to rid Nosgoth 
 of vampires) . The evil guy the Sarafan Lord then battles Kain in the Sarafan Keep and Kain looses 
 the duel that you discover later in the game that he had a magical stone and that Kain's sword 
 was unable to harm him. Than Kain awakes centuries later to restore his former glory, kill the 
 Sarafan Lord and rule Nosgoth only to discover that the Sarafan Lord is not human but alien that 
 came through a portal from some sort of hell plain of existence.
  Immersive and highly addictive this game is sorted in one of the best vampire games ever.
  Even 
 if years passed from its release i still recommend you try it if you didn't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RomanianVampire
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  The Blood Omen 2 is a great game nice story and game-play 
  but the most impressive is the main character Kain, in this game he is even more impulsive, arrogant 
 and bloodthirsty now you need all the blood you can get in order to become stronger so evryone 
 who plays the game will have a bloody impulse to kill evrything, the gameplay is a little slow 
 and the combat menu is a little poor too but once you start playing you will get used to the combat 
 
  menu. The places are great and well created you get to see the city of Meridian inside-out with 
 all his aspects form the lower parts of town to the Upper quoter and the Sarafan Keep, the main 
 enemys in the game are the Sarafan, a order who hunts down vampires the order is lead by the Sarafan 
 Lord he is a creature from a different world part of an ancient race who was once bannished by 
 the vampires and now they want revenge, you will meet some of them in the game and the ultimate 
 enemys are the Traitor Vampires and the Sarafan Lord at the end, form each vampire you gain a special 
 ability wich allows you to control people's minds or to jump very far or to fight very fast.
  In conclusion I can say that despite it's slow game-play and combat menu Blood Omen 2 is a great 
 game with a nice story and it's worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rares2oo6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I would give it a 10 because i had only 1 crash but i will give it a 9.5 cause u play only 1 min 
 with the soul reaver!
  
  So after all the hard work in defeating all the other vampires that betrayed u, u only get 1 minute 
 with the soul reaver or less, that depends on how u defeat the saraphan lord at the very end! That 
 is the only thing i guess it can be improved. Nevertheless if u want to spend some time i advise 
 u play this and this game works even on 32MB Video Card :o
  
  I would give it a 10 because i had only 1 crash but i will give it a 9.5 cause u play only 1 min 
 with the soul reaver!
  
  So after all the hard work in defeating all the other vampires that betrayed u, u only get 1 minute 
 with the soul reaver or less, that depends on how u defeat the saraphan lord at the very end! That 
 is the only thing i guess it can be improved. Nevertheless if u want to spend some time i advise 
 u play this and this game works even on 32MB Video Card :o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pitchblack3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 1:18 am PT
Review:  In Blood Omen 2, you play as Kain, the mentor and rival of Raziel from the Soul Reaver series. 
 The 2 games don't share any connection in this title as far as I know it.
  Kain was once a mighty vampire leading an army of fellow vampires against the Sarafan Lord and 
 his baldy minions. After being defeated, Kain lost all his powers, allies, and his weapon, the 
 Soul Reaver. 
  You start of using just your claws as weapon. Then you can take wield weapons like clubs, short 
 swords and large axes. One bad thing about weapons is that you cannot do much about it but attack 
 and defend. You can't throw, drop, or make cool combo hits like in the Raziel does in the Soul 
 Reaver games. 
  Feast yourself with the blood of you enemies like local thugs, female thieves and at the later 
 part of the game, giant arachnids and grim reaper look alike enemies OR innocent men and women begging 
 for your lordly mercy IF you would spare them or not. The ideal choice is obviously the 2nd one 
 because your health saps down slowly without a yummy blood juice but the choice is still yours 
 to decide :) You can use your vampire abilities like burning them to toast instantly, using the 
 power of the mist to make yourself invisible and do a 1-hit deadly move on them. Be creative and 
 make your own style.
  The level design is poorly done though. Certain stages look alike, looking gloomy and dark. Some 
 you need to use you wit in order to surpass. Others, you need finger-swiftness and timing if you 
 don't want to drown!!
  Boss fights are the best. First you should find out their weaknesses of course, like any boss fight 
 in most games. While doing so, you should use your agility to dodge their deadly moves and the 
 environment to your own advantage. The reason why this is the best part, is probably because of 
 the right fight timing and tension-rising moments plus the evil background music. By defeating 
 bosses, you gain their skill which they use to pacify you to hell while fighting them!! 
  All in all, a good act. adv. game with a nice plot filled with betrayal, power and vengeance. So 
 play it and relish your thirst for blood and revenge!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rogue_Kain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  The first thing i can say is WOW! This game is amazing. It's a little different than the others 
 in the series like the feeling you get when you play it, the surroundings, the characters and especially 
 the game-play. First you start as young Kain after his 200 or 400 years of sleep (can't remember 
 exactly how many were there) and as the game goes on you pretty much figure everything out (the 
 game-play i mean) . Kain gets all these great outfits in different levels of the game and has all 
 these special abilities which depend on your rage-bar (the rage-bar grows as you parry attacks) . 
 The music is great. It gives that mysterious atmosphere and the fact that its always dark is even 
 better. The game gets pretty realistic when your weapons start to shatter after blocking too much 
 not like in Soul Reaver 2 where you could fight with a weapon all day (not that you would) . There 
 is a variety of enemies in the game, depending on the location.
  Now like in all games there is that "fall of the cliff / fall in the lava / fall in the void around 
 the whatever you're standing on" thing, but here water is deadly. if you walk in a puddle your 
 feet start burning damaging you but if you fall in lets say the ocean or certain parts of a level 
 where there are basins filled with water you die instantly. Nothing you can do, bye bye, you are 
 dead. So watch out for that water and better not try cool tricks around it or anything 'cause i 
 remember doing so out of boredom and ending up dead and annoyed.
  The bad part of it is that you don't interact much with people or other main characters. You are 
 pretty much a solo guy. The lack of an inventory is kinda bad too. It would have been great to 
 use different gadgets like traps or amulets, rings all that kinda stuff, but its great the way 
 it is ... like they say "You can't have them all". 
  So the conclusion is that Legacy of Kain : Blood Omen 2 is a beautiful game with great surroundings, 
 a great main character and lots of cool levels. The feeling that it gives the player is unique 
 and after you finished it you get kind of sad because you want more and more of it.
  Get the game! It's worth it! Every penny!
  P. S. Watch out for that water (i wonder how do those 
 vampires stay as clean as they are... ow well) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emmekappa88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  if you like tomb raider and a bit of horror this is the game that you must play...
  the difficult is easy but there is few save games (you can save only if you go in a save point) 
 and it is difficult only final boss...
  you can also play this game if you haven't play series of legacy of kain cause this game have a 
 own story.
  it is funny also cause during the game you are a vampire and you need blood (if you don't take 
 blood the life bar goes down) and so you have to suck blood from the people in the city or from 
 the enemies
  
  good game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malavos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Kain is the most powerfull vampire you will ever seen in a game. (and he rocks and pwnsome too 
 XD) But, by any mean. All games i play with vampires don&acute; t have the style and the nuts to 
 show the game a new style, to make it different. I see another games with great storys, weapons, 
 systens. But you see, anyway, nothing new. I&acute; m gonna say some things about this game.
  
  Well, you play with a nice vampire lord wich use various weapons (and later a VERY nice one. 
 =P) His name is Kain (duh) , he can plane, jump like the hell, hide with the mist, use his fury 
 to punish humans hard ( o yea O_o)
  wich is very funny. You got some nice horror, adventures, actions, pluzzes, and some nice funny 
 things too uhuiohi xD
  
  well, can i go to the grades?
  
  Graphics: 9,8: well, the graphics are not PERFECT. For sure, but they make you have lots of fun. 
 It&acute; s so nice to watch the battles at the way in this game.
  
  Fun: 10. WELL , I said manly times before- It&acute; s really funny XD
  
  Sounds : 8,6 - For 
 vampire sounds, it&acute; s not so perfect. They could get this better.
  
  Musics: 10. Perfects. Gothic?
  
  Interaction: 10. Well. Hide in the mist. Jump though building. 
 Well. I call this a bleeder . XD
  Overral: i can&acute; t give to it a 9.8, but i&acute; m gonna for a 9,5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShoopLor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  The Story lives!
  
  Although being defeated by the Saraphan Lord, Kain is resurrected and he plans to get back all 
 that was once his! On the way to his old throne lie many dangers, old enemies and old friends. 
 But one weapon still is and will be the key to domination... The Soul Reaver.... being now at the 
 hands of the Saraphan Lord, your task is to defeat the shatered empire that he has created and 
 end his days. But secrets surround the streets and enemies you encounter. Soon you realize that 
 the world you know... will never be the same...
  
  So get ready... it's almost night...
  
  
  Blood Omen 2 puts the player in the role of a Vampire known from the famous Soul Reaver 
 game. In this game you see this Vampire in his youth and you learn more about his past. After your 
 resurrection you are weak and your powers have all but remained in your sleep. This is a great 
 experience for the player because he acquires new powers through the game and the prosperity of 
 Kain is very visible making you able to do many new things like control minds, make enormous jumps 
 and much more... These features make the game play even more complex and interesting. Apart from 
 this abilities you get on the way, lets not forget the great combat that this game offers. The 
 controls can get a bit messy but as you play you get used to them and you become a great fighter. This 
 is really necessary for the player because of the difficult bosses you fight as you play. But the 
 harder, the better I say! After resting your fingers after a difficult boss the enemies become 
 as easy as pie and you become pleased watching yourself killing those unexperienced fencers with 
 a few deadly blows. All this wrapped in beautifully graphics! What more do you need???
  OH YOU DO NEED MORE?! Read on- ha ha ha
  
  Besides all these interesting features, this game 
 doesn't represent a hack and slash game. Although the puzzles could be easy still there are many 
 moments where you stop and think, so like Soul Reaver , I would also put this game in the action 
 adventure type. The story is great and it's compatible with all kinds of people FANS or NONFANS 
 who just bought the game because of the nice cover- ha ha ha...
  
  Still I would recommend this game as a must play and a must have in your home collection. It will 
 never grow old and you could always enjoy it ...
  
  So start running in the endless nights... Everything was yours, it can be once again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ananasz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 23, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  Hello!
  Do you love beating random people and animals 'till death, then using your super suck power to 
 suck the blood right out of your victim WITHOUT moving a muscle?
  This is your game! Hoozah!
  
  No really, I like this game, the story is decent, and the battles 
 are very challenging. The scenery really puts in the right mood and Kain doesn't even have the 
 same clothes on the whole game through.
  The ending was pretty surprizing though; like, I didn't know Kain would betray that whole bunch, 
 and, that Kain actually liked that woman vampire.
  
  Even though I wasn't happy with the fact that Kain used those pretty long fangs of his to suck 
 out his victims, it is a very good game, plus addictive as hell.
  
  A must buy, especially for vampire lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  This contines with the first legacy of kain and how his jouney go ons.
  He starts off being dead for nealry thousands of years, until one day, is heart beats again.
 
  
  He awakens in a world he dosnt reconise, All his armies slain and his brethren nealry extinct, 
 kain is among the last of his kind to walk the planet.
  Driven by vengeance, Kian shall unleash a vicious wrath to uncover the plot that threatens the 
 land he seeks to conquer.
  
  Sucking more blood and jumping from rooftops andfinding your self in the reams of unknown land.
 
  
  Until long, you begin to remember certain things and realises your friends have changed sides.
 
  They were once working for you, they believed you were dead and swapped sides, so they dont die 
 them selves, and now you have to face them in battles and take there skills from them after you 
 have killed them.
  
  Fighting again with the enemy that once killed you, now awaits you at the end of the game.
  
 
  Good luck. My blood thisty friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20648505842410216584325484843111-sonnycX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2005 12:40 am PT
Review:  I first played LOK: Soul Reaver 1,2 and 3 so I was a little confused about the history of Kain.............. well 
 Blood Omen 2 cleared that up.
  
  Although the Soul Reaver series had a more pleasant look, with better graphics I liked this game 
 not only for the game-play but mostly for the story.
  It was very easy to control Kain but the fights with..... well..... everyone, were starting to get 
 boring after the first 2-3 hours of game-play.
  The best thing about Kain is that he is a straight forward bad guy. 
  The graphics are not that 
 good but it didn't bother me much. For the sound i give a full 10 mostly because the voice of Simon 
 Templeman. The other voice acting didn't impress me at all.
  
  Greg Kasavin said in the full review that: "It's worth playing to those lonely for another vampire 
 game or wanting a change of pace from all the first-person shooter"............... he was right.
 
  The game was fun to play but I wouldn't want to play it ever again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex1029
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 5, 2005 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Most people would say that this game is so-so. I think it is essential in the Legacy of Kain series. 
 Other than the original Blood Omen that started the classic series, this is the first game that 
 you really get to play as Kain, even though it is in his younger years. It helps fill in some gaps 
 on how Kain came to be. It helps to explain the whole line in Soul Reaver 2 in the end where Kain 
 says "Oh my God, the Hylden." Had no idea wtf he was talking about before this game. In my opinion, 
 awesome game. Sweet special attacks, like myst where you can walk up behind some one and cut their 
 head off or let their guts spill out on the floor depending on the weapon. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
