-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blood Omen: Legacy of Kain
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/bloodomenlegacyofkain/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 19, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 8.2, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 400 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Silicon Knights
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Aug 31, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A wicked good time for those willing to accept a few technical problems. 

 Prepare for a deliciously dark tale of violence and vengeance, brought to life by first-rate voice 
 acting and smooth, stylish visuals. Blood Omen: Legacy of Kain, the PC port of Crystal Dynamics' 
 popular 1996 Sony PlayStation title, features a strikingly morbid and charismatic protagonist: 
 the vampire Kain, an arrogant nobleman granted undead power. He commands a seemingly undying hatred 
 for all living creatures, hopelessly envious of their mortality - and he laughs bitterly as he 
 slaughters them all. Kain is the perfect antihero, and his story is unique, involving, and epic 
 in proportion. But the game itself doesn't quite keep up.  

 Blood Omen is derived from a console game, and it feels like one. With few exceptions, it plays 
 like your typical Legend of Zelda-style action RPG, light on character interaction and heavy on 
 exploration, dungeon crawling, and combat. You witness the action from a bird's-eye view, highlighted 
 by dozens of smoothly animated, 3D-rendered characters and gorgeous colored lighting. Steering 
 Kain about the corrupt, cruel world of Nosgoth is simple enough by means of keyboard or gamepad. 
 He can deftly wield his weapon of choice, invoke a spell or a magic item, and drain a wounded enemy 
 of his lifeblood all at the touch of a button. Control is somewhat sluggish and hit detection can 
 be irritatingly off the mark, but in due time you'll feel comfortable enough with how Kain operates. 

 Soon enough, the vampire will acquire several metamorphosing spells that allow him to assume the 
 shape of a werewolf, a colony of bats, a mist cloud, or even an inconspicuous peasant. Kain must 
 know when to assume these forms in order to succeed in his quest to leave his immortal coil. For 
 instance, as a wolf Kain is able to leap across chasms, while when disguised he can communicate 
 with villagers and gather valuable clues. The weapons and armor in his arsenal are each mighty, 
 but each in turn has its cursed disadvantages. For example, Kain's flame sword is a peerless melee 
 weapon, but it roasts the opponent to a crisp thereby robbing the vampire of his victim's much-needed 
 blood. Kain's health dwindles slowly but surely, forcing him to feed on a regular basis by magically 
 drawing blood from mortal wounds straight to his lips from a good ten paces or so.  

 Unless you have a top-of-the-line machine, chances are you won't be able to enjoy the visuals at 
 an optimal speed without resorting to the low-resolution, interlaced graphics mode. The colored 
 lighting in particular, invaluable for revealing secret passages and dungeon switches, takes its 
 toll on system resources. Nevertheless, Blood Omen looks melancholy and attractive enough even 
 at the lowest resolution. Expert voice acting is truly the highlight of the game. Kain, portrayed 
 by unknown talent Simon Templeman, remarks upon his surroundings in full speech, not content merely 
 to describe but to offer a little biting cynicism on the side. His co-stars are just as memorably 
 over-the-top. Meanwhile, a haunting soundtrack adds the perfect touch of ambiance. Unfortunately, 
 the sounds of battle (from sword slashes to yelps of injury) are not up to par and quickly become 
 repetitive and even annoying.  

 Blood Omen is not your typical computer role-playing game. The most glaring PlayStation holdover 
 forces you to save progress at sparsely located terminals, a feature sure to frustrate those accustomed 
 to the standard save-anywhere RPG mentality. Blood Omen demands your curiosity and puzzle-solving 
 skills, but it will also pit you in some tough fights where you'll need to use a little manual 
 dexterity to survive. While Kain's foes are challenging, they follow obvious attack and movement 
 patterns which makes dealing with them a chore rather than a test. And don't plan on making any 
 friends during your stay in Nosgoth - Kain would much sooner slit a throat than make idle discourse. 
 Blood Omen is one sinister game, a wicked good time for those willing to accept a few technical 
 problems, Kain's harsh personality, and the long, treacherous, bloody battle that lies before him. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DRAKOOZ
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  first time i saw this game in a magazine, i was interested in the name, but never thought of buying 
 it. then over and over i read reviews about a good game, a great story which made me think of buying 
 it and i did
  first, i was disappointed about the 2D graphics, it looked very old what made me uninstall it. than 
 later i reinstalled and tried to pass the first level, then the second, then i found my self not 
 able to leave it:)
  from the story to the new skills i learned, from the new forms i can turn to, everything looked amazing.
 
  later i start to notice how the story was, and how it was like you are watching a movie, a real 
 scary movie but with a deep story.
  i remember when i reach a tower overlooking all the town and you can look through the eye-shape 
 window.. it was like a real movie scene.
  and when it was over, i felt like... i want more i need more even if it will be another 2D game... but 
 i need more cause you can't just finish a legacy in one game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JokerStelios
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Kain is the most amazing characters 
  i've ever see in this immerse terrifying World that 
  called Nosgoth :D
  
  Many plotts, many lies, nonstopping murders 
  and a simple paladin stood 
 between all that 
  not knowing his fate ... And he just selected 
  by a stronger force to do his bitting :D
  
 THERE IS A MAGICAL OPERATION OF MAXIMUM
  IMPORTANCE 
 THE INITIATION IF A NEW AEON 
  WHEN IT BECOMES NESSECERY TO ALTER A 
  WORLD THE WHOLE PLANET MUST BE BATHED
  IN BLOOD "
  
  Great story, many character but most 
 of them evil and 
  insidious that complete the whole picture of this 
  dark game, that the master become the puppets and 
  the puppets take their role back :D
  
 
  Joker out :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dvader0086
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 14, 2007 2:33 am PT
Review:  As I stated before It is similar to the Legend of Zelda because the gameplay is almost the same... 
 You control a Vampire named Kain in his search to rid himself of his vampiric curse... The movies 
 are of good quality and so is the voice acting... I highly recommend this piece to any who want 
 to have a good RPG experience... Activison is a good company so this is what you can expect form 
 them... It's just one of those games that's highly addictive, and you can't stop playing it till 
 it's done... But another thing is different from the Legend of Zelda this is in this game only... 
 You can morph into thing and travel from place to place using your abilities... Although you need 
 an older computer to play, its not that difficult to find one that is older... In closing this 
 is one of the best games I've played in a long time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punk91
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 12, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  Blood Omen: Legacy of Kain is a fun game, until it lasts. It's one of those games, that get you 
 really immersed into the world of the game and it is a original and addictive action-adventure.
 
  
  You play as Kain, once a noblemand, but then viciously murdered and then turned into a vampire. 
 After that, you wake up in your tomb, bent on only one thing: revenge your murder. The story in 
 the game is not of course a typical revenge plot. When you eventually do kill your murderers, a 
 mystical necromancer appears at the Pillars of Nosgoth, and asks for your help to kill creatures, 
 that are connected to the Pillars themselves. Of course the story is not that boring, the story 
 in the game is truly interesting and original, it will take to distant lands and even back in time. 
 The story in the game is perhaps the strongest one of all.
  
  The gameplay in Legacy of Kain is probably the weakest, although it has some nice hack and slash 
 combat in it, it boils down as a very repedetive action. Although you start with a basic sword 
 and armor, you get new weapons in the game and of course spells. Weapons and armor will change 
 and they will have different and unique effects on how to demolish your opponents. For example, 
 a mace that you will get later on in the game can destroy some types of rocks and nock your enemies 
 unconsious for a few seconds. The effective flesh armor will have the ability to drain your opponents 
 health, giving some for you when you hit them. That comes very handy when you will have dozens 
 of enemies to fight. Unfortunately it isn't enough to change the gameplay to some new and exciting 
 directions.
  
  Kain is a very powerful character and he is very well animated, he moves with great realisim. The 
 enemies are very well animated too, but there are some graphical glitches too, regretably. The 
 boss fights are pretty much the highlight of the game and they are very convincing and some of 
 them are even pretty scary looking. That gives the game a really great feel.
  
  First time you hear Kain manicaly laugh, when he cuts open one of his enemies, you'll know that 
 he is purely evil. Guess he turned that way when he was bitten by a vampire, huh. One of the best 
 things about the game is sound. The soundtrack is very suitable to the current theme and some sad 
 melodies are really great. Although the voiceacting is superb, it feels a bit forced through, but 
 that is forgiveable.
  
  Overall, Blood Omen: Legacy of Kain is a fantastic game, that shouldn't be missed. The fact that 
 it is possible to get it free, is even more tempting. Although the game has a few shortcomings, 
 it's still a good thing to go over again and get more of the hidden secrets that there is. Oh, 
 and did I mentione the game keeps track of how many people you kill or suck blood out from? It 
 is a really neat touch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriniRicanJunie
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 19, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  ok if you first played the game you'll think its weird looking it true but it has some cool plot 
 twist in it it may leave you in a dase like me knowing not where to go but thats why we have gamefaqs. com 
 but the graphics on this game is ok its not the best but its ok for the ps1 it has a good story 
 line and thats what makes a game and this was the first one they started the whole series off of 
 which is brilliant the blood and spells were cool if you like slashing and blowing crap up and 
 then sucking the **** ou of people blood but the CG could been better but its all good the ability 
 change what you are is cool like a wolf but overall this is a interesting game and a must own. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrperson1
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 15, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  first glance at the game, i found myself in disbelief anyone would play a game of this caliber. 
 with blood sucking and lots of what i preceived being too much gore. then i got to playing the 
 game. the story really was good and slowly i found myself no longer concerned about the game being 
 taboo but more of a work of art.
  
  i found myself captured by both the story line and depth of the game. Legacy of kain really set 
 a new standard for me in gaming. between the way the game handled and the unique perespective.
 
  
  i never really got into the sequels but this defintely has a spot for me.
  
  i dont own the psone version anymore but picked up the window version not too long ago.
  
  
 still amazed by the cut scenes and the relative replayability.
  
  i still find myself reminsing the orginal shock and overcoming it.
  
  i would not recommend 
 this to anyone younger than 16 or those who are not open minded. however if your looking for something 
 unique and different this is the game to get into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ketaros
Rating: 7
Date: May 24, 2006 2:00 am PT
Review:  A distant relative of the modern series, Blood Omen takes place in the land of Nemesis. You play 
 the main character of Kain. When the game starts, youre in a tavern asking to be served by the 
 bartender. The bartender refuses, so you decide to leave this inhospitable place. Once outside, 
 you are overwhelmed by soldiers and murdered. However, this is not the end of your story... 
  
  When you awake, youre in an eerie crypt. But the location isnt the only thing thats changed. 
 You are now a vampire, and you possess an intimidating appearance thats sure to keep strangers 
 at a safe distance. 
  
  This is where your quest begins. You look around, wondering how and why youre in this place and 
 why you are still alive  to a degree  as the ghastly realization begins to sink in that youve 
 joined the ranks of the undead. After some moments of gory action, you discover a portal that leads 
 to a strange series of pillars. These structures are named The Pillars of Nosgoth. A ghostly figure 
 appears (Ariel) and informs you that each pillar represents a person. Each pillars physical state 
 represents the linked persons mental state. As each person drifts into dementia, so also does 
 the corresponding pillar decay and crumble. 
  
  In order to break the curse keeping you in this wretched state between life and death, you must 
 restore the pillars to their original condition. You do this by killing everyone linked to the 
 pillars and returning their artifact. It is this artifact that links them to the pillar. There 
 are eight characters you must go after, and the first is the mentalist Nupraptor. 
  
  In Blood Omen you have the opportunity to use spells (most commonly found in caverns) . These range 
 from offensive spells that cause your enemy to implode, to more harmless and practical spells that 
 light up a room or transport you back to your crypt. There are also transformation spells that 
 can morph you into a wolf or a bat, for example. So what does a wolf have to do with a vampire? 
 I really dont know, but the spell is very important as it gives you the ability to jump over obstacles. 
 (Kain, unfortunately, cant jump) . You can even transform into a human being  very useful when 
 you dont want to attract attention. To cast spells, you need mana. Mana is replenished by acquiring 
 little blue balls. These have no name, but they do the job of replenishing Kains energy. 
  
  The game does have some unusual features. For instance, rain or water hurts the vampire. Maybe 
 it rains holy water, who knows? The combat mode is pretty buggy. Even if you play often, you will 
 find it difficult to hit an enemy. This is because you can only thrust your sword in four directions: 
 front, back, left and right. You can use the numpad keys for more control, but I found this hard 
 and decided to stick to the normal arrow keys. Another weird fact is that any commoner can hit 
 AND hurt you. (So it is a myth that vampires are invulnerable to physical hits) . But these changes 
 were needed, as the game wouldnt have made sense if your character was invincible. 
  
  This game is not easy. In fact, its not easy at all! The enemies are strong, even though they 
 have a hard time hitting you. (The same combat bug applies to them) . If you are hurt, you can either 
 use a spell or feast upon the blood of the prisoners you'll come across in almost every cavern. 
 The feeding method has also changed here, and vampires dont bite the neck; they use a handy stick 
 to drain the blood from their victims. Further in the game, youll come across shrines that heal 
 and even bestow blessings upon you  imagine that! The difficulty of the game derives from the 
 fact that monsters respawn when you resurface from a cave, for example. Its basically the same 
 method that Diablo uses, but instead of respawning after you save, the monsters respawn every time 
 you enter a house, a cavern, etc. 
  
  The game is full of secrets that can be discovered by turning on hidden switches. There are also 
 mini puzzles that must be solved before you can advance. Unfortunately, theres no pattern to follow; 
 you just have to do it the classical way - through trial and error. 
  
  Another thing I find annoying, other than the combat, is the save mode. You can't hit Esc and save 
 wherever and whenever you want. You must find a shrine that will allow you to save your place in 
 the game. 
  
  Now if this had been the end of the review, I would have given the game a 3. But theres more. 
 The most outstanding feature of the game is the ambience. The music is exceptional and adds a great 
 deal to the gothic atmosphere. The graphics in the caverns are detailed, realistic and have a dark, 
 brooding feel. The powerful atmosphere evoked by the music and graphics really enables you to experience 
 Kains strange, dark world. But the feature that contributes most to the games atmosphere is the 
 dialogue. Every time you come across something new (a new spell or story twist) , the character 
 has something to say. And the language he uses is special. I cant really explain this, but suffice 
 it to say that the dialogue is the best Ive heard in any game Ive played. 
  
  Lets see: anything Ive forgotten? Oh yes, the game tracks your progress, and stores your number 
 of slayings, mutilations, meals, secrets found - and judging by your progress - your rank. 
  
  The Omuletzu Curiosity Bit: The game took over 2 1/2 years to make and features 114 different 
 enemies, five weapon/armor powerups, over 160,000 individual screens and more! 
  
  Game quotes: Things come with the night that no sane man would welcome. 
  ... for in the embrace 
 of the sun I could find no comfort, only malice. 
  I will not be kind to the denizens that lurk here. They shall taste my steel, and I their blood. 
 
  
  If you liked this game, you should also try:
  BloodNet ; DreamWeb
  
  Credits to: Omuletzu
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdemobster
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 27, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  Story, sounds and graphics: 3 things, that are very good in this game; it can be compared to other 
 better RPGs. The story and the event, how did Kain become the vampire is inovative - it is not 
 the old and used example of how did the night come and then, vampire got out of his coffin...
 
  Anyway, the number of enemies is enormous and weapons selection is good (a lot of swords and spells 
 as well as a lot of items) .
  The enemies AI is good, but they are too much on defensive (expect bosses) - sometimes, they don`t 
 represent challenge and are easy killed. The enviroment is also not so "alive". An interesting 
 fact is the incorporation of weather: snow, rain and lava fireballs (from volcano) - all 3 things 
 are bad for a vampire. And of course you will have numerous opprotunities to suck out the blood 
 from your enemies -a welcome addition for this game. Some events will be quite ironical and will 
 sometimes confuse you in the game.
  Graphics are astonishing - colourfulness and effects are some of the best in all RPG type of games. 
 The outside enwiroment is little to much "linear", but is still OK.
  Sounds are just perfect - sounds for over 70 or more enemies was probably not an easy work for 
 producers.
  If you like RPG with vampire theme in the story, get this quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 29, 2005 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Blood Omen Legacy of Kain (the original) was the beginning chapter to the Blood Omen series, it 
 was an incredible single player role-playing game essentially. The graphics were ok for its time, 
 the sound is very good, its always been a srong point of blood omen games that theres strong voice 
 acting. The music is brilliant its still some of the best in game music you will hear, it fits 
 the dark world perfectly. The game play was great, the story was overly complicated at this stage 
 either but still contained mysteries for later games to explain.
  
  The story was that the pillars of nosgoth (that being the worlds name) had 9 guardians assigned 
 to them to keep the world from becoming a living hell, at this stage you dont know who made these 
 pillars or really care, suffice to say the guardians become corrupted and as a result so do the 
 pillars and the world starts to decay although you cant experience this in full until youve played 
 the other games in the series such as Soul Reaver. Your character Kain is a noble man trying to 
 find a inn to rest in but is sent out only to be cut down by many assasins and then your given 
 the choice to seek revenge but become a servant to Mortanius who it ends up being quite evil!
 
  
  Enough of the story for now, it takes you all over Nosgoth, back and through time with fantastic 
 game play which is really fun and memorable, its extremely bloody but youre a vampire what do 
 you expect. You can morph into various forms, take over people and get some pretty damn fine swords 
 as you fulfil your quest for vengeance!
  
  I say its the best still because I proffered the RPG style of game to the more modern tomb raider 
 esque style of playing, its a deeper gaming style for me and the story is becoming increasingly 
 difficult to decipher! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuDaDJ
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 19, 2005 4:30 am PT
Review:  Blood Omen: Legacy of Kain is an action/RPG that combines a rich story with Diablo-like gameplay, 
 resulting in a game that's surprisingly good. You control Kain, a vampire who was once a nobleman, 
 but was murdered and reborn, and is back in the world of the living seeking revenge. Early in the 
 game, you'll come across the main quest of the game, restoring the seven pillars of Nosgoth, the 
 land the game takes place in. Each pillar has a respective Guardian, and the only way to restore 
 each pillar is to kill its Guardian. Your quest to hunt down the Guardians will take you to snow 
 covered mountaintops, through swamps and forests, and even through time.
  
  The game cycles between night and day, and as a vampire, you are weakened during the daytime. At 
 night, you'll be twice as strong, and your enemies will fall much easier. A blood vial indicates 
 your health, and you'll constantly need to replenish your health by sucking the red blood of humans 
 you knock unconscious. You'll have to be careful not to suck the blood of the undead, as it will 
 poison you. Shrines and caves around Nosgoth will provide you with the power-ups and items you'll 
 need to complete the game. As to be expected, Kain can acquire and use weapons, armor, and magic 
 spells. Different weapons have different uses and advantages. The axes are the only weapon that 
 can cut down trees, the spiked mace can destroy certain stone walls in your way, the flame sword 
 gives you a longer range, but you won't be able to suck blood from your fallen enemies, and the 
 Soul Reaver is a two handed sworded, but uses your magic energy with each hit and prevents you 
 from casting spells or using objects. Most impressive is the abundance of spells and special items 
 you'll have your disposal. They're all plenty fun to use, and include mind control, blood gout, 
 which sucks the blood from all nearby beings, repel, and implode. Similar to the blood vial, you 
 also have a magic meter that recharges with time and allows you to cast magic spells.
  
  There are other unique gameplay elemements. One is the ability to change into different forms, 
 such as a werewolf for speedier travel, a bat to fly to places you've already been, and disguise 
 to take the appearance of a human and gain clues by talking to other humans. Also very handy is 
 the ability to bring up an overhead map of the surrounding area. Saves are done at special save 
 points scattered throughout the land.
  
  The graphics are adequate. There's nothing really special about the character sprites, but in some 
 of the dungeons you'll run into beautiful colored lighting. The voice acting is superb, with Kain 
 describing the world he sees, voice dripping with cynacism, and further enhancing the actually 
 interesting in the game.
  
  Only a couple of complaints about this game. One is the horrible hit detection. This problem rears 
 its ugly head in a couple of situations: one, when you attack. You'll have to be facing your target 
 head on, and also be at some distance away for the hit to register. Attacking an enemy that's right 
 on top of you is fruitless. And when you're hit, either by enemy's attack or environmental elements 
 like spikes, Kain will be pushed back a bit. However, if he gets pushed onto something that will 
 register a hit, such as more spikes or another enemy, he'll take the hit without having a chance 
 to retailiate. This can result in some frustrating pinballing before you can break free and get 
 to safety. Second, the default walking speed is much too slow. To get around this, you can use 
 your wolf form to get around a lot faster, but it would have been nice to have a run mode.
  
  All things considered, Blood Omen is an excellent game and should appeal to anyone looking 
 for a simple to play action game with a great story. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
