-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Boiling Point: Road to Hell
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/xenus/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Innovative, ambitious design blends first-person shooter and role-playing game genres.
 Open-ended Grand Theft Auto-style missions offer everything from fairly standard shooter assignments to driving buses for spare cash.
 Huge gameworld consisting of more than 240 square miles of South American village and jungle, putting it on the same scale as Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas and The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind.
 Alignment system lets you side with various factions, opening up different mission strands and providing loads of replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Don't even think about playing this game without the version 11 patch.
 Rough around the edges in a lot of areas.
 No multiplayer mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 28, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.4, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 1,180 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Deep Shadows
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Jun 6, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Boiling Point works off the Grand Theft Auto template to fashion an open-ended hybrid shooter with 
 more diverse missions than the genre has seen in years. 

  Ambitious PC games rarely come without a host of problems. Boiling Point, a fusion of first-person 
 shooter and role-playing game, is no exception to that rule, shipping with so many issues that 
 it's unplayable out of the box. The Deep Shadows-developed game is crazy buggy, with frequent crashes, 
 routine corruption of save files, vanishing non-player characters that makes it impossible to complete 
 quests, and lots of other extreme weirdness, including the ability to destroy a police station 
 with a single crossbow bolt. A recent patch eliminates the save bug and most of the quest and graphical 
 oddities, but at present this game remains proudly unrefined.  

          The jungle scenery is beautiful, but you need one powerful machine to see it at its best. 
     

  So, caveat emptor. Keep in mind that this is for all intents and purposes a beta, even with the 
 patch. You'll experience crashes, watch NPCs open and drink from invisible cans, encounter traffic 
 pileups because the artificial intelligence drives worse than a fleet of little old ladies, and 
 so forth. But with that said, Boiling Point is still an engaging play because there is nothing 
 even remotely like it on the market. Deep Shadows has worked off the Grand Theft Auto template 
 to fashion an open-ended hybrid shooter with more diverse missions and a more interesting setting 
 than the genre has seen in years. While the plot is so derivative that it must power a dozen action 
 movies -- you play as Saul Meyers, a former French Legionnaire investigating the disappearance of 
 his reporter daughter Lisa from a fictional South American nation called Realia -- the design goes 
 beyond ripping off Arnold Schwarzenegger's  Commando  and Crytek's Far Cry. Basically, this is 
 Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas in the jungle, maybe with a dash of The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind 
 tossed in for good measure. Starting from the hub village of Puerto Somba, you take a roundabout 
 path of looking for your girl that involves signing up for jobs doled out by the local bus station, 
 government, mafia, guerrillas, CIA agents, bandits, and indigenous groups and trekking into the 
 jungles in search of adventure and ways to make some cash.  

  Money is the main driving force here, because everybody has his hand out in this stereotypically 
 corrupt banana republic. To get tips about Lisa's disappearance, you need to shell out 1,200 pesos 
 here, 20,000 pesos there, and so on. Accepting these mercenary assignments typically comes at a 
 nonmonetary cost, though, as faction members tend to remember the French commando who just killed 
 a bunch of their buddies. Do thug work for the corrupt police force, and you'll make friends with 
 the government at the expense of your relationship with the guerrillas and the bandits. Reverse 
 your tactics and you'll sacrifice government goodwill to chum up to the communists and the crooks. 

  This means that you can't keep everybody happy. It also means that you probably won't be able to 
 complete all of the available missions in a single run-through of the game, which enhances its 
 replay value. That's a good thing, in part because there is no multiplayer option, but at the same 
 time Boiling Point takes the factionalism too far. Accidentally shoot a civilian, for instance, 
 and you become a walking target. Hunched-over grannies you were recently helping cross the street 
 start tossing grenades, and average citizens suddenly become assassins. Every stroll down the street 
 turns into a scene from  The Wild Bunch . This constant harassment gets annoying in short order 
 and dramatically ups the difficulty of missions, as you can find yourself flanked by Grandma Dynamite 
 and her pistol-packing neighbors when attacking a guerrilla truck or a bandit drug lab.  

  Pitched battles aren't handled very well by the game engine either. Imprecise controls are exasperating 
 at times, with everything feeling a little bit off. Movement and aiming are never quite fluid, 
 although things get better as the game goes on and you improve both the quality of your weapons 
 and Meyers' core stats, which govern his skills with automatic weapons, pistols, and the like. 
 Enemies seem to be able to outrun bullets, so it's difficult to line them up as they zip between 
 attacking in the open and taking cover. Also, even bare-chested thugs can take a good six or seven 
 rounds before going down, so you can waste whole clips on single foes. Ammo is in cheap supply 
 at the local arms dealer and, oddly enough, roadside fruit stands, but managing your shots is still 
 vital, since it's easy to run out of bullets in the middle of firefights with these Speedy Gonzales 
 characters. Equipment also degrades, so you have to keep guns repaired or risk firing duds in the 
 middle of a melee.  

          Although the game structure may feel remarkably GTA-like, most of the action is standard 
 shooter fare with high body counts.     

  Driving controls are another cause for complaint. Although including the ability to tool around 
 in cars, choppers, tanks, and boats adds depth to Saul's South American adventure (though having 
 to fill up with gas is a touch too much reality) , Deep Shadows has done a lousy job with the mechanics. 
 Driving a car, for example, is so touchy that it takes a good half hour of touring around town 
 streets before you can maneuver around a simple corner without sideswiping a streetlight, let alone 
 navigating the twisty dirt roads in the countryside. Better vehicles with improved handling are 
 available as you progress through the game, although the controls are never more than tolerable. 
 For what it's worth, the NPC drivers seem to have the same problem, judging by the number of times 
 you come across them stuck on posts and walls.     

  There are other unwieldy design quirks. Managing inventory is far too finicky, thanks to a system 
 that forces you to confirm every transfer of equipment. You even have to OK the individual number 
 of bullets being moved. This makes it impossible to loot corpses for ammo in a firefight, as the 
 extra steps usually occupy just enough time for you to take a bullet in the head. The map system 
 features just a generic X to denote all mission locations, leaving you no idea whether the objective 
 is up or down from your current position. Since a lot of indoor missions involve mazelike corridors 
 and flights of stairs, this can lead to some confusion. And some set locations aren't shown on 
 the map. While roadside stands and gas stations are represented by icons, key locales in town, 
 such as the arms dealer's shop and the motel, are missing in action.  

          Driving controls are so bad that even the NPCs can't get around the block without a crack-up. 
     

  Some aspects of the plot are poorly constructed too. Arnold Vosloo of  The Mummy  and  The Mummy 
 Returns , uh, fame, plays Meyers flatly, reciting lines with little emotion. Some of the supporting 
 cast are better, although a lot of lines in the game's many dialogue trees don't match their subtitles, 
 and conversations often branch off in directions that don't make any sense. Just one of the dozens 
 of examples is suddenly asking a man on the street if there are spies in town with absolutely no 
 preamble about the CIA in Puerto Somba. These moments make it seem like dialogue choices were cut 
 out of the game at the last minute to streamline conversations at the expense of lucidity. Just 
 hearing dialogue is difficult, too, as conversations are buried beneath music and environmental 
 effects.  

  OK, that's a lot of complaining. Boiling Point does have more than its fair share of flaws, but 
 at the same time it is also uniquely appealing (and nearly impossible to stop playing) because 
 of the gameworld's incredible openness. Being freed from the level-by-level design of the standard 
 shooter is a treat all on its own. As the GTA series has proven, there's something extremely addictive 
 about being released into a living and breathing world where you go out and explore to find your 
 adventures.  

  Realia is absolutely huge, too, including more than 240 square miles of terrain. You need a top-notch 
 machine with something like a Pentium IV 3.0 and a 9800- or 6800-class video card to appreciate 
 everything, but if you are so equipped, the scenery is gorgeous. Lush jungle landscape and an overall 
 run-down visual vibe (courtesy of such appropriate touches as rusted-out cars at the side of the 
 road) convey the atmosphere of a South American country on the fringes of Third World status. There 
 are no load times, either, so you can drive from one end of the map to the other without losing 
 a second of immersion in the gameworld to a loading screen. Still, initial loads are very long, 
 and there are enough pauses and hiccups that your suspension of disbelief isn't seamless.  

  Mission objectives are also incredibly varied. One moment you could be taking a photograph of 
 the mayor meeting with an unsavory character, and the next you could be blitzing a military base 
 to assassinate a rogue colonel, couriering a peace pipe for a local tribe, delivering mysterious 
 packages for the CIA, or blowing up a drug shipment -- the goals are all over the place, and you 
 don't do anything twice. You're also free to devise innovative strategies that don't always involve 
 leaving more bodies in your wake than Charles Manson. This diversity keeps the game feeling fresh 
 during the entire 50 or so hours of play required to finish an initial run-through.  

          Mission instructions are often pretty vague, although you can't go wrong if you just blow 
 everything up.     

  About the only real problem with missions is that they aren't set up with enough instructions or 
 capped with cutscenes or events that bring your adventure to a satisfying conclusion. Usually, 
 all you get for a job well done is a message saying "sub-mission accomplished." So, for example, 
 when you plant drugs on a citizen targeted by the chief of police, you don't get to see this person 
 actually arrested; your role comes to an end as soon as the drugs are dropped on the victim's nightstand. 

  Overall, Boiling Point is a great concept executed poorly. But if Deep Shadows puts some serious 
 work into the upcoming patches (according to the company's Web site, version 2.0 is already in 
 the works) , this work-in-progress could evolve into one of the best shooters of 2005 and could 
 become a real inspiration for shooter designers in the future.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (60 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AudioSoldier
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Broken, yet addictive. Released for the PC in 2005, Boiling Point appeals to my inner masochist, 
 my desire to be annoyed, frustrated, yet strangely drawn back. Rarely has a game done so much wrong 
 and yet still been so easy to devour. A traditional critical analysis would condemn Boiling Point 
 to the realms of the untouchable, for at times it's a horrible amalgam of bugs, AI glitches and 
 uneven framerates.
  
  The world of Realia is vast and daunting: Daunting in both size and in sheer technical roughness. 
 With bugs that range from random explosions to game-stopping glitches, three years has done little 
 to rectify Boiling Point's sagging mound of problems. You have an unpredictable gem, then, and 
 it's the game's inherent X Factor that prompts your whittling patience to return for more.
  
  You play as Saul Meyers and attempt to search for your daughter in the badlands of a fictional 
 South American hotspot (Realia, as aforementioned) . Civil-war rages and factions are out for blood. 
 Akin to, say, Far Cry 2, you work for the different factions, although Boiling Point makes more 
 sense in this respect. You can align yourself with who you wish, and you'll reap the consequences 
 accordingly. Working with the government, for instance, will prompt the bandits and mafia to view 
 your activities with a steely eye, prompting violence on their part. The game doesn't force you 
 into any allegiances, although the results are interesting.
  
  For the most part, Boiling Point is a First-Person Shooter with tacked on RPG bits for good measure. 
 Fluctuating skill levels add a degree of longevity to the experience, although their implementation 
 could have been more subtle. Longevity, though, is not a concern of Boiling Point's for the most 
 part. With a world as vast as Realia, it's impossible to see everything in one play-through. Whether 
 you're willing to trawl through the bug-ridden adventure a second time is debatable.
  
  Fascinatingly though, the bugs are possible to overlook. The gun mechanics are far from perfect, 
 but tense gunfights do ensue. You'll leave a base and walk straight into a rival faction's midst, 
 whereupon quick thinking and a ready trigger-finger are a must. The scope of the game allows for 
 idle traversing, too. Lazily exploring Boiling Point's dense forests and wild jungles is oddly 
 pleasing, while the visual representation of a sticky, muggy South America is aptly conveyed. At 
 the time of its release, perhaps most crippling was the behemoth required to run Boiling Point 
 at an acceptable framerate. 2 gigabytes of RAM was, and still is, a must. Given technological advancements, 
 computers should no longer struggle, and with everything ramped up, the game really is rather pretty. 
 Sure, it can't touch Crysis, but there's a ruddy appeal to its look, which sits well with the half-baked 
 programming.
  
  Perhaps then it's my love of sandbox games that prompts me to be so kind to this rough gem. Under 
 normal circumstances, a title with such a litany of flaws would prompt an iron fist review. Alas, 
 Boiling Point escapes my wrath. Perhaps it's the nature of sandbox games that with such room for 
 error, things never go according to the developer's plans. But when the game does work -- when 
 you're driving along a bumpy track and witness rival factions battling for supremacy or when you're 
 performing a covert operation or dealing with the citizens of Realia -- Boiling Point seems steadfastly 
 brilliant.
  
  It's a tale of two halves: One, crippled by glitches, the other, a well-made, original addition 
 to the legions of traditional First-Person Shooters. In the end, the title is more appropriate 
 than the developer's could ever have envisaged. It'll make your blood boil, it'll send you to the 
 depths of your inner hell, but ultimately, salvation is at hand. Do yourself a favor and sample 
 this gem; it's an unforgettable (though bumpy) ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbow4
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  This game is exactly what the name says it is: lots of roads that will drive you past your boiling 
 point straight to hell. After saying that I have to admit that it also had a lot of potential. 
 And for the first four or five hours the game actually is quite fun but then the programmers decided 
 that this was not going to be a GTA clone that has humor. Which in my opinion this game should 
 have had a whole lot more. One big thing is that after the final patch (2.0) this game doesn't 
 crash at all but it still tends to have some small bugs that don't kill the game but are annoying.
 
  
  The rpg elements in this game were interesting and it was fun to get better at something with practise. 
 Shoot a lot of enemies and shooting will become easier. Carry stuff around and you will get stronger. 
 Run around a lot and your maximum health increase. It's all very interesting and kept me playing 
 for some extra hours in order to maximize my character.
  
  The player character should be an ex-military type of guy but it's kind of strange that he doesn't 
 handle guns or vehicles all that well without practise. But that thing is actually explained quite 
 well in the game as you play because mr. Meyers will keep reminding that he's throat is dry and 
 he should get a drink or find a bar even though I haven't exposed him to alcohol yet.
  
  The controls are sharp and the character moves like he should except when he's drunk (we've seen 
 something like it in a game three years later) and when the character is injured he limbs around. 
 Driving on the other hand isn't as loose as it propably should be so now it feels like driving 
 a train on rails. 
  
  Graphics work okay although they're nothing spectacular. And the weather effects are not as inspiring 
 as I would hope. The sounds are okay, I guess. Can't say I felt they were all too convincing or 
 anything I could remember more than five minutes. 
  
  Yes the game has an amazingly large playfield that is build basically from three of four types 
 of small jungle blocks that are stuck on repeat and from one city and one rebel town. Also there's 
 some small mansions and farms and airports but they are empty and feel insignificant when compared 
 to the vast majority of the jungle that keeps on going. And the ways of transportation? Well, obviously 
 by foot or with cars, boats, planes & helicopters that are all slow options. (If you have the money 
 use taxi services.) Of course it all adds to the feeling that you are in a massive jungle but...
 
  
  It gets frustrating when the ways to complete a mission all require you to travel roughly ten minutes 
 into some direction in order to get something that you have to deliver back to where you left in 
 the first place - without a radio to entertain you. And most side missions are like that. The ones 
 that are not are usually about shooting a lot of enemies and that actually works quite well. The 
 enemies react to the shots pretty decently although it doesn't affect their aiming abilities one 
 bit - but when playing on the easy level it doesn't matter. It still is quite satisfying to see 
 enemies limp away from you after a few shots to the leg.
  
  This game has very little replay value because the missions are similar on each faction so it doesn't 
 matter what kind of character you play. You still see the same missions. Well, of course the game 
 is a whole lot easier in some of the main missions if you play as a criminal. Of course you get 
 to see different dialogue between the main character and the characters that give you missions 
 and some of it is quite funny.
  
  Some very annoying parts of the game (the type of delivery missions, monotonic terrain) couldn't 
 hide the fact that this amateurish production has a lot of potential in its action-rpg hybrid. 
 And I am actually looking forward to the sequel that hopefully makes the game a lot more enjoyable. 
 If you find this one with a low price tag from a bargain bin and are a fan of GTA clones and want 
 to experience a sweaty jungle action then you should give this one a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meat_Bag
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  Every now and then comes a game that is so frustrating, so disappointing, so full of bugs and with 
 the engine so broken that you simply have the NEED to tell the whole world what kind of horrors 
 you experienced before clicking on an uninstall icon. 
  
  That goes for Boiling Point. A very ambitious, very pompous (altou not very original) game that 
 screams "I wanna be like FarCry when I grow up!" from it's very box cover. 
  
  But let's just start from the beginning, shall we? In this game you hop into the shoes of Saul 
 Meyers, a macho man who spent his last 10 years of life in the Foreign Legion. Voiced by Arnold 
 Vosloo himself, this badass sets off on a quest of finding his dearly beloved daughter who disappeared 
 somewhere in this stereotypical banana republic where the game takes place. And by "republic", 
 I mean 1 small town surrounded by jungle and some villages. 
  First of all, I'd like to say that this doesn't add at all to the atmosphere, or the gameplay itself. 
 The story is a ripoff from the corniest action movies of 1980's, and Arnold didn't do much to bring 
 his character to life. I mean, heck, Arnold, I'm your big fan. You could've at least put some effort 
 into doing a proper voice acting, instead of simply speaking your lines with all the emotional 
 expression of a dead sea sponge. It'd make me a teeny-tiny bit happier. That IS your job as an 
 actor, after all... 
  And the environments are nothing but the same old jungle for miles, which gets boring real fast. 
 No great atmosphere at all, no cool looking tropical paradise. Don't expect FarCry, or Mercenaries 
 here.
  
  But let's say something about a game itself. To put it simply, this is a pure ripoff from the most 
 popular games released in the last couple of years. You have an FPS-style gameplay that feels awfully 
 like hybrid between Grand Theft Auto and Mercenaries. You have some fairly nice huge jungle environments 
 of FarCry, and character and weapons development of Deus Ex. Add some salt and pepper, boil for 
 20 minutes and you got yourself a nice, big, tasty cliche. Yes, my dear reader, on paper it all 
 looks great. It's the execution of all these ideas that sucks big time. Sure, you can drive vehicles. 
 You can perform tasks for a lot of different factions. Your character gets a little bit more skilled 
 throughout the game. But we've all seen it before. We've all done that before. Nothing new here... 
 And the amount of frustration you will experience while doing all that is simply off the charts.
 
  
  Why? Well, for one thing, the game looks horrible. Jungle environments look OK, but the characters 
 (Oh God, they look ugly!!!) , the vehicles, even the buildings look so disgusting it will make you 
 vomit. It might've looked good in 2001, but for a game released in 2005 it's simply embarrassing. 
 Not to mention the fact that game runs extremely slow at a times on the very same machine that 
 made FarCry run perfectly. The second thing is the AI. The enemies are simply brainless. Brainless, 
 impossibly accurate, always attacking by dozens and insanely fast when it comes to a gunfight. 
 That alone is enough to make firefights horrible and annoying. And very often (on every mission, 
 that is) the game is pitting you against tons of these super-soldiers who take about 5 or 6 bullets 
 in the head before they hit the ground. They can see you through even the most dense jungle vegetation, 
 they run about a 100 miles an hour when you fire at them and they all simultaneously shoot at you 
 and hit you without breaking a sweat. Add to that your sloppy aiming, inability to aim down sight 
 or even change firing mode of your weapon, limited ammo and dense jungle where you have trouble 
 even seeing your target, and you can imagine what the firefights are like. 
  
  As for the missions, well, that's another story. Don't expect anything more than simple fetch quests 
 where you have to gun down a battalion of enemies just to take a stupid map, or a laptop, and bring 
 it to the guy who hired you. No, I'm not making this up. Those are real missions from the game. 
 Your allies are brainless as well. Once, upon returning to a rebel base from a mission, I was talking 
 to a weapon salesman in the rebel base, only to see him getting killed all of a sudden by a gunship 
 that came out of nowhere, apparently looking for me for some reason. And yes, he knew where I was, 
 even tough we were inside a building. He was aiming at me all the time, proudly ignoring anyone 
 else, except maybe when he killed some guy by mere accident. Of course, despite the fact that a 
 gunship just killed their supplier and was ravaging their base, none of the brave guerilla warriors 
 even lifted a finger to fight. They never even moved. It was up to me to mount an AA gun and try 
 to defend THEIR base. Of course, I was killed in a second, thanks to the sloppy controls and gunship's 
 insane accuracy. 
  
  You want more? After stealing a laptop from a mafia base, I simply walked out into the jungle. 
 Sure, I received a few shots, but after I ran a few meters into the jungle, I stumbled upon another 
 mafia soldier. My character simply said "Don't shoot, I'm on your side!" and the soldiers simply 
 let me go, despite the fact that his buddies were trying to blow my brains out a few seconds ago 
 for stealing their classified informations. I was mafia friend again, in a mere second. 
  
  Had enough? I once entered a building in a military base, looking for some stupid map my employer 
 wanted me to get. I simply took it from underneath a soldier's nose, and as soon as I touched it, 
 the entire government army knew what I did and raised a crusade against me. They knew it before 
 even a shot was fired. It doesn't make a difference if you try to shoot the only soldier in the 
 room with a silenced pistol and take the map quietly (I tried, didn't work) or simply run and gun 
 the entire base, as soon as you scratch a soldier, the entire army knows it. 
  
  Want more? Didn't think so, friend... To put it as delicately as possible, the missions are derivate, 
 unimaginative, dull, repetitive and probably designed by a person seriously lacking any imagination. 
 
  
  Do I even need to mention tons of bugs plaguing this game? I played 2.0 version of the game, so 
 at least it never crashed to desktop, or corrupt my save files. But the sound was full of glitches, 
 you'd often hear noise from a mile away louder than the conversation you're having with the person 
 next to you. Sometimes you wouldn't even hear entire conversations, sounds of car horns would annoy 
 you over and over again as you're trying to talk to someone and all kinds of sounds would often 
 got "stuck" in a certain place. Loading times are loooooooooong, and you can drive your horrible-looking 
 vehicles even when the engine is off. 
  
  And one more thing... will the programmers finally stop putting pictures of their friends and family 
 into their games?!?! I once entered a gun store, only to see a huge photo of some girl with a goofy 
 facial expression behind the salesman. I mean, COME ON! As if the atmosphere hasn't been brutally 
 killed over and over again in this game, but now I have to look at some programmer's girlfriend 
 (or sister, or friend, or cousin...) while shopping for ammo for my underpowered AK-47 with only 
 one mode of fire! A nice gesture, sure, but completely annoying for anyone who is not on that photo. 
 Stop torturing the players, for the love of God!
  
  Even tough it looks and feels promising during first few hours, this is a game that never should've 
 seen the light of day. 
  
  This is without a doubt the worst game I have ever played... And I played A LOT!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 8, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Interface: 8.5/10
  - Game is based around the story but is very open ended and gameplay is freelance style. You can 
 explore throught a HUGE environment or just stick strictly to the missions and story. The reputation 
 aspect is ok, but seems too hard to get you rep up and waaay to easy for it to go down. Lots of 
 things to do and see in this game. Starting off is the worst because it takes for ever to travel 
 and nobody really likes you or is helpfull.
  
  Environment & Immersion: 7/10
  - Very immersive since you can freelance and explore a humoungous map. RPG style content with other 
 characters and how you go about the story and missions. You have a lot of different sides you can 
 choose. Guns and weapons are absolutely terrible and aren't even fun until you level up a tremendous 
 ammount which is very hard.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 8/10
  - Graphics were great for its time, certainly some things out with better graphics but it still 
 very amusing to the eyes. Environment is very well done and physics aren't really existant other 
 than when you fall from certain heights you can get hurt..... if you even consider that physics.
 
  
  Sound: 7.5/10
  - Decent sound, nothing to rant-and-rave about. I heard the word gringo a "bazillion" times.
 
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 4.5/10
  - Well apparantly theres a ton of patches required to make this game run somewhat smoothly, unfortunately 
 I review off of "out of the box" status, which basically means I rate without patches. Terribly 
 long loading screens, I can't imagine how bad it would have been back in 2005. Game did bluescreen 
 on me once with a nvidia graphics error, game itself crashed once more after that, then everything 
 was fine. Game should have had much better performance but being there isn't any real ingame loading, 
 its understandable why the initial loading is treacherous.
  
  Replay value: 8.5/10
  - I found my self continously coming back to try new things and play some more even when I said 
 I wouldn't. Was also late to work at least once due to this game.
  
  Value for money: 7/10
  - $10-$15.... ehhh thats a hard one, thats a cheap price but this games 
 performance works about as good as chinese plastic toys for children, both some how seem poisoning 
 to the end user. Still for such cheap current prices I'd say yeah probably.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Not with games 
 like Grand Theft Auto and Just Cause on the market, this game wasn't even well know when it was 
 released.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - People who like open ended and freelance style games, or are just incredibly bored.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall: 7 - Amusing for some time but thats if you can even bear to get past the loading screens. 
 Open range game with lots to do, firearms perform terribly. This game truely is the middle passage 
 between good and evil, theres about an equal amount of both in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes, a unique game comes along for the PC that was designed by a small developer with the 
 grandest of visions  games like Gothic, Arcanum, and Vampire  The Masquerade: Bloodlines. Frequently, 
 these games deliver a lot of quality content and some excellent, unique gameplay mechanics. They 
 are also often plagued with bugs and other holes that show just how much the developer was stretched 
 to make such a unique title. Boiling Point: The Road to Hell falls firmly into that group, but 
 it is not one of its stronger members. Like its high concept brethren, Boiling Point is like a 
 dream come true on paper. However, once you fire it up and get into it, the weak production values, 
 uncountable glitches, choppy frame rates, horrible shooting action, and boring gameplay spoil your 
 excitement for the game. Boiling Point is huge and ambitious, but it's just not that good.
  
  Boiling Point could best be described as a modern day Oblivion with guns, jungles, and vehicles. 
 (Ironically, Boiling Point might fit the "Oblivion with guns" moniker better than the upcoming 
 Fallout 3) . It is completely open-ended, allowing you to take on or complete just about any mission 
 that you want at any time. Along the way you earn money, pick up guns and ammo, find and loot goodies, 
 and shoot bad guys. To its credit, Boiling Point is as open-ended as you can get. You have every 
 bit the freedom that you would find in a Grand Theft Auto or an Elder Scrolls game. Your quest 
 log fills up quickly, and once it does, you will have a huge menu of missions to take on at any 
 time. Buy a car. Steal an item from one faction and give it to another. Clear out a base full of 
 enemies. Take a picture and then use it as blackmail. Buy gas for your car, and while you are exploring, 
 find a hidden weapons dealer. This type of game has always been a short attention span, explorer's 
 dream. You can easily play for 40 hours without making much progress on the main quest. There is, 
 indeed, something special about a game with a living, breathing world like this. To its credit, 
 Boiling Point has a great map system, which allows you to put all sorts of custom markers on it 
 and choose where you want to go next. It even saves every NPC that you have talked to so that you 
 can find that person. It is a lot easier to tolerate bugs and gameplay issues with this template.
 
  
  At the same time, Boiling Point fails to deliver the "living, breathing world" in a few key ways. 
 This world is very empty. You can drive around and explore, but there is very little that is interesting 
 to do between mission points. The major city in which you begin the game is large and has a lot 
 of buildings, but you can't go inside most of them, and there are hardly any citizens walking the 
 streets or cars driving around. The game allows you all sorts of breadth, but it fails to reward 
 you for exploring it. Boiling Point's fictional country sometimes feels like an empty shell. It 
 has the size of a Grand Theft Auto or an Elder Scrolls game, but not the density.
  
  Boiling Point's gameplay is very Deus Ex-ish, at least on the surface. It is primarily a first 
 person shooter, but it has an inventory screen where you manage your stuff, a hotkey bar where 
 you drag items like your favorite guns or health packs, and a skill system. It also has an RPG-like 
 trading interface when you meet a merchant. PC Gamers will appreciate the complexity, but it has 
 some problems with its implementation. Looting corpses is much more tedious than it should be. 
 You cannot simply drag and drop items into your inventory. The game asks you to confirm each transfer. 
 When you are transferring ammo, you have an extra dialog box to confirm how many bullets to transfer. 
 There is no quick transfer method, like a double click, shift-click, or a "transfer all". Considering 
 how much time you spend managing inventory, it quickly becomes an issue.
  
  Inventory management isn't a major problem, as much as it is symptomatic of an overall lack of 
 QA and polish. Rumor has it, Boiling Boint was nigh unplayable when it was first released. Over 
 two and a half years later, it has been extensively patched, but some of its edges are still very 
 rough. Audio constantly cuts out. I would say that that audio in this game works well less than 
 50% of the time. Sometimes, you will see NPC's in an aiming pose without a weapon in his hands. 
 NPC's driving vehicles will sometimes crash into walls and then honk their horns as if the building 
 in front of them is supposed to lift itself up and walk away. When you aim down the sights of your 
 gun, there is no animation for it  you just switch to aim mode in a single frame. There are too 
 many bugs, glitches, and problem areas to name. Every five minutes, you find a new one. None of 
 them are game-breaking anymore, but the sum of them is very hard to look past.
  
  The one flaw that drags down Boiling Point the most is the fact that it fails miserably as a first 
 person shooter. The act of firing guns and killing enemies is simply not fun in this game. It's 
 more often than not, an exercise in extreme frustration. Enemies run a thousand miles an hour, 
 darting around like flies, occasionally stopping to pick you off and chip away at your health. 
 Guns jam constantly when you are early in the game -- you can't pull the trigger on a gun with 
 a better than 50% chance that it will actually go off. Try getting into close quarters combat with 
 an enemy and then dying because your gun jammed three times in a row and you will see what I mean. 
 The handling of all of the weapons just feels wrong and none of the weapons seem like they pack 
 any visual punch. Since combat is a major part of completing most of the missions in the game, 
 the fact that it is almost broken is a huge problem for Boiling Point. Like the shooting, driving 
 vehicles is never what it is cracked up to be. The mouse and keyboard just isn't a very good scheme 
 for vehicle controls.
  
  I played this game recently with 2 GB of RAM and an Nvidia 8800GTX. I was able to max it out on 
 all of those settings, but that's not saying much. The vegetation looks nice, but everything else 
 looks like a time warp back to 2002. The blocky character models, vehicles, flat plain textures, 
 etc. They look downright awful in places. I tried playing this game about a year ago on a Radeon 
 X1900XT, and I had to turn down the settings to about 75%, which was disappointing, considering 
 that Boiling Point was released in 2005, and the X1900XT was a high end card in 2006. It does not 
 appear to be a very well-optimized game. Unless you have a high end card, you will probably be 
 disappointed by this three year old game's choppy performance.
  
  After playing this game for a while, you will wonder whether it's worth it to keep making boring 
 treks into the countryside for a few minutes worth of action that isn't very good. It is very hard 
 to stay interested in this game. It doesn't please me to say that Boiling Point is so lousy. It 
 was such a great concept, but maybe that's part of the problem. It seems like a classic example 
 of a game that was way too ambitious for the small developer working on it. That might explain 
 the game's universally amateurish feel. The game looks outdated for its age, and even then, it 
 was released with all kinds of quirks and glitches. You might think this game sounds great on paper, 
 but you are better off avoiding it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  Boiling Point is one hell of a game. People always say how buggy it is but for me, I have not experienced 
 any crashes at all. Sure, I get some glitches but they dont really affect the gameplay at all. 
 Just get the patch if you do experience lots of crashes, then you'll like the game a whole lot 
 more.
  
  So what do you actually do in boiling Point? Well, the story is basic- your daughter works in a 
 country in South America called Realia (it's made up) and is kidnapped and you, Saul Myers go to 
 Realia to find her. You are given total freedom. You dont actually have to look for your daughter 
 if you dont want to! You can do anything at your own pace including missions. And unlike other 
 free roaming games like GTA you can do the missions in any order or just not do them at all and 
 replace them with other missions. Of course, you dont have to do missions, you can just explore 
 the countries towns, jungles, villages, or just run or drive for miles! You can do other missions 
 for extra money too, helping random people out. 
  
  In Boiling Point you can do a hell of a lot. It's a game that offers many, many hours of gameplay. 
 You can buy loads of things- food, drink, guns and weapons, pay people for info, get a room at 
 a motel, you can even buy cars. You can also do other things such as talk to people to get help 
 or ask where to get to places, upgrade your weapons (which is a great idea!) , work for various 
 types of people including the Government, Guerillas, Mafia, Bandits, CIA and even Indians. Yep 
 theres loads to do here.
  
  How big is Realia? Big. About 450km squared. And you can explore the country however you want- 
 by foot, car, plane, helicopter or boat. What's the landscape like? The place is full of lush jungles, 
 run down looking towns, rivers, mountains and waterfalls. It's quite an impressive world for a 
 game (though not quite up to standards as Oblivion) .
  
  Boiling Point looks damn good. The graphics are superb. While the jungles dont exactly look as 
 good as Far Cry's, they are still REALLY nice for a huge game. The water effects are very nice 
 too, the chraracters look good and buildings, shadows etc look great. However, you will need a 
 powerful PC to see it at it's best. I run at high settings, but not very high settings at 1024x768 
 resolution. It looks really good but it looks even better at very high! There is only one load 
 time too which is nice. 
  
  The sound is average. The same music is played often and it might annoy you after a while. However, 
 the voice acting is pretty decent and when you talk to everyone, each person actually talks properly 
 with a voice, it's not just text. The car sounds are rubbish though.
  
  The main problems with Boiling Point is that the combat isnt that great- the AI is terrible and 
 the guns dont feel great either. The decent weapons like the M16 and AK-47 always jam wihich is 
 really annoying. however, the customisable options including ammo type and accuracy etc makes up 
 for the combat a bit because you have lots of options. The sound and music are a bad point as you've 
 just heard. The driving is bad as well. The cars handle badly and most cars are way too slow. Oh, 
 and of course, the bugs (which I have never encountered and I didnt even install the patch) . 
 
  
  Overall though this will definitely appeal to free raming fans or FPS/RPG fans and it is a very, 
 very good game with tons to do that is a great experience if you dont have any of the bugs and 
 glitches. Download the patch just in case.
  
  Pros:
  +Huge 450km squared game world to explore
  +Great graphics and environments
  +Lots of weapons 
 and upgrades
  +A variety of vehicles to control
  +Great chracter interaction
  
  Cons:
  -Unsatisfying combat
  -Idiotic AI
  -Poor driving physics
  -Repetitive, annoyin music 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  the first time i played this through i thought "well the devs have truckloads of ideas, shame they 
 don't know the meaning of 'de-bug'"
  the upgrades of weapons is good, wear and tear was good concept and the completely open world was 
 a good idea for this type of game but many issues stopped me from actually bothering with it again.
 
  the major problem is bugs. the list of bugs for this game is longer than the brief history of 
 the universe. extended edition.
  for example, when in a firefight, i switched to my FAL and all that happened was a frozen game. 
 same thing happens when accepting quests, looking at the map, shooting people or going too deep 
 into the jungle.
  the major problem for me was the fact that the game's engine was sluggish. i had way above the 
 recommended specs for this game and it still juttered like it didn't know what to do next. 
  
  overall, the concepts in the game are very good and would have worked well but the bugs and 
 choppy engine just put this game in the bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  In 2005 Saul myers (ex-military) hits the boiling point and goes to puerto sombra to find his daughter, 
 the jungle adventure begins! Nice story and loadscreens but the game is childish! Althoutht the 
 gameplay is awful and tha makes it extremly difficult!
  
  The graphics are good and it has nice bloom effects but the shader model is awful and according 
 to the huge enviroment the loadscreens take ages and you are gonna need and excelent machine to 
 play it!
  
  The sound: Not much here the music suck and the sound and dialogues are childish! (plus that you 
 have to press escape to skip the dialogues!
  
  The gameplay (why, why, why so bad!)
  To connect it with the sound id like yo say that the movement of the characters in the dialogues 
 is pathetic and really funny!
  Now the gameplay:
  
  Driving awful controls that even the npcs crash their vehicles to walls all the time, and the jugle 
 is extremly huge! this reduces the system perfomance and takes time to travel from mission to mission! 
 (just imagine a mission which you have to go there then get back then up there again for the reward!
 
  If you dont get killed inside the jungle from the goverment-rebel-drug mafia wars, then your vehicle 
 will rin out of gas! (nice idea since you travel in the jungle and you have to fill up your ride 
 again in the gastations But they are overdoing it!) Oh i almost forgot the game is ful of bugs 
 so you might lose your parked vehicle with all the weapons in the truck (yes you can store items 
 in the truck! If one of your tires is blown off then you have change it with an outher one from 
 the truck) you can see your vehicle in the map but its now under the ground! The life :well there 
 are only 2 towns in the game! so you may enjoy drinking and gain alchol addiction or medcine and 
 adrenaline addiction! of you die you will spawn at the hospital like gta but there is only one 
 hospital in the beginnig of the game! (very anconvinient) Also you have a player profile like and 
 rpg: Rank experience (better weapons from the shops, you can buy many weapons from the begginig and 
 upgrade them but the upgrades are pahetic and the weapons suck but the got some graphic detail 
 like stalker!
  In any case the ex military starts with all skills to 0 even the weapons so you have to shout, 
 shout, shout all the time to upgrade plus it takes time and you are extremly anacuaruate! your 
 outher stats like physique and strengh (carry weight are also on 0 (hmm it will be better if you 
 could chose some upgrades lie deus ex! You will also have realtions or could go to the bar or in 
 a base to take missions! Now the relations change according what you do in the game for example 
 if you work for the goverment the rebels will hate you or the mafia the bandits will hate you for 
 the villangers the mafia will hate you for the indians the goverment willl hate you!
  
  Now the combat ! Everything is allright until someone shouts after that everyone is going crazy! 
 you can shout for sh#t while they are extremly accurate a few shots nad you are dead while they 
 need hundreds it is hard to aim since you have to stand still and smootly and slowly move the mouse 
 or it will unzoom! the enemies keep shouting and are placing all the shot on you (they simly duck 
 and uload the whole clip on you keep in mind that you take hit all the time and you cant shout 
 **** if taken or take damage so you have to open the inventory and use a medkit to replenish h 
 15% of your health!!!!! You have to do this all the time or youl die! (you will gain medcine addiction, 
 no big great deal because you will use millions of stimpacks anyway!) also it is like deus ex so 
 the recoil makes your enemies to hit hte head and die even with 24% health! Now read carrefully 
 the enemies shouting you all the time the dont die easilly you are etremly inacuarrute and execpt 
 that you can shout in semi mode since the upgrades upgrade your fire rate and range whats the point 
 of upgrading your weapon clip by 1 (so mit pistol have 5 and it has 6 !!!!
  the enemies are moving left and right al the time up down left everywhere and shout you all the 
 shots hit you (no not like unreal tournament or hitman 2 even worse!!!) thats why all the enemies 
 crouch unload the whole clip on you and then stand up strafe realod and duck again! (by the way 
 ducking proning standing still dont change anything you just have to walk to be more accuarute!) So 
 thats why the duck because if the weapon is not auto they fully patrol the area (imagine this i 
 walk inside a room with an ak 47 and suddenly someone with a shotgun unloads a full mag on me by 
 strafing an moving to fast everywhere in the room, plus my weapon getting jam all th time!! So 
 I am unable to shout move hit him or survive, HOLY SH#T!!!!! Oh yeah i forgot to tell you if you 
 pick an enemy weapon it will missfire or the time!!! But why the weapon has problem not the ammo!
 
  Ithink i said enough, but the gameplay is even worse if toy dare try it out your self!
  
  The bugs there are million but i want point you anything
  expect these 2: oh i forgot something 
 an million outher to find what happen to his daughter you have to pay anyone and without cash you 
 cant continue the game thats why you have to play the sidemissions! So to complete thwe game i 
 used traines (they dont work tin the last versions!
  The common bug with the savegames deystoyed my saves nearly the end of the game so i clouldnt complete 
 it Some users said the latest patch fixes this, bullsh#t it sdoesnt fixes crap it even makes it 
 worse since you cant alt tab the game and if you try the custom graphics you press the back button 
 and nothing happen you have to restart your pc!!!! THE GAME SUCKS (ATARI AND DEEP SHADOWS WHAT 
 THE HELL DO YOU EXEPCT) MAKE A GAME WITH GAMEPLAY DAMM IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blake_shortland
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Off the bat let me just say i'm a big fan of huge open ended environments that i can explore for 
 hours. Boiling Point certainly delivers on that.
  
  If you have an unlimited patience and also enjoy large free form games then this could be for you, 
 bare in mind you will need to be heavily invested in this game to look past it's many bugs.
  
  One of my big gripes is the disturbing frequency the weapons 'lock up'. You would be well advised 
 to buy your weapons raher han pilfer hem from the dead but even so it is ridiculous how many times 
 you'll be in a fire fight and have your gun simply click away harmlessly at crucial moments. this 
 is particularly annoying given most of the battles you can be hopelessly out numbered.
  
  The driving in the game is terribly flawed but you can get used it after a while and adjust accordingly, 
 you will need to as the world is simply huge.
  
  The factions are numerous and can be satisfying to build allies but if you kill a civilian in a 
 fire fight accidently it can be a nightmare trying to get them back on you're side making a simple 
 stroll through a main street potentially deathly.
  
  The graphics in the jungle are simply breathtaking even by todays standards. some textures are 
 a bit dodgy elsewhere but this is forgivable in a game this size.
  
  All in all you will need to turn a blind eye to a lot going on in this game but it is also very 
 addictive and certainly worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 3, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Its that time of the month again, when we close my teams little section of SAP and our operations 
 group takes a few personal days while Accounting does whatever it is accountants do during ledger 
 reconciliation week. This is when I get a chance to take a small breather myself, actually dine 
 out for lunch for a few days rather than gobble sandwiches at my desk or, more to the point, take 
 a moment to type out one or two of these reviews. My teams workload was hit with a double-whammy 
 at the beginning of the year thanks to the chuckleheads at HQ, with a 50% cut in our headcount 
 and, at the very same time, an expansion in our companys audit scope to include its business units 
 in every single country in the world. Time is precious, which is why I was hesitant, at first, 
 to spend it on a review for Boiling Point. The game appeared dimly in the public consciousness 
 a few years ago and then faded away quickly, just another of those large-scale, free-roaming semi-RPGs 
 inspired by the most recent entries in the Grand Theft Auto series.
  
  I spent nearly a month rustling through the Colombian jungle (herein re-dubbed unnecessarily as 
 Realia) , plundering the heck out of bandit camps and just generally exploring around until boredom 
 overcame me. Three or four weeks is a lot of time to spend on a game that only rarely entertained 
 me, but Im pretty meticulous when it comes to faction quests; I made good buddies with the federales 
 and cops, so I spent most of my time as their errand boy. Turning tricks for them meant that the 
 local thieves and revolutionaries hated me more and more with each bullet spent, which leads to 
 my first and biggest gripe about BP: attacking a single enclave out in the middle of nowhere magically 
 triggered a telepathic alarm among every other bad guy in the games considerably large and detailed 
 playpen, which comes off as just plain stupid. That same kind of insta-blacklisting affects the 
 players relationship with every faction, as well. I cant count the number of times I ran over 
 that doggone peasant  you know the one, if you took one of BPs handful of autos for a spin on 
 the main road  who was placed so very ubiquitously and ridiculously every 100 yards or so, close 
 enough to the tarmac to get himself killed if I weaved or turned wide to the slightest extent. 
 Running over the little fella  even if no witnesses were present  instantly marked me for a greeting 
 from every other civilian with grenades and gunfire upon my arrival in town.
  
  Since I had to watch my Ps and Qs so closely while driving, the act of taking my Humvee for a spin 
 became about as entertaining as commuting to work here in the real world, and there was an awful 
 lot of ground to cover in Sauls dank and tangled neighborhood. I liked my purloined Hummer a lot, 
 though. I learned the trick of easing up on the many preset battles between the cops and robbers 
 along the road, waiting and watching as they wiped each other out, so that I could loot any losers 
 for some decent prizes. The driver of any cars caught in the crossfire of these skirmishes would 
 hop out, mad as a hornet, and join the fray, leaving their ride available for a consequence-free 
 jacking in the likely event that they didnt return. Some traffic jams produced a nice, satisfying 
 conflagration if the combatants pumped enough lead into one or more of the lightly armored vehicles. 
 Anything that wasnt destroyed was all mine, and thats how I first inherited a nice pickup and 
 then, on only my third try, one of AM Generals finest.
  
  So, my evening decompression ritual was spent stealing spare tires and ammo, rumbling along the 
 increasingly similar pathways into the forest to slowly and carefully pick off the residents of 
 the many hidden camps, and then returning to one of the few designated resellers in the area to 
 cash out my findings. Evolving into a boatman and then a helicopter and airplane pilot later in 
 the game was not the monotony-breaker that I hoped it would be, so the epiphany that I was not 
 having much fun came early one Saturday morning. I immediately switched to the main quest, finished 
 it by bedtime the very next day, and moved on to a much more entertaining and stable game  Serious 
 Sam 2, as I recall  with nary a look back. I never even tried to find the Xenus artifact after 
 which the game was originally titled; after the gameplay dwindled into drudgery, I just didnt 
 care.
  
  Boiling Point was an ambitious title that really captured my interest at first. There was so much 
 room to roam in Colombia/Realia, but ultimately not much to do. The scenery was stunning  I mean 
 really, really, really nice; just have a look at some of the screenshots over in the Images section 
 -- even after I whittled my video settings down to their minimum potential to salvage a decent 
 framerate on a relatively powerful (at the time) rig. Gun battles were unsatisfying, since drawing 
 an accurate bead on my enemies required me to stay very, very still thanks to the ridiculous pseudo-role-playing 
 convention of resetting an experienced Legionnaires combat skills to those of a palsied newbie. 
 BP is still on my hard drive, but Ill likely remove it the next time I perform some housecleaning 
 on my storage devices. Time is precious, after all, and there are so many more entertaining and 
 stable shooters, driving games, and flight simulators on the market. Titles that successfully combine 
 the three activities are still few and far between, but I wouldnt recommend Boiling Point over 
 GTA: San Andreas, Far Cry, or even a nice Sunday drive in the real world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 5.1
Date: Aug 1, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Buying boiling point its a waste of money, it was a great promissing game cause of the open ended 
 free roaming FPS game but in truth it sucks really hard. You have a big zone to explore in the 
 game and a really free roaming sense but the presentation its too explosive and overacted, the 
 graphics in the game are really bad with lots of bugs (the game have lots of bugs not only in graphics 
 but in almost everything) , the cars are ugly, characters are ugly, city is ugly, water textures 
 are ugly, almost everything its bad about the graphics, about the gameplay its the samething, driving 
 a car its something really bad and shooting isn't that cool. Some character animations are soooo 
 bad exp: early in the game you go talk to a guy for some info, sometimes he gets hungry and sometimes 
 he is just talking normal, either way he is always acting very hungry, he is saying something like 
 yes, sir of course, i intend to help you in everyway i can , and he is hitting the table with all 
 his strenght... this is really bad.
  Soundtrack are also bad, repetitive and annoying.
  Just don't get this game its not worth your hardly won money.
  
  Gameplay - 4 shooting its 
 not good and driving a car its something that stands between horrible and catastrofic.
  Graphics - 5 bad graphics, bad character models, bad animations.
  Sound - 6 repetitive, not good 
 but you can support it and some effects are ok.
  Value - 7 the game take sometime to finish but you wont get back into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainPervert
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  I don't want to get into the bugs and poor performance of this game. Alot of that has already been 
 written by other reviewers. I have a 2.6 Ghz AMD CPU and a dual 6600 GT SLI rig, which ought to 
 be enough for a 2005 game, but the framerates are disappointing, especially in towns. The issue 
 I would like to address here is the so-called freedom in the game. Although the map is huge, there 
 are only few places where you can do something. The areas along the border of the map are completely 
 empty, for instance. As are other large parts of the map. After crossing the map multiple times 
 you run into the same ambushes, the same gasstations and the same shootouts over and over again. 
 Each time, all objects (car wrecks, bandits, signs, everything) are placed in exactly the same 
 positions. That's how they filled the 25x25km area: by copy-pasting.
  
  At the time of release (2005) the game was frequently compared with Morrowind (Oblivion was not 
 released yet) . Supposedly, you could interact with many people and do stuff all over the map. In 
 BP, the NPC's are limited to a few faction leaders. Everyone else is just scenery.
  
  The car handling is the worst ever in a game. I know it's an FPS and not a rally game, but come 
 on, even the APC in the old counterstrike siege map handled better. Not to mention the bland 2d 
 sprite that's supposed to be the dashboard of the cars.
  
  The game has it's good sides however, collecting weapons and other junk in the trunk of your car 
 is fun. Loading up food, ammo, gas and spare tyres and heading out for adventure is extremely cool. 
 The jungle looks good, of you've got the PC to show it with some detail.
  
  The flaws will make me finish this game, delete it and never look back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azail11
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 3, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  The game is centered around Saul Meyers. He's just your average ordinary guy. You know, ex-French 
 Foreign Legion, weapons expert, father, etc. Anyways, Saul's daughter has gone missing and you 
 have to find her. No one ones to talk without seeing some green and lucky for you, you know how 
 to use a gun. Remember, everyone is always looking for a good hired gun to complete tasks for them 
 a la GTA style.
  
  The graphics in the game are amazing. The jungle is lush, but you better have quite the video card 
 to get the scenery to look pristine (Geforce 7800/900 or ATIx1800/900) . The vehicles aren't much 
 to talk about because some look like they gave a 5 yr old a crayon and told them to color the dashboard 
 of the car. Other than that, the models are well done, just movement is sometimes jaggy.
  
  The sound is decent, but you may find yourself going outside at night just to kill some crickets 
 and rid yourself of that annoying sound. The rain is well done and voice acting isn't that bad. 
 It gets to be cliche sometimes, but hey, the plot is already pretty cliche.
  
  The biggest drawback to the game is execution. There is tons of potential for this game, but it 
 was pushed out way too early. Even years later the bugs haven't been fixed and I still lose good 
 cars because dropping items near my car leaves the item box on top of the car and make it immobile. 
 This is also a pretty crash heavy game. You also need to watch out for non-standard resolutions 
 too. All in all, a good game with great ideas, but fails miserably when put to the test. 9 for 
 content 3 for execution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaca_42
Rating: 1.9
Date: May 22, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Boiling point is the worst game i have ever played! the game isnt worth the money its a total letdown 
 the game is extremely hard you die very fast and your allways out of money you either have to spend 
 it to get information or buying something.
  the game is full of bugs graphicely desapoiting the sounds are incredebely unrealistic and if i 
 write all the problems with this game it would take me the hole day to do it.
  and i think im being to nice by giving a 1.9 score!
  iv never been this dispointed with a game 
 like this 1! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: au25
Rating: 4.4
Date: Apr 6, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  In 2005 Saul myers (ex-military) hits the boiling point and goes to puerto sombra to find his daughter, 
 the jungle adventure begins! Nice story and loadscreens but the game is childish! Althoutht the 
 gameplay is awful and tha makes it extremly difficult!
  
  The graphics are good and it has nice bloom effects but the shader model is awful and according 
 to the huge enviroment the loadscreens take ages and you are gonna need and excelent machine to 
 play it!
  
  The sound: Not much here the music suck and the sound and dialogues are childish! (plus that you 
 have to press escape to skip the dialogues!
  
  The gameplay (why, why, why so bad!)
  To connect it with the sound id like yo say that the movement of the characters in the dialogues 
 is pathetic and really funny!
  Now the gameplay:
  
  Driving awful controls that even the npcs crash their vehicles to walls all the time, and the jugle 
 is extremly huge! this reduces the system perfomance and takes time to travel from mission to mission! 
 (just imagine a mission which you have to go there then get back then up there again for the reward!
 
  If you dont get killed inside the jungle from the goverment-rebel-drug mafia wars, then your vehicle 
 will rin out of gas! (nice idea since you travel in the jungle and you have to fill up your ride 
 again in the gastations But they are overdoing it!) Oh i almost forgot the game is ful of bugs 
 so you might lose your parked vehicle with all the weapons in the truck (yes you can store items 
 in the truck! If one of your tires is blown off then you have change it with an outher one from 
 the truck) you can see your vehicle in the map but its now under the ground! The life :well there 
 are only 2 towns in the game! so you may enjoy drinking and gain alchol addiction or medcine and 
 adrenaline addiction! of you die you will spawn at the hospital like gta but there is only one 
 hospital in the beginnig of the game! (very anconvinient) Also you have a player profile like and 
 rpg: Rank experience (better weapons from the shops, you can buy many weapons from the begginig and 
 upgrade them but the upgrades are pahetic and the weapons suck but the got some graphic detail 
 like stalker!
  In any case the ex military starts with all skills to 0 even the weapons so you have to shout, 
 shout, shout all the time to upgrade plus it takes time and you are extremly anacuaruate! your 
 outher stats like physique and strengh (carry weight are also on 0 (hmm it will be better if you 
 could chose some upgrades lie deus ex! You will also have realtions or could go to the bar or in 
 a base to take missions! Now the relations change according what you do in the game for example 
 if you work for the goverment the rebels will hate you or the mafia the bandits will hate you for 
 the villangers the mafia will hate you for the indians the goverment willl hate you!
  
  Now the combat ! Everything is allright until someone shouts after that everyone is going crazy! 
 you can shout for sh#t while they are extremly accurate a few shots nad you are dead while they 
 need hundreds it is hard to aim since you have to stand still and smootly and slowly move the mouse 
 or it will unzoom! the enemies keep shouting and are placing all the shot on you (they simly duck 
 and uload the whole clip on you keep in mind that you take hit all the time and you cant shout 
 **** if taken or take damage so you have to open the inventory and use a medkit to replenish h 
 15% of your health!!!!! You have to do this all the time or youl die! (you will gain medcine addiction, 
 no big great deal because you will use millions of stimpacks anyway!) also it is like deus ex so 
 the recoil makes your enemies to hit hte head and die even with 24% health! Now read carrefully 
 the enemies shouting you all the time the dont die easilly you are etremly inacuarrute and execpt 
 that you can shout in semi mode since the upgrades upgrade your fire rate and range whats the point 
 of upgrading your weapon clip by 1 (so mit pistol have 5 and it has 6 !!!!
  the enemies are moving left and right al the time up down left everywhere and shout you all the 
 shots hit you (no not like unreal tournament or hitman 2 even worse!!!) thats why all the enemies 
 crouch unload the whole clip on you and then stand up strafe realod and duck again! (by the way 
 ducking proning standing still dont change anything you just have to walk to be more accuarute!) So 
 thats why the duck because if the weapon is not auto they fully patrol the area (imagine this i 
 walk inside a room with an ak 47 and suddenly someone with a shotgun unloads a full mag on me by 
 strafing an moving to fast everywhere in the room, plus my weapon getting jam all th time!! So 
 I am unable to shout move hit him or survive, HOLY SH#T!!!!! Oh yeah i forgot to tell you if you 
 pick an enemy weapon it will missfire or the time!!! But why the weapon has problem not the ammo!
 
  Ithink i said enough, but the gameplay is even worse if toy dare try it out your self!
  
  The bugs there are million but i want point you anything
  expect these 2: oh i forgot something 
 an million outher to find what happen to his daughter you have to pay anyone and without cash you 
 cant continue the game thats why you have to play the sidemissions! So to complete thwe game i 
 used traines (they dont work tin the last versions!
  The common bug with the savegames deystoyed my saves nearly the end of the game so i clouldnt complete 
 it Some users said the latest patch fixes this, bullsh#t it sdoesnt fixes crap it even makes it 
 worse since you cant alt tab the game and if you try the custom graphics you press the back button 
 and nothing happen you have to restart your pc!!!! THE GAME SUCKS (ATARI AND DEEP SHADOWS WHAT 
 THE HELL DO YOU EXEPCT) MAKE A GAME WITH GAMEPLAY DAMM IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  Aside from bugs even using the Euro patch, I have to say it is a cool game.. if it wasn't bug ridden 
 I would probably have the nerve to finish this game, but since I don't have the patience to put 
 up with a game that is prone to crashing after almost every hour of play.. I have to leave it unfinished. 
 Gameplay: pretty decent.. although clunky at times.. you get used to it.. NPCs get stuck on parts 
 of the environment (their cars do) .. although its able to be delt with.. this is just one obvious 
 bug... also some screen tearing occurs while using a 8800.. the game DOES support widescreen format.. 
 contrary to popular belief that it does not.. (of course this is with the Euro patch) I didn't 
 try with the US patch.. and yes the Euro patch works on US versions :)
  
  Graphics: not aging well.. although they were good when the game was released.. but other games 
 did better in terms of graphical representation in 2005. Sound: some sound cut offs using a X-Fi 
 card.. some dialogue is not spoken.. but the text is there for you to read anyways.. the music 
 is okay nothing to be whoo hoo about.. it does pretty well to get you into the game .
  
  Value: excellent, more side quests than you can wave a stick at.. thus bringing the replay value 
 of such a large game to extreme levels.
  
  Tilt: I give it a solid 7 for being a good game.. but if the bugs are ever worked out with user 
 released patches.. I will more than likely play this game to its full capacity.. as it sits now.. 
 I cannot say more than a total score of 7.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Generally I won't rate or review a game until I've played it for several hours and have a feel 
 for what is actually going on. First impressions are important, but as opposed to my title, they 
 aren't always an indication of what is in store. I got Boiling Point in late December and never 
 installed it until yesterday, but I'd read numerous reviews and after a resurgence of threads in 
 the PC forum, I decided it was high time I play it. The opening cutscene is a disaster. The music 
 drowns out the speech so that if it were not for the subtitles, you would be clueless regarding 
 the background. The game takes an eternity to load even on an above-average computer, so I was 
 already feeling my blood boil. Once I got to the first NPC I had to encounter, I quickly found 
 you cannot move on to the dialogue tree until the character is done talking. And the voice acting 
 is horrendous, so even once you're done reading each paragraph, the NPC drawls on with plodding 
 and bored tone. Finally, I got to my daughter's car. You actually have to turn it on and off. That 
 is far too much realism, and additionally, you have to fill up on fuel. Ridiculous. At this time, 
 I'm becoming so impatient I want to delete it immediately, but I continue on. Driving is so awful 
 it makes Driv3r look good, and at this time, after forty or so seconds of piloting the vehicle, 
 I had reached boiling point. Make no mistake, while this game may contain some cool features, the 
 main mechanics are so broken or flawed it buries any potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornkrise
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: After about 15 hours or so you start getting tired of the bugs. But with version 2.0 
 out it cures a lot of the bugs. There is a lot to explore and there is a lot to buy but i recommend 
 you might not be impressed with it because if you don't really like rpg games this might not last 
 you long. The variety of cars is cool driving them isnt and getting them sure isn't fun either 
 you cant just jack people
  such as like in the GTA series. Altough the game is hard the setting is fun you choose who you 
 want to work for like the government, guerillas, bandits, etc. Graphics: The graphics are not really 
 next-gen but the bloom effects and jungle are nice and have a lot of creatures like snakes pumas 
 jaguars
  
  Sound: like what i said install the patch and it might help the sound otherwise its kinda weird.
 
  
  Value: overall i think its worth it price just dont go to far in value i say maybe look for it 
 in the highest of 15 amazon has it for 5 bucks right now
  
  TRY IF YOU WANT TO HAVE  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PG213
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 22, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  *EDIT: I finally managed to get Boiling Point running, without constant crashing and lockig up 
 my PC, so I changed my score and review accordingly.
  
  Though it is still rough on the edges, BP is a very great attempt to inovating the linear method 
 First Person Shooter games. Deep Shadows took a risk with bringing a hybrid FPS/RPG game, and where 
 very ambitious to do so as a young company, but I am very grateful they did. Wih Boiling Point 
 you can really live your shooter game and spent a very, VERY long time going about your business 
 in the world of realia.
  
  Boiling Point should be a really terrific game, seeing it's ambitious aspects, open ended world 
 and RPG type of adventuring and equipment management. The graphics are not bad, the missions are 
 cool and very diverse, the world is huge, free roam as it claims, and really gets you hooked up 
 pretty bad when you become part of it, but the bugs in this game where rather annoying
  
  I had re-installed this game a dozen of times, apploying the patches and tweaking the settings, 
 and still it had the annoying ability to crash and lock up my computer at seemingly random points. 
 I have a high end PC for games like this, and can easily play more demanding games at high settings 
 without problem. Maybe it's a problem with Radeon video cards, I don't know, but I was dissapointed 
 I could not seem to run this game more than 5 minutes. However when it runs, it is a great experience, 
 that gets you hooked very quickly, which is probably why it disapoints so much when it crashes.
 
  
  I was really looking forward to this game, and when I first installed I was excited to start playing 
 one of the most immersive games on the market at that day, but they really broke my heart when 
 I only got bug crashes, and fatal error.
  
  If you are lucky, which most people seem to be, this game won't run as bad on your PC as it did 
 on mine, but it seems there is no guarantee for that either.
  
  I hope they will not make the same mistake with White Gold, and bring a superb FPS/RPG hybrid that 
 will rock my world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imperator_zeus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 7, 2007 2:36 am PT
Review:  The game promised non-linearity, complexity, good story and stunning graphics. It succeded? Let's 
 find out.
  You are Saul Myers, a former soldier, who is heading for Realia (south America) to find is missing 
 doughter. The story isn't very original, but It maintains you captivante and is quite complex.
 
  At gameplay, the game rocks. You can drive, fly, eat, sleep, drink... and whatever pleases you! 
 Despite those, the most important thing in the game are the factions. They are 6 factions in the 
 game, where you can make pleanty of unique missions. This missions are very complex and they differ 
 from faction to faction. Also, your relation with those factions improve depanding on missions 
 and the mens you kill.
  Boiling Point world, Realia, its very huge and with lot of possibilities. You encounter cities, 
 jungle, caves, treasures, military bases and much more! Sadly, I have to remarc that the game has 
 somne bugs, but those won't ruine your game exprience.
  At graphics, the game looks very good. Varied landscapes, detalid textures and much more.
  Music 
 is good, but nothing special here.
  
  At the final, I must say that the game is unique. BUY the game, because with all the patches you 
 will not get more bugs and you can fully enjoy this wonderfull game. It's more complex that Morrowind, 
 Oblivion, Far Cry and Gothic. It RULZ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsunset327
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game has been severely bashed and overlooked by the gaming community. It is an open ended, 
 free roaming game set in South America. It has similarities to Morrowind and Oblivion in some aspects. 
 You are free to go where you want and do whatever you want most of the time. There are numerous 
 factions to join from CIA to Guerillas. You get experience with different types of weapons that 
 allow you to be better with them as well as modify them in terms of damage, ammunition, and size 
 of the clips. I admit it has a few bugs and some very difficult aspects. It is quite hard to get 
 from a boat to a dock without falling in the water which is pretty frustrating as the water is 
 pirahna infested in a few areas. You can learn to drive boats, fly helicopters, comandeer all types 
 of road vehicles. You also have consequences for your actions. If you shoot a random villager, 
 the cops will come and if you keep harassing them, the villagers might attack as well (like the 
 nade throwing grannies) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark_03
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 31, 2006 3:24 am PT
Review:  The Good: Innovative, ambitious design blends first-person shooter and role-playing game genres; 
 open-ended grand theft auto-style missions offer everything from fairly standard shooter assignments 
 to driving buses for spare cash; huge gameworld consisting of more than 240 square miles of south 
 american village and jungle, putting it on the same scale as grand theft auto: san andreas and 
 the elder scrolls iii: morrowind; alignment system lets you side with various factions, opening 
 up different mission strands and providing loads of replay value. Fun and unique gameplay which 
 no other pc game offering as much open ended gameplay maybe apart from oblivion or sand andreas.
 
  
  The Bad: Didn't use the patch still very playable but one of the most bugiest computer games out 
 their. Graphics and framerate are inconsistent.
  
  Fun enjoyable game offering endless hours of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Well.... I am sure you here the graphics are good but when up closer, they arent, first off. Dont 
 expect to interact with the enviorment or have treets drop leaves when you hit them with anything 
 from a bus to a 7.62 bullet. The AI and the way its used is about as good as the game itself, shoot 
 an old lonley woman in her room far from any people with a knife and somehow you walk outside and 
 people run from you and you are suddenly an enemy of the nation. Car pileups &amp; AI gettings 
 stuck are the begginning of reasons to uninstall the game really, and as far as the characters/all 
 other object aside from buildings &amp; cars go... they are closer to a 2D experience. The missions 
 are boring and dont really have any depth, Ex. drive a bus from point A to B and get money. It 
 takes ten minutes and isnt fun! other than Real-Time day/night &amp; the conecpt here.... there 
 just isnt much to hold on to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanbijl
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 11, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Boiling point reminds me of morrowind, its big, its somewhat fun at times, and it can be a real 
 pain in the butt sometimes as well.
  
  Ill start from the beginning, first of all, download all the patches to get the best of the game, 
 or else you will find a game cake full of bugs, and glitches and best yet, crashing galore.
  But even with the patches I still find this game hard to enjoy.
  
  Ill talk about the good 
 points first.
  Its a really big game, I havn't even started the first mission (because of crashing issues) and 
 after my 3 hours of the playing the game I have found this game to be fun, for a half an hour before 
 it crashes.
  to put it simple, its morrowind with cars, you roam around shooting stuff, and doing missions that 
 decide whose side your on. While I liked that little feature, it became annoying because after 
 every granny I ran over in the cities, I would have civillians shooting at me (its funny when a 
 granny shoots at you!) I found that highly unrealistic (after all on the site it does say it is 
 quite realistic... thats a load of bull...)
  Next to the npc's being weird, the game is nice to look at, nothing too fancy, if you can get the 
 graphics on high, they do look nice, BUT, good luck getting them higher than medium on a high end 
 card (some people can but Im unlucky) the game at best looks like crap when the graphics are low.
 
  
  But since this is a game that has alot I can deal with turning the graphics on low.
  The game is absolutly huge too, It has a streamless world with NO LOADING TIMES WHAT SO EVER! which 
 turns to be a mistake because thats why the thing crashes so often.
  
  I cant really explain much more of the game, because I spent most of my time with it trying to 
 tweak it to get it to actually go 10 minutes without putting me back to my desktop...
  
  If you dare to take a swing at this game (some people get it to run amazing, some dont) then go 
 ahead because it has some things that most games don't have... But besides that... avoid it if 
 you have anger issues because your game cd will be in the garbage can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kr00k3d
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  Boiling Point is a good game and brings a new unique perspective to open ended gameplay by making 
 it a 1st person game in which you can drive shoot and complete missions, not many side missions 
 but for over 20 hors of gameplay it is definately worth the download or purchase. it is definately 
 not better than far cry which is also a first person open ended type game with a massive wide open 
 area to roam around but you will enjoy this even with all the bugs that are in this you can easily 
 install the patch over the game which fixes the bugs. the system requirements are steep i have 
 a 512mb pc with radeon x300 series graphics card and 2.99ghz and this game runs slow on all settings 
 at a minimal so be sure to have a high spec pc before purchasing it. that is all for my review 
 so peace out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humorguy_basic
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 29, 2006 3:01 am PT
Review:  This is still a flawed classic. Some say Planescape: Torment is a flawed classic. Some say Beyond 
 Good and Evil is a flawed classic. Some say Vampire: Bloodlines is a flwaed classic. 'Flawed classic' 
 can sometimes just mean 'didn't sell'. Well Boiling Point hasn't sold well, but hasn't done badly 
 due to word of mouth and the more intelligent gamers realising open-ended games like this come 
 along so rarely, you have to give it a try.
  
  I have a 2ghz AMD Athlon, Igb Ram, fx5600XT card and this game runs as smooth as a puppy. Something 
 I cannot say for Oblivion, for example. With the 2.0 patch the game is more than managable and 
 can be thoroughly enjoyed in a way few games will let you (may be less than 10 games in 20 years 
 of PC gaming!)
  
  I will not repeat what the story is, etc. That is covered well enough in the above fair (1.0) review. 
 I will say that for games like this there need to be a slightly different reviewing structure. 
 In effect, having a 'second look' 6 months or a year later, with patches installed. Currently, 
 all the reviews in printed and web mags are the 1.0 game sans any patch. If you're considering 
 this game that's what your going to see. unless you search for reader reviews like this one you 
 will get a very wrong idea about the game. Quite simply, with the 2.0 patch applied, this is a 
 90% game! (I am going to score it as a 2.0 game too!)
  
  This game, like Planescape: Torment, will show you what type of gamer you are. If you need a game 
 to be bug free but confining rather than open-ended with bugs (all open-ended games have bugs, 
 Gothic, Morrowind, etc all have bugs) . Then you will miss out o some great RPG'ing. If you are 
 open-minded and understand the big picture with these type of games you will already have Boiling 
 Point, I would guess.
  
  So what type of gamer are you? Buy this game, even though it is still not perfect, and have one 
 of the best experiences you will have this or any year. Games like this have been released once 
 every 5 years in the past, but with less liklehood of EVER being published in the future. So give 
 it a try. You may end up enjoying the last free-form, open-ended, non-fantasy RPG on your PC! Just 
 look at the following list and tell me what else is out there like this?! You owe it to yourself 
 to get this game! RPG:
  
  - About 30 parameters that affect the player
  - Stats are raised when used, reduced when not used
  - There is no levelling up and no experience 
 points
  - Talk to NPC's and choose from multiple responses
  - Economic system allows for trade
  - Repair weapons and vehicles
  - Localised damage affects 
 the player in different ways: damage to arms affects shooting accuracy, legs affects movement speed 
 etc.
  - Inventory restricted by weight
  - The more you carry the slower you move - at full capacity you will hardly move and sway from 
 left to right as if completely drunk!
  - Dynamic relationship to the six confronting factions
  - Vehicle inventory
  - Vehicles can 
 be repaired and require fuel
  - Ability to hunt
  
  Action:
  
  - About 20 types of weapons
  - Weapons can be upgraded
  - Weapons can misfire
  - Weapons 
 can be repaired
  - Weapons have a rate of wear (linked to misfires)
  - Different bullets types
  - 12 types of car, motorcycle, helicopters, tank, boats, ships, plane, 
 digger etc.
  - Ability to work with explosives
  - Player actions = walk, run, crouch, prone, crawl, jump, swim
  - Vehicles have a damage model
 
  - People can be shot through car windscreens
  - Certain structures can be destroyed
  - Hit Calculation based on 6 zones: Head, torso, left/right leg, left/right arm
  - Thin surfaces 
 can be shot through
  
  Gameplay:
  
  - Absolute freedom of movement and action in the game world
  - Huge world - ~625 sq. km, progressive 
 loading with no "Loading..." screens
  - Talk to any character
  - Six confronting forces : Government, mafia, Bandits, CIA , FARC, Indians
  - Day/night cycles
 
  - Changing weather conditions
  - Vehicles require fuel
  - Hit calculation algorithm, various kinds of injuries
  - When shot in the leg, enemy will kneel 
 down and limp
  - High quality and varied A. I.
  - A. I. has virtual sight and hearing
  - NPC's are responsive to gunfire and objects thrown at them
  - NPC's can be distracted by unusual 
 sounds (thrown objects etc.)
  - Gamplay allows for stealth
  - You Can become addicted to drugs (changed to Synthetic Adrenaline - censorship) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connary
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 6, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  A great game lost in these times of general mediocrity. Yeah its a bugged game but it has a great 
 playability in opposition to the boring high tech games without content that invade us. 
  This game its really funny open game, It is really entertaining, with many surprises, intrigues, 
 plot lines and with an enormous heart of harcore rpg with action fps and a mature content. 
  All your decisions have an effect in your relations with the different gangs. 
  A really interesting 
 feature that always I wanted to see in a rpg. You can learn all kinds of things, from being able 
 to use and improve weapon up to leading helicopters. I remember to have played GTA and to think 
 about if it was rpg....'et voila' here you have.
  
  A real rpg (the one and only in this times) . 
  No grindind levels
  No elves and 
 orcs in a rpg
  You take ur way and u can make a mistake (lol, thats incredible)
  First person view great immersion
  
  The bugs are serious, though they allow to play 
 and the content is so good that you forget them rapidly. With patch v2.0 the game are so good....
 
  
  Harcore rpg gamer?? bored about the evil incomming in any form?
  Give a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 29, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Boiling point has a sweet game concept that could of gone somewhere if it wasn't for the long loads, 
 bad graphics, and irritating gameplay. The annoying install music didn't help either. While Boiling 
 point boasts a big world it is boring and has mostly deserted streets. While you can do side jobs 
 GTA style for money but gets repetitive and isn't very fun. BP feels like Postal in the jungle with 
 similar graphics and the feeling of doing what ever you want. Multiplayer is fun at times but player 
 models are pitiful just as in the single player game. Boiling point could have gone somewhere but 
 ends up short of an average FPS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: David0099
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 29, 2006 1:06 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is amazing, and the nature of the forest designs are breathtaking, but that is almost 
 the only googd about the game.
  
  The NPCs (Non-playable charachters) are the most lame i have ever seen in a game. if you ask them 
 the same questions, the respond with the same answer that the other passer-bys do
  
  And another "bad" thing about the game is that you CAN`T STEAL CARS!!!
  But i guess the car shop 
 would be useless if it was like that. But the good thing is that the car runs with gasoline in this 
 game, if you look at GTA-series and compare.
  
  Other than the negative things i said, its a good game that has many variates to finish the game, and 
 you can choose wich side you want to join
  
   and Indians, And the Bad: Bandits, Mafia and theGuerillas) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 12:23 am PT
Review:  I'm taking a break from Boiling Point to review it after having encountered a crash some 30 hours 
 into the campaign when I noticed that all my save games had become corrupted. Even with the 250 
 Mb patch applied there are still too many bugs around, the most annoying of them being the dropping 
 of sound from conversations. For now I put it back on ice, although I'll want to revisit it again. 
 The concept of the game is really refreshing but as stated many times before, the execution is 
 rather poor. 
  
  Other annoying features include your parked car sometimes vanishing into thin air (together with 
 the equipment you have stored inside it) if you leave it out of eyesight and then board another 
 vehicle, or the fact that the environment feels too static. For example, follow the eastern road 
 out of the capital and you will happen upon a military convoy being attacked by mafia. Every single 
 time you drive past this stretch of road there will be a similar ambush taking place. Patterns 
 get repetitive among the factions as well. Gameplay-wise it doesn't make that much difference which 
 factions you side with, as their bases are always of the same generic type. Unless you follow the 
 campaign the experience will be a bit bland, as your actions are having a negligible impact on 
 the gaming world.
  
  Boiling Point is a novel concept that unfortunately did not translate that well into a game. If 
 you want to try it, prepare for a bumpy ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sawchain
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 6, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  When I first started it up it all felt like a whole mess, I talked to a guy on the street and suddenly 
 there was like ten mission except from the main quest. But when I started to tangle m up it came 
 clear how it was working. 
  
  Ive been totally addicted to Morrowind before, and this game reminds me of it sometimes. Theres 
 the choice of factions, Fav. weapons, places to go and so on. And the best of it all, it seems 
 to be endless, I havent even started on the mainstory yet. And Im glued to it. 
  
  Well, its one of the better games Ive played for a while ! 
  
  There it is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 2.4
Date: Apr 7, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  **** game, What a waist of money and time!! Damn it, where I was looking, I thought this is a FPs. 
 but this is kinda mix of TPS and FPS, but in rallity this is rubbish!!! 
  Game runs good only in menu part, but in game running is just **** annoying and drove me nuts!!
 
  Dont waste your money man and women to this bloody game!! It will lose its meaning during first 
 part. You will just get disapointed am saying you!
  
  Game has a lot of buugy and rubish non sence stuff! I would recomend this game who wants to learn 
 to speak in english with latin american acsent!!!
  
  You word! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vojkan80001
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 31, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  I am not the biggest fan of FPS games, but this game somehow was different.
  This is not typical FPS game, there is more to it, some will like it , some wont.
  If i need 
 to describe this game in few words, then it sounds something like this, "Role Playing FPS, with 
 many quest, side quest and huge space to explore". Like i said this is not typical FPS. Instead of 
 just killing people, in this game you communicate with characters in game, finding clues in search 
 of your kidnapped doter and i must say i like it, i like the idea of this game. Unfortunately it 
 seemed like this game has some problems. It doesnt run smoothly and that can be frustrating!
  To finish this game, it takes a lot of time, if you dont try to rush it of course.
  If you like 
 Role Playing game you will like this game, if you are FPS fan, you probably wont because it wont 
 be what you expected.
  I think this game needs to be tested in worse case, i recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webchuzz
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  Lisa Myers is now a journalist and she is working in the local newspaper at Puerto Sombra (Bolivia) . 
 One day, she phones her father, asking for help, because something had happen. Lisa wanted her 
 dad to pick her up and take her with him. Saul Myers (dad) received the call from Lisa, and looked 
 like she was in great danger. In the middle of the conversation, Lisa is caught by a group of men 
 and drops the phone, hitting the ground. Saul gets worried about the situation and decides to go 
 to Puerto Sombra. While on his quest, we can see that sometimes his wife calls him, asking if he 
 already find Lisa and insulting him. Saul will try everything to find her daughter.
  
  Boiling Point is, in some way, simillar to San Andreas, due to the freedom that you have. This 
 game has a big map, where you can hang around. The majority part of this location is only deep 
 forests, where will appear snakes and other animals.
  
  Boiling Point is played on the firs person camera, possibilitating a better sightseeing of the 
 area. You can even talk with civilians and other people, asking questions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougsan
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I suggest you ignore the reported problems, get the game, upgrade your drivers and play, play, 
 play. I do believe the developers have pushed the envelope of fun further than any other FPS I 
 have played - ever. You have to understand your character and the characters with whom you associate. 
 You can develop your character into a major jungle fighter or remain a good fighter with few honed 
 talents. You must understand and practice the art of diplomacy. You can explore a TRULY VAST area 
 on foot, in various types of automobiles (all of which have very unique handling characteristics) , 
 by plane, helicopter (multiple types) and by boat (two different types) and also by tank! You can 
 amass a small fortune and own your own dandy sports car and personal helicopter. You can make as 
 many enemies as you choose and kill hundreds of them (including as a hit man and a mass murderer) 
 or you can on and off again friendly or neutral relationships and kill only as a last resort.
 
  
  You can do so, so much and still find more things to do, more people worth meeting and more ways 
 of travelling.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Payasoplas
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  This game is a good option, but first you must patch and update it to version 1.1 (patch 2 also 
 works perfect for the US release, so go for it) , is like a mix of GTA, with some of Deus EX, and 
 with scenarios of Far Cry.
  
  There's a lot of freedom, you can do anything you want, you could even become an alcoholic, help 
 an old lady to cross the street or be part of an intense firefight.
  
  The game has a main storyline wich is very interesting, it has the main objective to rescue your 
 daughter that was kidnapped in Realia, a south american fictitious country, but also has a alternate 
 main objective wich is to look for the fragments of XENUS, a a rare relic that was broken.
  
  For the graphics the game is very demanding and system requirements are very high, this makes 
 you think that people like me with a low end computer would never run it but...
  
  I can't believe it, I can run this game with good framerate, 1024*768*32bit color, with medium 
 detail level, with an Athlon XP 1.7Ghz, 512 Mb RAM, and a GeForce Fx 5200 256Mb RAM, and there's 
 people with a lowest computer thata could run this game even better, you can tweak this game and 
 make it playable, and believe me it's worth.
  
  The bad news is thast sound is very bad, even if you have a good machine for some reason the game 
 doesn't sound right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_kosta
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 7, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  They say that attention to the small details makes the difference between a good and bad game. 
 In Boiling Point i think the big problem is the lack of polish, sometimes it seems that you are 
 playing a beta version of a game. It's true that the patch ver. 2 solved some of the problems, 
 but even so the game seems unfinished. If you are the type of gamer that likes perfection, the 
 best thing is to avoid this game, but if you are willing to ignore some of the games flaws this 
 game could be a very rewarding experience. In the end Boiling Point could have been a real masterpiece 
 but the lack of attention to details makes this just a ambitious game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chi-You-Man
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Ok, i give fair reviews i think. I'm a big FPS fan and i have every gta ever made... so when a game 
 like this comes along i'm amazed!!.
  I have half life2, Call of duty, and most of the other famous FPSs, and this should be up there with 
 them. I only wish atari would have spent a bit more time on it, as it can be a bit dodgey at times, but 
 that does not spoil its fun.
  The vehicles are fun to control, including planes, helicopters and even buses if you get a job. Get 
 drunk ,take drugs do anything you can imagine in this 450squarekm of gameplay. I think people do 
 not like it because it demanding. My pc works well enough to run it pretty well, but no matter what 
 the box says you need at least 1gb of RAM, i think i have 1.3 gb or something, well anyway it is 
 worth getting if your pc can take it, atari should have finished it first though. The story is cool 
 and the graphics are smooth.
  So if you see it pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themesmith
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 17, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  This game could have been alot better the sound is terrible and I could never get the patches to 
 install I almost liked this game im glad I only paid 20 bucks
  the game is like grand theft auto for most parts the graphics are a little dated so save your money 
 and buy something else as for the boiling point thats what you will be doing if you buy this game 
 my system is fast but there are way to many problems with this game I'll admit I played it a couple 
 of days but the lock up and crashing drove me nuts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: durrty2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  In this game you play as Saul Myers, a divorced former Foreign Legion soldier. His daughter gets 
 kidnapped. So its his job to save her, armed with only a little cash and a gun he sets out to south 
 America. This is a unique FPS game with elements of GTA put into it. After playing this game for 
 a couple of hours. I was surprised it was good, this is a huge open ended free roaming game where 
 you choose to go where you want and generally do what ever the hell you like. The game features 
 somewhat 300 square kilometers of land many towns, bases and not a single loading screen. Which 
 is pretty sweet. Theres also vehicles ranging from cars, boats, tanks, copters. You can also learn 
 new skills as you progress and buy weapon upgrades. The bad side of this game is that you need 
 a fairly high end system to run with all the eye candy which is to say average and it contains 
 full of bugs. But nothing a patch wont fix. This game flat out rocks and you should definitely 
 try it out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemmys_beard
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 11, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  its a really nice game with only a few problems that i came across. high in combat and action, 
 just what a growing gamer needs!
  
  my only concerns are.....
  
  1. its resource hungry ie video card and ram (ma poor machine couldnt hack it with radeon9550 256m 
 and a 2gig page file)
  2. even with the patch theres still bugs ie being shot thru a wall or seen while under cover! 
 
  3. scenery disappeares periodically ie getting out of car and falling thru graphics
  
  other than that its a damn fine product, could have been longer for my taste and they should shoot 
 the testers! give me the job! hopefully there'll be some tag on levels or missions in the "ghost 
 recon" vein
  
  nice game, shame about the bugs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:35 am PT
Review:  This game boasts a massive enviroment with lots of missions and side quests, loads of NPCs, vehicles, 
 and map to explore.
  
  Theres a whole jungle to get lost in and the odd city/town/village.
  
  However this game was 
 highly unstable and in many ways felt very unfinished. One of the annoying aspects like the game 
 crashing or the frame rate slowing up because my computer was trying to load the whole map, was 
 stupid.
  
  Even in the menu screen my computer slows up because its loading enviroment. Dont get me wrong, 
 i dont hav e awee dinky computer, i was boasting 1GB ram and a top Radeon card and fast processor 
 here, but to no avail, this game would still be buggered from start to finish.
  
  In anycase the game had rubbish cutscene graphics and TERRIBLE voice acting, but the most funniest 
 and best bit of all is the installation screen's music! Its something Carlos Santana would be proud 
 of! LOL!
  
  Graphically its actually pretty standard, another worse aspect though is the AI which was for HUMAN 
 AI, RUBBISH... they would stand there looking at you as you enter a military base with a large machine 
 gun.... then when you finnally shoot on guy, THEN they get all crazy!
  
  Unfinished game in many aspects, seems rushed and lazy program design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SupaDupaR
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 5, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  Since the beginning of pc games, I've been waiting for a game like this.
  The PS2 had the GTA serie games,
  The Nintendo had the Super Mario series,
  And the pc had 
 nothing. 
  
  All that we had was games, but this one seemed as if it would change all that.
  It wasn't no 
 ordinary game, it had the freedom of GTA, loads of guns, great superB graphics, and much more.
 
  I truly coulnd't wait untill it was out!
  
  Then it came out. *Dark Dooming undertone*
  Its graphics truly amazed me. A GTA game with so much beauty, it had to be a success.
  But it 
 wasn't. 
  
  The story is great.
  The graphics are also great.
  So is the amount of weapons, NPC's and so on.
  But...
  the gameplay isn't. The game is LOADED 
 with bugs.
  And with loaded, i mean it has got TONS of 'm.
  You start the game, play, and after 2 minutes, the game finds a bug and shuts itself down.
  In 
 those 2 minutes, you'll be a happy man if you have gotten any futher than the first city! 
  Well, filled with good hope, started again (by the way, way to long loading times : ( )
  But, 
 the game finds another bug and the whole story begins again.
  I've tried the newest patch for the game and still, still it has bugs.
  
  This is a great game, 
 but the bugs make it suchs a unbelievable **** game.
  To the people i say, don't buy it.
  To Atari/Deep Shadows I say, make a Boiling Point 2, without the bugs :) then everybody is happy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nr_1
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:11 am PT
Review:  You can understand that i had high expectations on this game after reading all the crap the developers 
 had written while promoting this, that it was ground breaking graphics, intense fighting, great 
 sound and a huge world to walk around in. The game is about an ex soldier coming to look after 
 his daughter that has diaspeard in Bolivia and the games objectiv is to find his her although thers 
 many ways to do that and 100s of side missions, theirs also several factions that you can become 
 freinds with or enemies, the factions are among others civilans, the government, the guerrilla 
 and the mafia. Well, the world is pretty big, but it is to big, theres 2 citys in the game and 
 you often have to drive from one another because of missions and such, it takes around 15 - 20 
 minutes just to drive between these cities witch rather a penalty to the game then it is good. 
 The graphics leave much to be desired and the sound is the most worthless of all, the fighting 
 is pretty boring and not intense at all. And so to the biggest problem, the bugs, the game crashes 
 regularly and is sometimes simply unplayable and you wonder what made the developers think this 
 was ready to send to the stores. It had the prospects of being great but instead its boring and 
 buggy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_ferret123
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 3:47 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game at best buy about at 1:30, and i finished playing it (not even doing the story) , 
 at 5:00. ok enough of the time frame of when i first played it, but no seriously this game is so 
 addicting, its like crack, that has beautiful graphics, and an intuitive, non-linear way to beat 
 the game. ok the first thing that is most important to get out here is that yes, this is free-roam, 
 and yes its set in the rainforest. there are aboundenses of animals like tigers, snakes, phirranhas, 
 these huge fish (dont know what they are) but i thought to myself. yes finally they made a game 
 that you hunt for your food useing the animals and your enviroment around you. the story, you can 
 finish in many diffrent ways, so this makes this game very non-linear. you create factions with 
 the people around you. so if you were going to do a mission for the mafia, you would have to steal 
 documents from the government, which means the cops, and the government of bolivia and the us will 
 be against you, and vice versa. these strongly affect your passage throught the somewhat pointless 
 story, but it still breaths fresh air on the genre. this is a first person GTA, with many other 
 things to make this a spicy adventure. the vehicles are very cool to use but they are sorta unfair, 
 u see, u have to buy them, and if you lose your cars you get at the beginning, you have to buy 
 a new one, or walk, or kill someone to get one, then you ruin there realationship with that faction. 
 so this game is great, but if you dont mind the difficulty, and the long loads, and soe slowdown. 
 this is very enjoyable, and deserves to be part of you PC library 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer9965
Rating: 3.6
Date: Dec 8, 2005 10:04 am PT
Review:  Unfourtuantely this game is poor...
  
  Before this game was released, my friend and i (rossy02) were outstanded about what this game would 
 offer us when it got released.
  
  Oh how wrong we were
  
  What we recieved was a slab of a game filled with bugs, yes it did have good ideas, but the devlopers 
 could not pull it off. The graphics are unfinished and the models are well ....., anyway the gameplay 
 was ok to start with, but the amoutn of buggy things really did ruin it.
  
  Oh how wrong we were....
  
  MORAL: Don't get hyped up on the Hype! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IREDGE
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 10, 2005 2:52 pm PT
Review:  The day I saw boiling point on the shelves I thought I was up for a refreshing experience. The 
 graphics on the back of the box looked great, and I had heard some exiting previews talking about 
 a Deux ex like gameplay were you would be totaly free to do watever you like. So, there I went, 
 without a second thought, throwing my money on it thinking that I wasn't going to regret it. 
 
  How could I be so wrong?
  After a lousy two hours of gameplay experiencing various types of crashes, glitches, bugs and day 
 long loading times... I put it on a shelf in my flat where it hasn't move from since or maybe.... once 
 when I tried to install the two patches which never made any difference. 
  Maybe when the 5th patch will be out I will give it a chance.... but by then there will surely be 
 some much better games to sink my hungry teeth into. Games, that the developers will have taken 
 the time to polish or at least finish.
  Useless!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pehota
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2005 10:16 am PT
Review:  The game is fine, i dont understand those people who already claimed Boiling Point as a garbage. 
 They definitely havent played it long enough to understand the full idea of the game. Of course 
 BP has some technical problems, but i really like it as a new type of game in out cyber net. There 
 is no levels, you just play it until you get to some final result. 
  
  Gave gives you a lot of reality, like guns get jammed, snakes, bees attacking you while in jungle, 
 relations with MAFIA GURILLAS, POLICE ect all of it is a great idea! THE Game deserves applause. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brealeygp
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 24, 2005 1:19 pm PT
Review:  wow, what a game. It has all many people could want, a 1st person non linial shoot em up adventure 
 set in South America. But thats what the box tells u, & thats all it is. While that may seem good, 
 each part of what has just been said is in itself a negetive in context. Its 1st psn, meaning unlike 
 in GTA where the camera can move in different modes all around u, in boiling point u always have 
 something (usually a weapon) taking up a good chunk of the screen & when u pick up some objects 
 they just hover infront of you. Its non-linial... to the extent that its just not compelling enough 
 to play on. Sure there is a story, but the cutscenes are few & far between & not worth their weaight 
 in salt. Its a shoot em up, but theres only so many times i can shoot a "gringo" before i cant 
 see the point anymore. The adventure, is there, but its hard to find & accomplish as are some of 
 the tasks. Finally, since its in S. America, instead of lush urban landscapes there are 2towns & 
 miles of repetative jungle, beautiful in real life, but just dull in a game. Add to this a repetitive 
 soundtrack (not very atmospheric) ; poor vehicle controls; nice but glitchy graphics (one mission 
 where u have to shoot down a plane; u see that plane fly overhead again & again from the same direction 
 until u finally shoot it down... it just bugged me) ; annoying & unrealistically weak NPC civillians; 
 a stats screen that doesnt seem to mean anyhting; & a strange horizen where although the scenery 
 stretches for miles, NPCs & cars appear from nowhere leave this game with many problems, most of 
 which could well have been solved had Atari kept it off the production lines just a few monts longer. 
 While it does have some good points; noteably its ranking system with the multiple factions in 
 the game; none come close to saving it from the annuls of average. Potential abound, but potential 
 untapped, it deserves your attention, but no further then the back of the box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero-nine
Rating: 4.2
Date: Oct 23, 2005 11:46 am PT
Review:  Ok first thing I must say: Atari, fire your programmers. This game has more bugs than a Mexican 
 hotel room. It just doesn't feel right. The graphics, the sound, the gameplay; it's all a bit mediocre. 
 The creators of boiling point have tried to go beyond games like GTA or BF. More weapons, more 
 land to explore, more cars and more elements to make a cool and interesting game. And they have 
 managed to have failed all. Because in this case: More is less. 
  
  They gameplay is stiff. The graphics are choppy and the models are really bad. The sound in this 
 game is just ridiculous, it's out of sync, cheap and choppy. This game just feels like they wanted 
 to make a great game but ran out of money without having the time to finish the game. 
  
  I can't imagine that somebody would have the guts to sell this product. I know I wouldn't. It's 
 just embarrassing and that for a company like Atari who has been around for a long time. This game 
 was a serious waste of my money and time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: r1crawford
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 17, 2005 2:28 am PT
Review:  I'll update this review later as I'm still only playing the game, but this is more a review to 
 comment on the bugs and if the game is still worth buying.
  
  The answer in my opinion is a definite yes. This game would normally get a 3.0 from GS and probably 
 lower from me, but the open gameplay and the ability to roam as you wish, makes for a compelling 
 game.
  
  The bugs are well documented in the GS review and then some! You must have the patches!!! Playing 
 without them is not worthwhile, and even with them I can see some players not enjoying the game.
 
  
  But for me this game is fantastic, and it bodes well for the future of FPS's. If the bugs can be 
 fixed and a better story premise (another merc tale zzzzz......) can be implemented, then we have 
 a game that will rival the GS score for GTA: SA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InaneBasura
Rating: 2.4
Date: Oct 13, 2005 8:18 am PT
Review:  I bought it, installed it, played it and vomited a little bit through all kinds of orifices, some 
 of which I didn't even know vomit could come out of.
  
  You start out by being... err... some guy, I forgot his name. He's played by the actor in the Mummy 
 though, at least on the boxart. Anyway... His daughter has been kidnapped so of course you have 
 to travel to this fictional country called... Realia!! HAHAHAhAHAhahaha! Oh.. hmm... ok. You step 
 of the bus and before you lies all kinds of possibilities. It's structured a bit like a mixture 
 between Deus Ex and Morrowind. Interact with people... somewhat freely while you roam around the 
 country and solve problems however you want. By doing missions for the different factions featured 
 in the game you get payed. You can spend this money in a number of different ways. Buy weapons, 
 ammo, a car, get healed by the local doctor (though he's such a greedy bastard I usually just kill 
 the ****** instead) or, buy some alcohol and get drunk! So as you can imagine the concept is a 
 bit intriguing and some of the ideas are fun and some actually work. But it's too bad
  
  THE REST OF IT SUCKS UNIMAGINABLY!
  
  If you want it to run well as well as not look like the 
 brown stuff coming out of dogs you'll need some kind of supermachine the game was specifically 
 optimized for. Cause on my PC it did not only look like dogcrap, but ran like it as well. Low-Medium 
 settings with a 6800GT, amongst other things, and an extremely poopy framerate. And the thing is 
 it doesn't even look that good with everything maxed out.
  
  Then we have the AI, which put simply, does not exist. You'll only notice sporadic signs of life 
 when it bugs out. Like suddenly running away and getting lost in a temple so you can't complete 
 the damn mission.
  
  On to the physics. I'd rather not, but well... For a game set out to offer attention to detail 
 and realism in all those details and set in a country named Realia (FFS!) vehicles having the physics 
 of a cardboardbox sliding down the frozen surface of a deceased elephants back makes little sense 
 does it not? Driving one is torture and makes you wanna swallow your keyboard in disgust. You can't 
 though. It'd had been better, and more fun, if they had camels and **** you could commandeer instead. 
 At least then you'd know they weren't trying to make a realistic game but failing as miserably 
 as only someone completely miserable could. Like me trying to explain how miserably they failed.
 
  
  Shooting things... Sound.... Music... Oh and everything else I can and can't think of is a simple, 
 basic, dull buggy mess. It's a nice concept but horribly executed in almost every single way. I'm 
 not gonna list all of them since I'd probably die of old age before I could hit "submit" button. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d0ggey
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 20, 2005 3:58 pm PT
Review:  well this one the worst games i have ever played the people run around like headless chickens and 
 when they scream it just sounds stupid and the guns, the guns are no fun to use and this is supposed 
 to be a FPS! I mean you shoot and half of your bullets are duds and your enemies can blast away 
 at you with no problem while your just shooting duds. This game also has an amazing amount of bugs 
 that used to only happen when i played on the playstation 1, let me explain what happened it was 
 a nice day and i was walking, about to go to my next mission when i fell through the floor! What 
 i recomend is that you leave this game on the shelf, put your hands in the air and slowly back 
 away from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corpand
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 7, 2005 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Now, if youre a fan of Deus Ex or any other RPG/FPS game, you will pretty much know what Boiling 
 Point: Road To Hell is all about.... or will you? Lets find out
  
  This game is truly something unique. It is so different, so creative, so buggy, that you will sometimes 
 be confused as to what you are doing or what you are supposed to be doing. Nevertheless, an ambitious 
 game like this should never be missed out upon. Boiling Point blends the action of a FPS, the RPG 
 elements of games like Deus Ex (but MUCH more advanced) and is placed smack down in a Jungle where 
 you will live out in a huge world, full of secrets, people, animals and more. 
  
  Gameplay: This game is unique. the second you start playing it, you will realize its unique. It 
 contains some of the most revolutionary elements that have made games like Morrowind a sight to 
 behold. From weather effects to complete freeform gameplay, Boiling Point will entice you and excite 
 you every step of the way..... until the shoddy programming and killer bugs get in the way. And 
 sadly, they WILL get in the way. The AI of the game is pretty horrible, as enemies run into trees 
 and hardly take cover when youre shooting at them. The game crashes, even after it has been patched, 
 and many things like bad text translations and weird abnormalities will get in the way of the game.
 
  
  Graphics: For what its worth, this game is beautiful on the outside, but on the inside, its a huge 
 resource hog and contains textures that only a programmer could love. Some of the effects like 
 weather and such are welcome additions to the game, but the character faces and overall gameplay 
 textures arent up to this year's standards at all. Still, the game's map looks beautiful and contains 
 no loading times in between travelling through it.
  
  Sound: Not bad, but defenately not good either. To me, the sound was the least spectacular. Guns 
 sound junky, voice acting is horrible, and some noises (like the humm of a car) can get pretty 
 repetitive and ridiculous after a while. Even the music is strange as it plays at random moments 
 in the game while all the other time, its silent.
  
  Overall: If you are a gamer who enjoys new concepts for games and are willing to face many bugs 
 in a game, then Boiling Point is for you. For the rest, I think its worth a shot, but expect to 
 be slightly dissapointed at specific aspects of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonny_reb
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 11, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I had never heard of boiling point before until I saw it in a store and later looked it up and 
 found out it was a hybrid FPS and RPG I decided to buy it hoping for a new and original game. To 
 my surprise it turned out to be awesome. The game is very much like GTA meets Deus EX and I think 
 that's what the developers were going for and they pulled it off pretty well. When it comes to 
 game play its very open ended and gives the player a chance to do what ever they want and who to 
 align with. While the main objective is to find your daughter but you can put it off and spend 
 around 40 hours just doing side missions. The problems are that a lot of glitches come up that can 
 be pretty annoying. Also the firefights are only OK for FPS's (mainly because of bad AI) but they 
 are still fun. The graphics are very pretty and so are the effects but when it comes to sound there 
 are many problems like NPC's repeating their lines or talking to low plus the sound may cut off 
 at different points. The overall sound quality is still good. When the sound is working properly 
 it's very good. 
  
  Overall this is probably a game that deserved more advertising and could have been better with 
 more polish but people should still get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isoplus
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 13, 2005 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This game has sooo much potential it is almost shameful this tittle was released without being 
 more polished (or tested) . 
  
  This is not a regular FPS on open terrain. It has RPG like stat system (for weapon skills, vehicles, 
 etc.. kinda like Deux EX or System Shock) . It is very interesting system when working properly.
 
  
  Graphics are varied... The terrain can be absolutely beautiful with all details turned high, but 
 that's just it, you really can't turn all options to high and expect to play this one without being 
 frustrated. If you are used playing latest tittles in highest details (my rig : AMD64 1gig dual 
 DDR400, BFG6800GT OC, Audigy2) , well, this game will make your system run like a 386 machine (pre-pentium 
 era) . This game is a absolute resource hog. Poor coding I'm sure... Character animations are nothing 
 special and NPC faces are not so varied...
  
  Sound is broken... Weapon and environment sounds are sub-par. There is this annoying sound hic-up 
 sometimes, and all characters scream in the same voices (regardless of age and sex) .
  
  This game is definitely not finished... and almost makes me want to scream "What a waste of good 
 gaming concept...!!!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jun 7, 2005 7:07 am PT
Review:  I was eagerly awaiting this title given the scope and dynamics of the world. However, it was only 
 to be severely disappointed after installation and few hours of gameplay.
  
  I was forced to re-install the game multiple times after severe crashes, which rendered it unplayable. 
 When I finally did manage to launch it and spend some time playing, I only found the game crashed 
 regularly to the point that it locked up the entire O/S and I was forced to reset. This all occured 
 on a stock PC AMD 4000+ with an X800XT PE, 1GB RAM, and XP Pro. I tested the title on another PC 
 to give the developer the benefit of the doubt, but as expected I experienced similar issues. I 
 did attempt to tweak the game setting and video settings and swap out drivers, but that did little. 
 When I finally did manage to get in a bit of play time I encountered numerous bugs ranging from 
 loss of sound to problems with loading.
  
  The developers had a novel concept in mind by building a seamless world with rpg/action style gameplay, 
 but they failed miserably by putting it out in it's current state. This game is without a doubt 
 still in the beta phase and most certainly not ready for retail. The numerous reviews I've read 
 on-line detailing the technical issues are proof alone of that. 
  
  If you're considering this title do yourself a favor and wait until it hits the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vandalvideo
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 30, 2005 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Lately, many games have began to adopt the whole Sand Box Theory, that all games with freedom do 
 well on the market. I mean, with so many good examples as Morrowind and GTA, who could fail? Well 
 Deep Shadows tried making one of those sand box games, and they spat out this game called "Boiling 
 Point". This game attempts to take the gritty South American drug lord thing and combine it with 
 a freedom that would drive Michael Moore nuts. Through the games gameplay, sound, and graphics 
 it attempts to place you into a world of its creating.
  
  The first thing you notice, while installing the game, is the games sound score. Now I never liked 
 Spanish music, and the fact that one of the corniest songs I have ever heard was playing over and 
 over during the install just began to make me think, "oh god, the whole game better not be like 
 this." Well, to my displeasure, it was. The game doesn't support 5.1 channels SS or above, which 
 kicked me in the balls when I got around to play it. The game's sound constantly keeps crackling 
 out and drowning off into some abyss of nothing. This can get frustrating while having a conversation 
 with an npc. 
  
  After the initial shock of the music, you are introduce to the game's storyline. The intro shows 
 much of what the game has to offer. The graphics are subpar, but the overall size of the game makes 
 you feel like its ok. Because of the game's massive size, your computer may sputter a few times, 
 spitting spark flavored vocabulary in your direction. The game's graphics are similar to an archaic 
 form of Far Cry. It tries its best to make up for with the size, but thats the games largest enemy, 
 because it constantly is laiden with unsightley bugs.
  
  The final thing in the game is the actual gameplay. Now don't get me wrong, I love open ended gameplay. 
 But there are so many options, and so much to do I constantly found myself going around running 
 over old ladies trying to sell oranges for kicks. This made me digress from the overall story, 
 and the constant stuttering kept making me crashing me cars into the water. This made me restart 
 my game over and over. A few times, when I actually did get into the game, there would be a critical 
 error, and I would remember, "By god I didn't save!" If this is the PC's answer to GTA, they did 
 a shotty job.
  
  Overall, the game suffers from a lot of bugs. Deep Shadows, a new gaming company, just reared back 
 and placed this steaming pile of crap in our sand box. The game itself can be great, if you can 
 look past all the unsightly bugs scattered everywhere. There are random fixes around the internet 
 you can find, but without these the game is practically unplayable. It falls flat on all its attempts 
 to be a good game. Buy with extreme caution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taopix
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 25, 2005 6:35 am PT
Review:  well, maybe not. this game's like troika's vampire: the masquarade- bloodlines, combining FPS action 
 with quite impressive RPG element. but sadly, it's full of bugs and not enough polish. sure the 
 level's HUGE (25x25km) with no loading time, the weather effect is cool, and the weapons modelling's 
 great it could rival the one's on S. T. A. L. K. E. R. , but you really need a very high end machine 
 to see these things in action. (i have a pt4 2.8ghz, radeon 9800pro 128mb & 1024ram and the game 
 plays quite well with medium settings)
  enough with the graphics, on with the gameplay! i think this game got very HUGE content, you can 
 do a lot of weapons modification, driving, shooting, and the health system's cool too, like when 
 you got shot in the leg, you would never die by that damage, instead you'll start to limp around 
 when you move. got shot in the arm, your aim's going berserk and that kind of stuff. the weapon's 
 system quite interesting too like if you use it frequently it would wear out resulting in jamming 
 and stuff. the world is very open ended (very much like GTA series) and they have this 'faction' 
 system going on (like mercenaries) . if you do a job for like the goverment, against the mafia, 
 your actions would affect your relationship with both of the faction. if your an acquaintance, 
 you got better price for medicine, weapons etc and if you're neutral/enemy the price would be higher, 
 and they might also shoot you in sight if your relationship with them were not so good. and i see 
 a lot of oppurtunity in replayability just like GTA.
  through out the game, you would be performing more submission (for money and weapon) than the main 
 mission coz' if you want to advance in the main mission, you got to have money, lots of 'em! and 
 that actually makes the game more challanging and you'll be advancing the main story in a very 
 slow progress, sometimes you forget about the main mission coz' you'll be spending a lot of you 
 play time doing crazy missions like stealing, assasination, escort, and all that blow-thing-up 
 stuff.
  it's very unfortunate for the game to have lots of tiny bugs here and there coz' it disturbs the 
 emersion and fun factor, but regardless, it's still very ambitious, and quite good too. this is 
 not your ordinary FPS. some would hate it, some would enjoy it, like me. and i suggest you wait 
 for a patch first before buying this. oh i forgot, there's no multiplayer out-of-the-box, but the 
 developer said that they'll ship that in the coming patch. i hope they do that FAST! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 24, 2005 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Since this game is out in UK, i tell you to hold on to your money, the game has something in it 
 which needs a mega high performance PC, even though i got a 2,8 ghz, 1000 RAM, and Geforce 6800 
 ultra graphics card, i still aint able to run my settings and graphics on high
  
  There are many bugs in the game, since people walking by are carrying bags and they suddenly apear 
 moving half though the GrOunD !1 ? l
  
  As well as that, the game seems on endless drive to nowhere, do this do that get money walk for 
 20 mins get back and find u got ur gun Unholsted and they kill you, So, where do i go from here, 
 restart after 1 hr of gameplay or do i carry on for another hour trying to find some other job 
 to do a total bore again, really none of this leads to finding your daughter eventually do though, 
 i mean EVEnTuAllY
  
  Never the less the game has TONS of stuff to conclude liek Drugs 100 types, cars, buying tyres, 
 Petrol, Food over like 5 million stuff  ? ? ?  etc etc ........... oh and of course GUns, but u 
 can drive cars and speed boats to Big boats, still alot of gameplay to achieve that, which seems 
 a bore to spend ages just to get this and that and this DUH
  Good idea of a game seems they the wrong stuff in, maybe another Mafia game would of done the trick
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
