-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Braveheart
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/braveheart/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  3, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.1
Critic Score: 5.2, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 74 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Red Lemon Studios
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jul 31, 1999
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite its intriguing premise, Braveheart's assorted play mechanics coexist about as peacefully 
 as the Scottish clans depicted in the game. 

 Braveheart is a perfect example of how an ambitious game design can end up being something of a 
 double-edged sword. It combines strategic empire building with real-time 3D combat and takes place 
 in late 13th-century Scotland, the same setting as the Mel Gibson movie. However, despite its intriguing 
 premise, Braveheart's assorted play mechanics coexist about as peacefully as the Scottish clans 
 depicted in the game.  

 Your goal is relatively simple: As the leader of one of 16 major clans, you must unite the others 
 in order to stave off the invading English army. However, accomplishing that goal is rather difficult, 
 even on the easiest setting. You do most of your work within the game's turn-based clan-management 
 interface. Here you can monitor every aspect of your clan, including your territories, towns, armies, 
 caravans, and spies. You begin the game with a single territory, a pair of armies, and a pair of 
 leaders. From these humble beginnings, you must extend your influence through diplomacy and warfare 
 (but mostly warfare, as you might expect from a game boasting a 3D combat engine) .  

 Leader units can not only lead an army into battle, but also take on a variety of special missions. 
 Without a leader, armies are limited to guard duty, ambushes, patrols, or training. With a leader, 
 an army can engage in full-fledged battles and undertake an array of diplomatic missions and covert 
 operations, most of which can help make your campaign run a lot more smoothly. For example, you 
 can kill an enemy leader to weaken opposing armies, or march into an enemy clan's territory and 
 demand its unconditional surrender.  

 Missions of this sort are assigned from the turn-based interface. From here, you can also micromanage 
 each of your towns: how much food each should produce, what type of weapons to craft, and what 
 extra buildings and fortifications to construct. The people in your towns also have a happiness 
 rating, which is easy to manage as long as you keep everyone fed. Trade caravans are important 
 to your clan's economic prosperity, though controlling them tends to be a painful exercise in micromanagement. 
 In fact, the process is so clunky, and the automatic control of caravans is so effective, that 
 you'll wonder why manual control is even an option.  

 Micromanagement is the crux of the turn-based game. You must keep an eye on your clan's daily routine 
 every turn. You have to continually send scouts to explore neighboring territories since you can't 
 automate the process, and apparently know next to nothing about the surrounding lands. You have 
 to keep sending spies to rival towns and then recall them a few days before they get captured - 
 and then send them out again so your information remains fresh.  

 If you use the game's continuous time mode, the strategy interface updates itself in pseudo-real-time 
 fashion. Unfortunately, this mode doesn't deactivate as described. Instead of simply hitting the 
 continuous time key again, you have to keep clicking on a button to stop the process and regain 
 manual control of your little empire. Since Braveheart moves along at an otherwise slow pace, continuous 
 time mode should have been a good feature; but the awkward on/off process makes it more annoying 
 than helpful.  

 Army management is also difficult, since your troops will grow restless and desert you after extended 
 periods of inactivity or boring duty, such as guard detail. This is no big deal early on, but as 
 you move further into the game and have dozens of armies and towns to manage, weeding out the discontent 
 becomes problematic. Of course, you can simply disband your army and return all the troops to the 
 nearby town's peasant pool. Then, you can take those peasants right back out of the pool, arm them 
 with the same weapons, and create a new army that's pleased as punch to be on duty. The new army 
 might not be the seasoned veterans they once were, but at least they won't desert. Of course, the 
 other way to liven up your armies is to send them into battle. This won't always make them happy 
 campers, but you'll at least get some use out of them while they're around. Battles occur whenever 
 you enter an enemy town or are on a diplomatic mission and opt to attack.  

 At this point, the game halts and loads up its 3D combat engine. This usually takes about a full 
 minute on fast machines, so you can forget about smooth transitions. Once in the 3D view, you can 
 control your troops much like you would in Myth or any other real-time strategy game. You can control 
 a lot of troops at once in Braveheart, as well as some pretty cool siege engines, but be warned 
 that even on a fast system the game will slow to a crawl when the real action starts.  

 Although Braveheart lets you set your troops in various formations, most of these mean nothing in 
 battle, since your troops won't stay in formation when they move anyway. In fact, one of the game's 
 most disappointing aspects is the fact that battles usually end in a massive free-for-all. In most 
 cases, he who has the most troops wins. Of course, archers help, but since you can't see the enemy 
 until they're very close, they rarely have enough time to deal serious damage before they also 
 begin hitting your own melee troops. There are times when a small group of veterans can hold its 
 ground against a larger enemy force, but these are few and far between.  

 Another problem is the fact that you must typically seek out your foe, with absolutely no clue as 
 to which direction you should travel over the rolling 3D terrain. Some might call this fog of war, 
 but when you march into an enemy town with the express purpose of conquering it, you might at least 
 know where that town is. In most cases, you can avoid this problem by standing still and waiting 
 for your enemy to come find you, but this is yet another work-around that detracts from the overall 
 experience.  

 The 3D combat sequences also suffer from poor camera controls, which are much less intuitive and 
 far more disorienting than Myth's. At least the graphics themselves are nice; units are neatly 
 rendered, fight valiantly, and even die dramatically. The weather effects and terrain look good 
 as well, though the trees look terrible.  

 Braveheart's multiplayer is pretty solid, though it only supports the 3D combat portion of the game. 
 So even though you can play the game with four players over IPX, TCP/IP, and Mplayer, you still 
 have to deal with all the limitations and flaws of a 3D combat engine.  

 Essentially, Braveheart is a game that tried to do too many things at once. While the turn-based 
 component is very deep, it tends to degenerate into a morass of micromanagement. And while the 
 3D combat sequences are interesting to look at, they run slowly and suffer from poor controls, 
 slow loading times, bizarre hide-and-seek engagements, and an absence of real tactics. Put the 
 two together and you have a game with lots of potential but not enough chemistry.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
