-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: BreakNeck
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/breakneck/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 22, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.7, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 21 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SouthPeak Games
Developer: Synetic
Genre: Racing
Date:     Jun 21, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
BreakNeck's impressive selection of cars and tracks add value to what would otherwise be a straightforward 
 racing game. 

 BreakNeck is a visually appealing arcade racing game that also borrows a few elements from more-realistic 
 racing simulations. While the actual gameplay can be addicting and quite fun, the game is hampered 
 by an inexcusably confusing interface that can make it frustrating to navigate the menus between 
 each race. Otherwise, BreakNeck's impressive selection of cars and tracks add value to what would 
 otherwise be a straightforward racing game.   

  BreakNeck's graphics are easily the game's best feature. Each track and car is modeled to great 
 detail, and they look even better, thanks to flashy visual effects such as environment mapping 
 (which makes the cars look shiny) and dynamic lighting (which makes the tracks look more realistic) . 
 Also, though the game's damage model isn't accurate, damage can affect the cars' appearances. Since 
 the game generally looks good, it's disappointing that BreakNeck occasionally also has some bad-looking 
 graphics that stand in sharp contrast to the otherwise vibrant imagery. Effects like sparks from 
 grinding metal appear as poor, star-shaped 2D images; and trees and other peripheral scenery objects 
 are merely low-quality sprites. Fortunately, the game moves so fast that you'll have to actively 
 search for these unimpressive visuals in order to notice them.   

  BreakNeck's sound generally isn't as impressive as the game's graphics, and its soundtrack is constantly 
 drowned out by the high-pitched engine noise of your car and the unreasonably loud ambient sounds 
 of each track. These ambient sounds are especially flawed because instead of dying down, in typical 
 Doppler-shift effect, they continue to play at a constant volume even as you speed away. The result 
 is that the ambient sound effects seem as though they're coming directly from within your car. 
   

  Fortunately, the racing in BreakNeck is actually quite enjoyable, especially because of its variety. 
 BreakNeck's ten tracks are derived from real-world locations like Egypt and Australia, and some 
 have up to three different variations and a number of weather effects for added replayability. 
 The arcade mode offers access to nine unique car classes that range from F1 racecars to 250cc karts, 
 18-wheelers, monster trucks, classic roadsters, and modern-era sports cars. There's a total of 
 43 cars available in all, and you can choose from one of eight custom paintjobs for each of vehicle 
 to add an extra touch of personality to your selection. Even though the cars aren't licensed after 
 existing models, their individual shapes and body stylings hint at which real-world vehicles they're 
 trying to copy. Each car handles distinctly, and in the expert mode you can tweak existing suspension 
 settings and purchase new parts to enhance your car's performance. But while all the cars behave 
 differently, none of them handle realistically, as BreakNeck clearly makes no pretenses at being 
 an accurate driving simulator. Instead, you can take almost any corner with the accelerator floored, 
 and you can smash head-on into oncoming traffic and sustain only minimal damage. Some of the gameplay 
 modes even let you upgrade your car with a wide variety of weapons, including chainguns, nailguns, 
 missile launchers, EMP missile launchers, and landmines. There's a total of around 20 defensive 
 and offensive weapons that you can pick up throughout each race and use to slow down your opponents 
 or, in the deathmatch mode, to destroy the other cars altogether.   

  Despite the fact that BreakNeck lets you choose between playing the arcade mode or the expert mode, 
 the two modes actually share the same physics models, cars, tracks, and most of the same gameplay 
 options. In fact, so much of BreakNeck's gameplay overlaps between the two modes that it's initially 
 confusing to distinguish between the two, and you'll find yourself constantly going back and forth 
 in an attempt to find any such variance. As it turns out, the arcade mode is designed to give you 
 instant access to BreakNeck's large inventory of cars, tracks, and gameplay modes, while the expert 
 mode forces you to unlock most of the game's cars and tracks as you progress through a series of 
 linked races while managing resources by purchasing and selling cars and parts. In addition, the 
 expert mode also adds four options: a standard race, a foxhunt race, a shoot-out foxhunt, and a 
 deathmatch, none of which is unavailable in the arcade mode. However, the difference between these 
 four expert modes is frivolous at best.   

  While the arcade and expert modes might share many of BreakNeck's same features, their interfaces 
 are drastically different. The arcade mode has a simple interface that's clearly marked with accessible 
 buttons and icons - nothing more than what's to be expected in a standard racing game. However, 
 the interface of the expert mode doesn't even remotely resemble that of the arcade mode. In fact, 
 the two interfaces look like they came from completely different games altogether. While the arcade 
 mode's interface is intuitive, the expert mode's many menu screens are littered with low-resolution 
 icons that fail to represent their corresponding functions. The menu transitions are also punctuated 
 by low-quality full-motion video sequences of an annoying character named Eddi, who continuously 
 blurts meaningless comments that are probably meant to be funny and sarcastic.   

  BreakNeck is a racing game with a wide assortment of enjoyable tracks and cars, but it's handicapped 
 by a poor interface and several problematic gameplay features. It's unfortunate that the game doesn't 
 have a more robust expert mode and that the intuitive arcade interface isn't used for the whole 
 game. Consequently, BreakNeck will be most enjoyable for players with the patience to deal with 
 an interface that simply shouldn't exist in games anymore.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 30, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Breakneck has to be the funniest racing game ever made -if you don't mind that the joke is on you. 
 What might have sounded good on a piece of paper in a project room became an absolutely horrible 
 gaming experience. There are plenty of cars to choose from, ranging from speed demons to monster 
 trucks and buses, some of them even come armed to the teeth, yet this doesn't matter when each 
 and every one of them has the same horrible handling. Apart from the arcade-ish racing there is 
 a career mode too, with so many details that the menu system is more complex than your average 
 3D rendering software.
  
  Gigantic menus roll in from both sides of the screen, and all buttons are animated and completely 
 confusing. Then there's EDDI; probably the most annoying person ever to crop up in a computer game. 
 As your frustration level is slowly building up while trying to navigate the menus, "your helpful 
 friend" animated EDDI will pop up and make fun of you by saying something condescending and stupid, 
 which is probably supposed to make you forget just how much you hate this game and direct your 
 hatred towards him instead. If you really have to play this game, invite a friend and play a race 
 in weapons mode, it's the most fun you can hope to catch from this mediocre release. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
