-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: BreakQuest
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/breakquest/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intense arcade-style gameplay.
 Dozens of power-ups with crazy effects.
 100 unique levels.
 Arcade mode lets you tweak all the settings to customize your game.
 Excellent music from Maniacs of Noise.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 At times it's nearly impossible to see the ball amid all the craziness onscreen.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 25, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.3, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 19 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Oberon Media
Developer: Nurium Games
Genre: Puzzle
Date:     Nov 15, 2004

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
BreakQuest takes the classic brick-breaking formula and packs it with enough manic effects and crazy 
 power-ups to satisfy even the most discerning twitch gamers. 

  BreakQuest is a superfast, over-the-top brick-breaking game in the vein of classics like Arkanoid 
 and Breakout. Nurium Games has injected the old formula with heavy doses of adrenaline by adding 
 dozens of crazy power-ups, cranking the speed to the max, and throwing it all in your face.  

 
  You can choose from several different ships, each with a bumper on top that deflects a bouncy 
 ball toward intricately arranged blocks onscreen. Each ship is equipped with a gravitron, which 
 pulls the ball down toward the bottom of the screen. This is an integral part of the strategy, 
 as it gives you fairly precise control over the trajectory of the ball. The stages range from weird 
 to weirder, and the properties of the blocks vary wildly between levels. As you break the blocks, 
 power capsules fall from the sky. Some power capsules will speed up your ship or give you weapons, 
 and others will slow down or change the shape of the ball. There are nine weapons and more than 
 20 power-ups in the game. If you like fast-paced twitch gameplay that never lets up, you should 
 definitely give BreakQuest a try.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mortenjohs
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  The indie-scene of computer games seems to be an infinite source for great games fitting classic 
 game genres. Yesterday I wrote a tiny review of Professor Fizzwizzle - a classic puzzler, Im 
 sure all of you are familiar with the brilliant plattformer Gish and some day I will write about 
 Hamsterball - a brilliant verison of Ballblazer, but today Ill focus on the best Arcanoid-clone 
 Ive met; BreakQuest.
  
  I remember playing Arcanoid a lot in the late mid-80s on the C64. One of my first meeting with 
 hacking a computer game was when me and my brother got the ball stuck bouncing between two point-giving 
 thingys in this game. The extra bat every 10000 points (or so) really hit the sweet spot after 
 we had left the game in this state while having a relaxed sunday dinner. Afterwards we really were 
 ready to beat the crap out of the game. :) Well; this genre hasnt really evolved much since these 
 days - untill now, that is.
  
  What first strikes one about BreakQuest is its physics engine. Thats basicly what the game adds 
 gameplaywise to the classic batn'ball arcanoid game; realistic physics. And thats fun! The 
 balls trajectory is influenced by all kinds of gadgets on each level. Even the bats and the 
 balls shapes can be modified in a classical power-up fashion. The other powerups are the classical 
 classics; health, speed, rockets, guns, multiball, etc.
  
  Sometimes the blocks you are to break are hanging by elastic treads. One of my favourite levels, 
 early on, is nothing but 24 or so vertically aligned wireframe blocks on two such strings. Each 
 block makes an out of tune note when the ball (or your bullets, rockets etc) hits it which adds 
 to the atmosphere of the level. Apart from some clever use of sounds like this, theres nothing 
 very spectacular soundwise, but the sounds are good and the soundtrack is varied enough.
  
  The graphic of the game is also good and the design changes drasticly from level to level - from 
 wireframe boxes or circles to colurful kids figures.
  
  The games storyline is centered on how big corporations have placed brain controlling devices 
 (TVs) around the world - in peoples houses, and how you, the hero in the game, have a plan to stop 
 this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zagrius
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2005 12:32 am PT
Review:  There are many classic games that almost any avid gamer will know. There's Asteroids, Invaders, 
 Pac Man, Frogger... And then we have Breakout. Breakout is probably one of the less "violent" games 
 from the list of games I mentioned, in that all you do is use your paddle to send a ball towards 
 bricks, which it destroys, while in the others you get frogs ridden over, asteroids and/or aliens 
 obliterated, and of course you have a yellow circle running away from ghosts or trying to eat them 
 inside a labyrinth.
  
  Breakout has had many remakes since it was first introduced in 1976. Some of them I would even 
 dare say were good. However, none of them were ever so enjoyable and addictive that I actually 
 found myself paying to buy a copy. BreakQuest changed that, to my surprise. This game is just that 
 good, with a hundred different stages and with three difficulty levels, compelling graphics, and 
 engaging sounds.
  
  What distinguishes this game from many of the other remakes, to my surprise, is that it has a story, 
 if a very lousy one (I personally think that the game would actually have been better without it) . 
 It seems that an evil corporation is using a "Dumb Box" to turn all humans to idiots who'll watch 
 the Box forever, so that this corporation will keep getting revenues. Wow, such a captivating and 
 original story *sigh*.
  
  Now, to the game itself. You have a paddle-ship (you can choose from a number of them, though it's 
 pure cosmetics) , a ball, and a reserve ball (the reserve ball will automatically shoot out if there 
 are no other balls on the screen, but watch out, as if you can't replace it and you lose it, then 
 you lose a life, but gain two more balls. In the easy and normal modes you get new reserve balls 
 even if you finish a level without one, but on hard mode you need at least two balls on screen 
 including the reserve to have one on the next challenge) . You move to what you think is the best 
 location, and shoot the ball, which then moves at a constant speed, and ricochets away from whatever 
 it hits, accelerating a bit (depends on the difficulty) in the process. Whatever it hits will either 
 be destroyed, damaged, change colors, or be unaffected if it's one of those rare Super Bricks that 
 can't be destroyed. 
  
  If it is a destroyable "brick", then it might drop a power up, which can increase/decrease your 
 bumper's/ball's size, multiply the number of balls you have on screen, change the shape of your 
 bumper/ball, affect your bumper-ships/balls movement rate/type (Drunk Ball/Paddle is my bane) , 
 or equip you with an arsenal of anti-brick weaponry, ranging from automatic machine guns to BBoMD 
 (Big Bombs of Mass Destruction) . You can also gain/lose stars, which, if you get 7 of them, you'll 
 get an extra reserve ball if you lack one, or you'll add another ball to the screen.
  
  The levels themselves have all sorts of neat designs, from normal 'destroy the artfully placed 
 bricks' levels, to levels that resemble classic games (I. E., Asteroids) , to levels where you need 
 to hit a number of targets a number of times until they are destroyed. One of the later levels 
 has you trying to destroy Billiard balls, while trying to refrain from destroying the black ball 
 so that you won't have to restart the level. There are also all sorts of mobile critters that get 
 in the way of your shots and can be quite annoying, but mostly they don't pose too much of an obstacle.
 
  
  The gameplay is simple, but fun. You move your paddle with either the mouse or your keyboard's 
 left and right arrow-keys. You use the left mouse button or the spacebar to shoot any weapons you 
 might have (except for mines, which your balls carry for you) , you click the right mouse button 
 or press the down arrow-key to use the gravity power (which applies a down-ward force on any balls 
 on your screen that aren't glued to the paddle, great for changing it's direction to hit that last 
 elusive brick) , and the middle mouse button or the up arrow-key will manually launch your reserve 
 ball if you feel you are required to. The ball follows a physics engine, and its response to what 
 it hits and the way it hits seem very realistic.
  
  The sounds of the way the ball hits things, of the power ups you get (each has a unique one, so 
 you can tell which power up you got just by listening to the sound it makes) , and of the weapons 
 you put to use are fitting and pretty well done. The music accompanying each level is enjoyable 
 at the least, and you won't find yourself trying to forget any tune that might end up stuck in 
 your head.
  
  Now, for the draw backs. While the graphics and sounds are fitting and great for a Breakout game, 
 they are still quite sub-par when compared to almost all the rest of the modern games you'll find 
 around for the PC. Some of the levels can be very annoying (for me it's the level where you need 
 to destroy small dots, because when you're left with only a few out there it can be very tough 
 to get the ball in the right places, especially in later levels of that sort where you have tons 
 of obstacles in your path) , and the story might get on your nerves, even though it's just an intro 
 and epilogue videos, nothing more. Fortunately, you can choose not to see the intro movie each 
 time you start playing.
  
  My last major beef is that to unlock a level you actually need to beat it once, so if you reach 
 a level and you get tired of playing so you move to something else for a while and then return, 
 you need to first finish the level before the one you reached again, so that you can return to 
 the level where you left off. Another related problem (shouldn't happen much, but still) is that 
 if you don't catch the key which falls (very slowly) from the last brick you destroy in a level, 
 then you'll actually have to beat two levels before reaching the level where you left off. I can 
 only guess that if 'N' is the number of keys you didn't catch, then you need to re-defeat 'N+1' 
 levels to get back to the last level you came across.
  
  In short, while marred with a few problems, this is The Best Breakout remake I've ever seen. You'll 
 be doing yourself an injustice if you don't at least try the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psikosis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2004 3:17 pm PT
Review:  BreakQuest is the first effort of European independent developer Nurium. It begins with the classic 
 gameplay of Breakout; use a paddle to bounce a ball against a wall of blocks where each hit of 
 the ball destroys a block. Over the years, there have been numerous games attempting to build on 
 this style of gameplay. Few have achieved any real degree of success. This game does.
  
  There is some sort of a plot in BreakQuest, but it's beyond irrelevant. Gameplay is where BreakQuest 
 really shines. The difficulty has been carefully tuned to be perfectly balanced. The paddle is 
 convex, giving the player more control over where it goes. An ability to temporarily increase gravity 
 (and alter the path of the ball) adds a bit more control. Assorted power-ups offer more ways to 
 control the ball or otherwise destroy bricks (such as explosive rockets) . In addition, a 'reserve' 
 ball is automatically launched wtih the primary ball is lost, giving players at least two chances 
 per life. Not every power-up is helpful, but few are truly lethal. Again, each power-up is thoughtfully 
 designed and carefully tuned to alter, but never disrupt, gameplay.
  
  Of course, each of the 100 levels features a different 'brick' to be destroyed. Some take multiple 
 hits, sometimes pinball-like permanent bumpers litter the field, bricks may be square or round 
 or very large or very small. Each level presents its own quirk to be adapted to. The physics engine 
 keeps things running smoothly and has been glitch-free to date.
  
  Graphically, the visuals are simply adequate for the needs of the game. They are clean and glitch-free, 
 but below the 1024x768 that seems to dominate computer games for the moment. The upside is, this 
 game will run on almost any computer. The downside is, it's not as pretty as it could be. Music 
 is a bouncy, synthesizer-sounding track scored by professional musicians. It complements gameplay, 
 but does not distract. 
  
  At 19.99 US dollars, BreakQuest is budget-priced. Honestly, it'd seem like a better value at the 
 15 dollar level because there's no CD, manual, etc. that one expects for his (or her) sawbuck. 
 But BreakQuest is a very, very good game with gameplay that many will find addictive, so it's a 
 minor quibble at best. The variety of power-ups insure each game will be different, even when playing 
 the same level. This means plenty of replay value. All in all, BreakQuest is a game worth your 
 time and money. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
