-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Breed
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/breed/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 16, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.2
Critic Score: 5.5, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 338 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Brat Designs
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Apr 2, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Breed makes a horrible first impression and then keeps making more bad impressions as you play. 
 

  Breed makes a horrible first impression. This single-player sci-fi shooter takes so outrageously 
 long to load that it should ship with an alarm clock to wake you up when it's finally ready. Breed 
 then makes many more bad impressions once you actually get to play it. You quickly see that it 
 takes a lot of its ideas from the hit game Halo (and in turn from films like  Starship Troopers 
  and  Aliens ) , and that it suffers from flimsy writing, atrocious voice acting, generic enemies 
 and settings, frame rate hits, poor mission design, lagging multiplayer, and severe bugs. All isn't 
 totally lost, though. For all that Breed does wrong, it at least lets you control some neat vehicles 
 in expansive environments. Still, even in its good moments -- which are uncommon -- Breed is a poor 
 game. During its many bad moments, you'll want to avoid it altogether.  

          Some of the many vehicles you'll control.     

  Breed sends you to the twenty-seventh 
 century, where a horde of alien creatures known as the Breed have lured most of Earth's military 
 away to a distant colony to launch a sneak attack on Earth. You play as the few remaining GRUNT 
 (Genetically Revived Universal Tactical Sentient) soldiers, basically clones, who return home to 
 find Earth overrun with little purple and red aliens armed with glowing guns. You'd think a tale 
 of a last-ditch effort to liberate Earth from alien hordes would be gripping. Not in Breed; it 
 totally lacks emotional resonance. The scenarios, settings, and alien invaders feel generic, with 
 no discernible character, let alone real style or imagination. The cutscenes are plodding and clumsy, 
 and the writing leaves even more to be desired: "A tear falls into my handkerchief," your silly 
 and gabby leader solemnly intones. A character duly notes that her "head hurts" when she's blown 
 up by artillery fire, and a soldier calls the Breed "dumb heads" as an insult. Some lines are oddly 
 phrased: "permission given" instead of "permission granted." There are localization problems also, 
 like a few words spelled in German in the subtitles.  

  Assuming you don't uninstall the game in frustration, you'll progress through eighteen missions, 
 sometimes alone, but often with a small squad of GRUNTs. You play from either a first- or third-person 
 view and assume direct control of any GRUNT in your squad at will. As in Halo, you'll zip around 
 outdoors in futuristic dune buggies and tanks and fly in nimble fighters. You take over enemy turrets 
 to blast hordes of hapless Breed, who often move, fight, and even do little sideways acrobatic 
 dodges just like the aliens in Halo. Occasionally you'll fight indoors, too, but those settings 
 are sparse and boring.  

  There's little fun to be had fighting on foot in Breed, in part because your squad mates are monstrously 
 inept. They're far more of a hindrance than a help, since they barely return fire yet always manage 
 to end up right in the line of fire -- that is, when they're not falling off cliffs. (Things get 
 even worse in some of the airborne missions, where your wingmen literally do nothing to help out.) 
 Since the artificial intelligence allies in Breed always seem to be in need of rescuing, most of 
 your "tactics" revolve around keeping them out of harm's way instead of using them as combat assets. 
 It seems utterly superfluous that you can order them to spread out, close in, assume different 
 formations, and so on. You'll mostly be ordering them to halt behind what little cover you can 
 find or telling them to hand you a medikit when you're in dire straits.  

  GRUNTs are divided into a few different classes that determine what two weapons they initially 
 carry (the two-weapon limit again recalling Halo) . The weapons in Breed are all standard shooter 
 fare: slightly futuristic assault rifles, shotguns, rocket launchers, sniper rifles, and the like. 
 Breed ignores one of the basic necessities of any shooter: The guns should look so cool and feel 
 so powerful that the mere act of firing them is fun. Here, they're all pretty dull. As in Halo, 
 you can pick up alien energy weapons, but these are also bland, not to mention inaccurate.  

  Breed takes a turn for the better with its vehicles. The ground vehicles, including tanks, buggies, 
 jeeps, and APCs are easy to control (think Halo or Battlefield 1942) and boast physics that are 
 just realistic enough without becoming cumbersome. Some of them bristle with multiple weapons, 
 like the neatest GRUNT vehicle, the tank. You both steer it and aim the main turret, which lets 
 you switch between a minigun, plasma cannon, guided missiles, and rockets. Meanwhile, other GRUNTs 
 man smaller machine-gun turrets. It's overkill in the best sense. Cruising around and blasting 
 towers and trees to dust can be fun while it lasts. (Fun never lasts long in Breed.) Air vehicles, 
 like fighters and dropships, are a bear to control at first and can fall into irrecoverable stalls 
 too easily, but once you get the hang of them you'll appreciate their high maneuverability.  

 
  Unfortunately, Breed's missions can be so numbingly repetitive, predictable, or downright confusing 
 that it probably won't matter to you whether you're driving a snazzy vehicle or merely jogging 
 about on foot. Superficially, the missions are well varied: You fight outdoors and in, on the ground 
 and in the air (sometimes in the same mission) . Sometimes there are timed segments to light a fire 
 under you. Beneath that exterior diversity, you quickly see that the missions often follow the 
 same basic patterns. Every time you turn a bend or crest a hill, out pops a horde of enemies, usually 
 with a couple more firing nearby turrets or firing down from nearby hilltops. It's way too easy 
 to guess exactly what will happen next.  

  Scripting problems, bugs, and confusing goals also mar missions. You're told a wingman is in trouble 
 and that you need to help him, yet there are no enemies left that can hurt him. As you try to escort 
 him to safety, he just mysteriously blows up for no reason, and there goes the mission.  

  On top of that, the aliens in Breed are about as smart as stones: Other than the occasional dodge, 
 they mostly just charge you until they're all wiped out, or they stand around waiting to be sniped 
 en masse. When they win, it's through sheer strength in numbers, and the game loves to overwhelm 
 you with enemies. Airborne battles are similar in that they usually send one wave of fighters after 
 another toward you with a clockwork precision.  

  Breed's presentation suffers from the same lack of imagination and polish that hurts the whole 
 game. It's literally hard to remember what the aliens look like (other than their vague resemblance 
 to Halo's enemies) , and the same applies to the GRUNT armor, enemy bases, and most of the vehicles. 
 The game's settings usually bear little resemblance to any real place on Earth, but rather feel 
 like some generic fantasy planet. Technically, the graphics are reasonably impressive, rendering 
 all kinds of flashy weapon fire and sprawling outdoor environments, but at the cost of stuttering 
 frame rates -- particularly during battles. Even with a high-end rig, you may have to crank the resolution 
 or details down. The game is also annoying in that it requires you to re-specify your preferred 
 refresh rate every time you play.  

          Blasting a bridge with a tank.     

  While the graphics have their good and bad points, the audio is often so bad you'll want to turn 
 it off. Prepare yourself for audio stuttering and drop-outs, forgettable music, wimpy-sounding 
 weapons and explosions, and horrid voice "acting" (by the game's developers instead of professional 
 actors) replete with cheesy accents and mispronounced words ("stealth" comes out as "steelth") . 

  Along with the poor single-player campaign, Breed includes unimaginative multiplayer: just deathmatch 
 variants. It can still be mildly fun to fly above the battlefield and bomb unsuspecting soldiers 
 into oblivion, though we found multiplayer barely playable most of the time, even with the latest 
 patch installed. Various bugs, some ill-conceived maps, and frequent -- and often severe -- lag, warping, 
 and hit detection issues mean you can snipe someone in the head five times without it registering. 
 Vehicles and characters often seem to teleport around the map, move through each other, or sink 
 into the ground, even when you play over a broadband connection. Really, the only thing Breed has 
 going for it is its wide variety of vehicles. But in a game with so many serious problems, it's 
 hard to enjoy them for long.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: thrasher505
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  breed would actually be a lot of fun if it weren't for the pure stupidity of your teammates. they 
 are incredibly effective at getting themselves killed and simply not firing their weapon when faced 
 with enemies. i find it utterly ridiculous that the ai wasn't vastly improved before release. if 
 it wasn't for the ai squad however, it would be kinda fun i think. the guns were kinda neat, the 
 kills felt pretty satisfying but the ai teammate problem was too much for me to enjoy the good 
 parts. i actually only made it through about 20 minutes of the first mission before i gave up on 
 the game entirely. oh and one other minor yet major point, NO QUICKSAVE KEY?! i mean you can still 
 save by going to the main menu and saving your game there but at this point in the history of first 
 person shooters the quicksave key is pretty integral. everytime i saved it completely interrupted 
 any rhythm the game may have been building. anyway, i say don't bother with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_copycat
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 9, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  at first the game was great but i got bored with it even thought there is so much to do in it
 
  in this game there are 18 great story based missions when it fist came out the multi player was 
 quite good but no body plays it any more so thats y i stopped playing it.
  in this game there is great exciting vechics like fighter jets ,landing crafts, tanks, jeeps and 
 buggies
  
  but this game can get very hard at one or 2 bits and the grahics look sort of cartoony which is 
 fine but not great to todays grahics of newer games the sound is great and the game play is good
 
  
  but the really problem is that u die to easy a few hits and ur history
  but its still an experiance to play try it first before buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ikbenjimi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Ok This game was anounced over 2 years before its final launch, and was put back so often it might 
 never have come out at all. But Its here, Its Not as good as Halo, and reading All the previous 
 reviews I agree with them, and No Halo isnt that good Either I Know. The AI Engine and Geometry/Path 
 Engine in BREED is FLAWED badly, But the game dose allow you to make your own way through each level, 
 Which is Massive, so unlike Halo its not just a A to B via Route x only type game. I dont really 
 care for The Missions in these type Games , I like the Multiplayer LAN / Online Modes of games 
 much moreAnd in this game, you have more choice of Human or Alien to play insted of Just GRUNT.
 
  Yes you can play tha Aliens , The BREED themselves ...
  Online Play though is very Patchy at the moment, hardly anyone there ... (hint Buy the game) Forming 
 small teams and utilising the Vehicles, is going to be a big attraction to Players ...
  Buildings and trees suffer damage , Which is neat, adds to the satisfaction of wipeing out a sniper 
 in a tower or the entire opposite team after shoting a missile at them .... And the Demo you can 
 download is not as good as the actual game by a long way ... Wish Halo looked this good and Breed 
 Played as well. Plus Masive online Maps and weapons, simular to Delta Force Land warrior very open 
 felling to play, Its only 9.99Minus There arnt enough people playing it online.
  The ingame Music is ........ enough said ... but at least you can turn it off This can still be 
 a grate game even if only in MultiplayerMaybe if BRAT decide to allow 3rd partys to write for this 
 game and patch it up it will be a small clasic , instaed of a Missed opertunity. I Still Play Quake 
 3 and Unral Tournament, Because of all the Mods Skins and support they recive from the players
 
  and with Player support this might just be Combat evolved after all ...
  Cheap dig at Halo there .. LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion85
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 14, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  As you start playing Breed the first Mission begins in a gun tower of a helicopter where you must 
 destroy some radars on a little island. The water looks amazing so does the rest of the world. 
 Therefore in the beginning you might be stunned about what the game has to offer: Lots of shooting 
 action! And wait until you see the vehicles: Tanks, Buggies, Transporters and Aircrafts, there 
 is something for everyone. 
  The missions offer a great variety there are 16 in total but it'll take you twice the amount of 
 time to play through the last 2 than the first 14 levels. 
  
  But then you realise that the ennemy A. I. is simply disappointing. Not only will you just encounter 
 only a handful of different ennemies (i think 3 or 4) but they are so lame, that you might almost 
 feel sorry for them. I mean who would just start shooting off from a mile away and obviously just 
 using ammo but not hitting a single thing?
  The ennemies also come in vast quantities, but the Serious Sam feeling is not present. And since 
 the game is so unrealistic, why is the player only able to hold two weapons at the time? Speaking 
 of weapons, they aren't that good as well and they just lack the visual coolness. Eventhough you 
 can pick up the ennemies weapons, you will get bored soon enough.
  
  There is a multiplayer that looks quite promising but since noone ever plays it is hard to finf 
 opponents to play with.
  
  Breed could have been such a grat game due to its graphics and great ideas but the terrible A. I. 
 of only 3 different opponents, the bad weapons and the endless but tiring killing sprees make the 
 game a pain in the neck and once you complete the campain, there is little motivation to play it 
 again (I did so recently but gave up after the 2nd level because it just s*cked)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Maru-Mari-
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 13, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This game's just a fun game, it really missed the board on realisme but that makes it fun. 
  Crappy Aliens, crappy voice overs, mediocar graphicsb, but still Just 3 letters F. U. N.
  Got the 
 game for 2 Euro's, thats 2,5 bucks :) , for an original copy, In a nice carbon box.
  
  The music is really dope, good hyper kinda music, sets you into killing spree mode! You just wanna 
 blow up every single breed mothah F'er!
  
  Fun thing also is, The band of borthers kinda link to it.
  At startup it says band of Mutha's. 
 It really sets the games attitude.
  
  Dont know much about the levels, haven't played it much yet, but I will!
  
  If you find this 
 game for less then 5 bucks you have got to buy it!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 1, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  Breed isnt that bad, yes it looks a bit cartoony and yes its a very very hard game, but if there 
 were more people online it would have been great.
  It offers vehicles which is really cool.
  
  Gameplay:
  Good, nice vehicles, lousy weapons.
 
  Very very very hard enemies, which really sucks.
  Enemies dont look cool too.
  
  Graphics:
  Cartoony, which isnt good.
  
  Sounds:
  Sounds are average, but the music really 
 rocks++++
  
  Value:
  mmmmmm....... good or bad, it offers online though, which isnt so bad at all.
  Long campaign 
 too, but just too hard to play
  
  Variety of gameplay:
  Lots of vehicles, lots of weapons and turrets, and enemies.
  
  Online:
  Good if there were 
 more people online (grrrrr.....) .
  
  Breed isnt bad but it aint good too.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdwardLau
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  First of all, the storyline is fairly good, what you'd expect from an above-average sci-fi film. 
 The Earth is under attack, so re-capture it from the aliens.
  
  First lets get all the negative things aside. The AI is OK, but frustrating in some moments. The 
 enemy hide, shoot, run at you, but seems to lack common sense. I sniped a BREED, whose companion 
 crouched and just stared. Anyway, the AI still provides some challenge in numbers. 
  The animations could have been more polished, but the game has a low spec so old pcs can play it. 
 The physics too could have been better. There are floating guns on a tower, and once I fired a 
 shoulder mounted rocket at a large tower, half of it blew up. Its like blowing up half of the empire 
 state building with 1 rocket. Level scripts could have been better. SOmetimes you don't even know 
 what to do.
  
  Now we get to the positive things. The graphics are good, better than HALO. The vehcles are SO 
 FUN to use. Tanks, dropships, fighters, jeeps, APCs. The numerouse vehicles can be interacted with. 
 E. g on a dropship you can opn/close windows, use mounted weapons, drop the ramp....
  The enviroment is also very interactive. Trees can be destroyed, use turrets from damaged tanks...
 
  
  In all, a good 7. If they fix all the glitches, better AI, better sound, better animations, it 
 would be what it was supposed to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambamatic
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I really dont understand the gamespot review for this game at all. First of all, I expereinced 
 no problems loading the game or running the game. Second, the game looks great and playes very 
 well.
  
  I was one of those guys who was very dissapointed with HALO. I dont have time for online multi-player... I 
 like to play single player campaigns only, and Halo's single player I found to be really lame. 
 Silly looking bad guys, not enough weapons, medicore maps. When I finished the game I really felt 
 like I could have never played it at all and been perfectly happy.
  
  Breed's single player campaign kicks Halo's butt. You have a huge variety of vehicles to choose 
 from... you ride in tanks and shoot planes out of the sky... you have sniper rifles, rocket launchers, 
 huge maps that can be travelled in non-linear fashion.... great big bunkers and towers that require 
 all out assault and quite a bit of planning and strategy...
  
  I loved this game, and still play it occasionally. I took halo back to the store and sold it back 
 as soon as I was done, but Breed sits in my collection and still gets play. I think I'll always 
 have it. Just a plain old GOOD TIME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowAegis
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  What i can say the company who made breed did a very bad job with it.
  
  Grahpics are ok.
  Gamepley Kinda funny.
  Story rubish.
  
  When they made this game i did 
 not know that they stoped half-way and did not finish the story i could not believe it i wish i 
 never bought it.
  
  There is multiplayer but it's not that that good sept it's alittle like Battlefield 1
  And there 
 is alittle teamwork you get a squad of 4 when you start so that bit is fun but the AI in the game 
 is rubish.
  
  But if you still want to buy it make sure it's cheap!
  
  well that's my little review of breed since nothing much to stay sept this game is 
  
  Rubish.
 
  
  Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyroo08
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 16, 2005 6:26 am PT
Review:  When i originally found this game at EB i thought it must be good; the screenshots on the box looked 
 nice and the comments such as "The game that beats halo" or something. The game can hardly be compared 
 with halo with its lack of immersive gameplay and poor voice acting. It seems that this game was 
 made on a tight budget and a limited amount of time as it is missing the qualities of other titles 
 such as ut 2004, halo, tribes vengence etc. Firstly the voice acting in cut scenes and taunts is 
 terrible and isn't even done with real actors, the quality of sound such as gunfire is also very 
 low. 
  
  The graphics are not too bad, but not too good either. Minor details such as trees bursting into 
 shreds as soon as they are even touched by a vehicle and explosions that are comparable to the 
 ones you would see in an arcade game of asteroids, just make the game even more unbearable.
  
  The missions that are hardly challanging are comprised of repetative waves of enemies and small 
 goals to complete, prolonged by hills that take forever to climb as your units are really sloooow 
 when accending slopes. If you walk in the water, you're pretty much done for as by time you slowly 
 crawl back to the land you are basically dead.
  
  After playing through the first few missions I took the game back to the store and bought farcry, 
 which is much more challanging and has decent gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeeemadudbomb
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 31, 2005 2:57 am PT
Review:  This game is rated 'M', but there's no blood, no gore and the only violence is dust coming out 
 of the Breed when they get shot. This could have been rated 'T' because there isn't much swearing 
 in to either. The sargent guy calls the Breed "Dumb Heads" And you'll just think WTF why not DumbAss, 
 it's rated M for strong language! Anyways, the Graphics are real good, you get a Huge Island similar 
 to Farcry, good water effects brush, trees, rocks, tall grass. The place is pretty good looking 
 and you can see for kilometers without a load time. Levels are proabably bigger than some of the 
 levels in Serious Sam. You get plenty of Vehicles to drive around in so you can get to where you 
 need to in a rush, just don't hit a tree or rock. They damage your vehicle more than is nessesary. 
 Breed die with the same couple of animations each time so it gets brutal after a while. And now 
 before I forget, Your squad mate AI is a joke, they will walk into water and drown, fall off a 
 cliff and get themselves killed unless you control their movement when they are being idiots.
 
  Now the part you want to hear about, the gore! None that's it. Dust. I at least wanted sparks, 
 but I got puffs of dust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2004 9:02 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves more then what gamespot gave it. It's a good game, but you have to watch your 
 ammo, thats the worse part. The story is ok, The graphics a fairly nice, but could have been done 
 much better. The sound is good, but not the best. I think this game was more of a buget title then 
 anything, they could have done much better, but i'm not saying that it sucks. It's a FPS, it's 
 hard to describe really, it's a different kind of game. You are a team of 4, a sniper, heavy gunner,2 
 Gunners, which you can switch to be at any time. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swedester
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 7, 2004 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Breed isnt really a bad game - just not great. It isnt anywhere near halo in gameplay or graphics, 
 but as a game in its own right its not too shoddy. The game runs like a cross between halo and 
 a game like hidden & dangerous where you can order your AI controlled squad around and take control 
 of different squad members if need be. In most of the missions you do control a squad, and in the 
 main it works well. There are time however when your AI buddies are totally brainless and get lost/stuck 
 or just dont do what you ask. If you can overcome this problem you may start enjoying the game 
 (as I have) . 
  
  The visuals as others have mentioned are superb - they also run fairly well on a modest system 
 - (I have a 2ghz P4 with an FX5900XT and 1 gig of ram)
  
  My recommendation would be to try it before buying, especially if you like the genre - you may 
 just like it. Dont worry about some of the very low scores it has received, everyone has different 
 tastes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin2u
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 22, 2004 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  The graphics are awesome, the attention to the details, I have not seen in many games, one closet 
 to mind would be Halo, it to has awesome graphics.
  
  Game play and controls are excellent, the replay value is very high.
  
  Cons:
  There are 
 some minor and major problems in the game. Most are due to added scripting which changed alot of 
 things from what were intended by the originators of the game.
  Such as missions freezing up (AI's not wanting to complete their scripted runs with out some nudging) .
 
  
  With the proper corrections the game would get a rating of 10 by me and my cousin. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: comscan
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 19, 2004 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Like so many others it seems like I waited forever for this game, (just like HALO for pc) ... I have 
 to admit the graphics are almost cartoonish. I also have to agree with so many others, the sound 
 is let down by the mediocre voice acting and yes your squad AI leaves a lot to be desired and what's 
 with the long load time on game start up?
  
  Anyway on the plus side I still had fun! the squad is controllable enough to keep them out of too 
 much trouble with a little pre-planing. As for the vehicles they are loads of fun, I wish you could 
 bypass the cut scenes though.
  
  I also haven't had any problems with frame rates, resolution, or any form of crashes whatsoever, 
 my system, athlon 64, 512Ram, Geforce 5900, Audigy 2.
  
  In conclusion the game feels dated in so many ways but the fun factor far outweighed the faults 
 for me. Incidently, yes I have Halo, C. O. D, Painkiller etc etc... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pos3
Rating: 3.7
Date: Apr 18, 2004 2:17 pm PT
Review:  From what I heard from the perviews and the hype of all of it. I indeed thought that this game 
 might beat out Halo. But asuption is the mother of all foul ups. This game reaks from the sound 
 to the graphics. Me personally I love a good FPS. But not this it really reaks out loud. Graphics 
 are blocky the sound sounds like it comming out of a tin can. The AI! What AI completly devoid 
 of anithing that resembels an AI. Who ever put the Ok on this POS definitly got fired. Let God 
 have mercy on Brat Studios Sole. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leppen
Rating: 1.1
Date: Apr 18, 2004 1:38 pm PT
Review:  I bought the limited Edition and i must say i am utterly dissapointed with this pieca of game! 
 The game is boring to the ground, the AI is - as far as i can tell (played to Mission 4 and gave 
 up - nowhere to be seen. The missions are so heavily scripted, that you have to go the way the 
 developers intended you to go. Alas try to miss a 10x10 Pixel wide scriptnode and the Mission is 
 chaos. Multiplayer is not fun at all. You can't play that game in Multi, because of severe lag 
 and serverproblems. What these guys made 5 year developing this grappy game, i do not know, but 
 hey, they anounced two new games ;-) well then in 2015 we will play these games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randyslim
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2004 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I have been trusting gamespot for a long time on the reviews of games but whats up with the low 
 score? Breed ran flawlessly on my computer. I have a 2500+ Barton, 9700 pro, 768mgs of ram, and 
 nforce2 board and I have had Halo, Painkiller, and FarCry glitch my system but besides the 2nd 
 demo "which ran like crap" the game runs as smooth as any Quake III engine game. The graphics aren't 
 FarCry or anything but it sure beats Halo with a stick. I have just about every fps on the market 
 (except Rainbow Six series) and it surprised me on the simple team based control, and good AI. 
 Ya Ya just like most they get stuck on walls sometimes, but they hold their own. You need to find 
 the pre 1.0 demo and play the team based side and you'll see what I am bragging about. The game's 
 use of vehicles are as fun as Halo and just as easy. I found no gliches so far. I haven't beat 
 it but trust me find the first demo and you will buy. If you have any questions email me. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
