-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Brigade E5: New Jagged Union
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/brigadee5nju/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Innovative movement options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Awful visuals and sound.
 Awkward smart-pause-mode system that isn't actually very smart about when it pauses.
 Quirks with inventory management and commands.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 29, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 3.9, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 131 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Apeiron
Genre: Modern Turn-Based...
Date:     Oct 17, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Subtitle or not, this ain't the second coming of Jagged Alliance. 

  Don't be fooled by a subtitle. Although you've got to admire the chutzpah of developer Apeiron 
 and publisher Strategy First for attempting to fake out fans with the name of Brigade E5: New Jagged 
 Union, this turn-based tactical simulation has nothing in common with the late, great Jagged Alliance 
 series besides a premise about mercenaries in the tropics. Third-rate mission design, prehistoric 
 visuals, and problematic pathfinding mean that you won't enjoy playing soldier of fortune here, 
 even if the developers have added a bit of life to the squad-sim genre with a few design innovations. 

          Bad guys aren't up for taking cover most of the time.     

  The first thing you'll wonder is if Brigade has been in development since Jagged Alliance 2 hit 
 store shelves back in 1999 -- because it sure looks like it. This is one of the ugliest games to 
 grace a monitor in some time. It doesn't quite devolve all the way back to the big 2D sprites featured 
 in the Jagged Alliance games, but it's as close as you could possibly come with a somewhat modern 
 3D engine. All of the jungle settings in the fictional nation of Palinero, which serves as the 
 game's setting, are dark and dreary. You're supposed to be a gun for hire in a tropical paradise, 
 but the smeared dark green and brown color palette is a long way from the lush palm-tree hues you 
 go in expecting.  

  Actually, the palm trees here are made up of polyhedrons. Buildings are little more than crude, 
 mostly unfurnished boxes. Maps end abruptly in bright blue walls, so it looks as if you're soldiering 
 on a movie set. Characters are alternately blurry and pixelated, and one of the main mercs looks 
 too much like a young Stalin for the resemblance to be a coincidence. Unrealistic animations include 
 dead characters either slowly settling to the ground as if they were tucking themselves in for 
 a nap, or going immediately from upright to prone.  

  Audio features the same annoying heavy metal music that seems to be in every second-rate Eastern 
 European game these days, along with horribly butchered dialogue. The English language gets manhandled 
 more than the corrupt goons who run Palinero. Dialogue often makes no sense and includes unintentionally 
 hilarious translations as funny as anything Nintendo inflicted on the English-speaking world in 
 the old NES days. You constantly hear mercs proudly saying that dead enemies have been "neutered," 
 which is either a mistake or proof that these Russians really don't mess around. Also, all of the 
 characters speak in phony-sounding Russian accents straight out of a B movie, which is a bit weird 
 because developer Apeiron is actually based in Russia.  

  Given the look and feel of Brigade it shouldn't come as any surprise that the gameplay is also 
 second-rate. But it's not quite as bad as it could be. The campaign is the standard stereotypical 
 tale about fighting a corrupt military junta that will be familiar to those who remember their 
 jaunts through Metavira and Arulco in the Jagged Alliance games. Difficulty is grueling, as seems 
 typical for this genre, largely because you spend a lot of time operating solo at the start of 
 the game. This makes for some really painful early missions in which you get gunned down many times 
 before lucking your way through.  

  Also, the campaign doesn't feel nearly as realistic as the games it attempts to mimic. Mercs here 
 have zero personality to go along with their combat stats, even though you start off in a job interview 
 with a commanding officer who sets your stats based on your answers to questions (which are inane 
 ones like how you prefer to impress girls) . So you can't get emotionally attached to them. The 
 feel is very "gamey." You can't talk to most NPCs (even though the cursor changes to a "talk" command 
 when you hover it over them) ; there is a lot of helping people out just because, even though you're 
 supposed to be a gun for hire; stores only carry weapons in line with the current stage of the 
 game; and so forth. Multiplayer is present, but you might as well forget about ever taking advantage 
 of the option, because the in-game server browser is never able to actually connect to a server. 

  Enhanced control over troops is provided by a few nifty movement innovations, though. It's generally 
 easy to get around, so the "why the hell is he doing that?" frustration common to turn-based tactical 
 games is minimized. A suite of commands based on holding down the Shift or Alt keys makes it a 
 snap to move accurately and swiftly. The quick-cornering option, for instance, lets you immediately 
 whip around corners and target enemies in range. It comes in really handy throughout the game and 
 makes combat both more realistic and more enjoyable. Well, most of the time. Enemies can pull off 
 this move, too, and they do it so fast that they seem to materialize out of nowhere, shoot you, 
 and then immediately vanish back behind cover. That isn't quite so enjoyable.  

          So, are you hiring mercenaries, or are we playing Mystery Date?     

  But don't get 
 too hopeful based on the above, because the game is clunky in most other respects. The hybrid real-time/turn-based 
 Smart Pause Mode (SPM) movement system isn't all that intelligent; it pauses constantly, even in 
 the midst of carrying out shooting commands. You can edit these pauses, but the game still halts 
 for no apparent reason on a regular basis even with some of the more irritating ones turned off. 
 Artificial intelligence is on the ball at times, and will even smartly send enemies to flank you 
 around buildings on occasion. But much of the time they either duck for the nearest cover and stay 
 there, only peeking out to shoot at you, or simply stand their ground and blast away. Enemies can 
 shoot you through doors on occasion, too, and at other times walk partially through them.  

  By any way to measure it, Brigade is a bad game. Aperion came up with a novel idea with its innovative 
 movement mechanic, but everything else about the game is so ugly, busted, or otherwise unpleasant 
 that it all but negates that one positive point.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ggrognard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is truely a niche game and is is not for those that prefer anything "real time". IMO, 
 this game can best be described as a hard-core tactical WARgame, set in a 'fictional' modern setting. 
 Yeah, that would make it a bit of a "niche game"... Add in the fact that it was released with more 
 than its fair share of bugs and it is no wonder this game tanked with most "professional game reviewers". 
 But, with it now 2009 the bugs are long gone, the game can be had for dirt cheap and it is STILL 
 the best realistic squad level, tactical wargame on the market.
  
  If this game had been based on paratroopers dropping into Normandy in 1944 it would have been lauded 
 as the ultimate historical tactical wargame.
  
  With that said, yep, the graphics are a bit dated (even in 2006 when it was released they were 
 a year or so behind the times IMHO) and the sounds are dated as well. But, when it comes to good, 
 solid, tactical WARgames picky things like this don't bother me anymore (beggars can not be choosers!)
 
  
  The gameplay itself has a few issues... but nothing major and is very stable (even on Vista) . All 
 in all, this is a fun game and it hits the mark as a tactical, squad level wargame. It even works 
 if you do NOT really want all that "realism". 
  
  Basically, the battles of the game entail that you play the game with the and plot out your fire-fight 
 strategy second by second... not everybody's cup of tea, but then again not everyone likes the twitch-twitch-twitch 
 of Halo-type games either. I am sorry, this does not make it a bad game, nore does it mean that 
 adreniline-hyped-twitch-games like the above mentioned really earned the insanely high scores they 
 seem to have on this site either...
  
  As stated below, Brigade E5: New Jagged Union is truly an old school game: it can be HARD. Part 
 of this can be due to the settings. For example, if you set the damage on "realistic" do not expect 
 your soldiers to be doing much after they take a 9mm round to the head. One bullet wound can kill, 
 and those that don't generally will ruin your merc's day.
  
  The much maligned pause-able real time is just thatand now in 2009 it is pretty common place. 
 As a matter of fact I find some of the posts from 2006 whining about this type of pause-able real-time 
 pretty humorous considering how much more wide-spread it is now. Re-reading some of the below posts 
 now makes it quite clear that the posters never did really figure it out back in 2006...
  
  As a long time wargamer and lover of tactical sims, this is the one to beat; even today in 2009 
 this game stands as the hands down best tactical warfare simulator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: centavo3
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 6, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  Seriously, I bought this game for 5 bucks and even then i though it was a mayor ripp off!!! I mean, 
 I know it takes some work to make such a crappy video game, but seriously is a waste of cds. I 
 played this game and enemies just disappear right in front of you, enemies come out of nowhere 
 and bullets can go trough mountains, buildings, etc. the gameplay is horrible and nonsense, the 
 characters are buch lifeless AI's that only know how to move straight to the side and back... there 
 is no dialog and the graphics... well I rather play aTari or the ping pong game they have way better 
 graphics!! those people who wrote reviews saying that this is a cool game.... well what the hell 
 is going on??? they are probably the Russian developers themselves trying to sell this game.... no 
 way someone from the 21 century likes this .... forgive me but seriously.... computers have evolved 
 ... the game... did not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AntraX92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  It's just another great game from the russian game developers and programmers. I played this game 
 in three kinds of ways. So i know everything about this game. Once i worked for the smugglers, 
 once for the NDF, and once for the General Tormens. Believe me, if you want to complete the game 
 easily, then you better work for the NDF. If you want the worst way, then try at the smugglers. 
 This game has about 150 different weapons, with full equipment, like bipods, lasers, subbarrels 
 launcher, silencers, scopes, flashlights and bayonets. You can wear your wepons on your neck, or 
 on you shoulders. You can keep the bombs, ammunitions, grenades and all your stuff in your pockets, 
 vests and bags. There are three types of armor vests : Tactical (M100) , Medium (M500) , Heavy (M1000)
 
  I can't even think about, how did they made all those weapons so realistic. 
  I can't wait to play the game : 7.62 mm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noone_no
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 2:47 am PT
Review:  !Sorry for my English! The game had a big minus. It should let you make your own main hero like 
 in Jagged Alliance. But nothing is perfect so I really like to play this game. When I start I have 
 to learn a things different from games I used to play. If you want to shoot you need a gun, a magazine 
 and a bullets. When You use the gun it soon would be dirty so it needs cleaning. If You burst to 
 often the weapon jammed and you see a red world. Head shots sometimes don't kill, they only make 
 you feel dizzy. Strange :) At the begging my favorite weapons are silenced GLOCK 17 with laser 
 sight and MAC 10 with silencer, a quiet close combat multi shoot deadly tool. Later when you got 
 more experience the shop keepers gives you a backpack and wests so You can get some more powerful 
 guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: udip21
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 28, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  Well what's this i see about the game play being criticised here. The only reason one might do 
 that is if they cannot understand it, or that they are unable to handle it. Trust me, once you 
 get the hang of this innovative pause-go mode , you will completely appreciate it, mainly because 
 -
  1. Its much more realistic and sensible than a turn based mode.
  2. Its give you time to plan your actions as well. So here we have the advantage of both a real 
 time strategy as well as turn based mode without the drawbacks.... reminds me of the sports-coupe/sedan 
 Mazda RX8...
  
  For the ones who might have given up being intimidated, go back and try it out at least. The game 
 play compensates to some extent what the game lacks, which is almost everything else... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tziganu_36
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 2, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  Huge potential wasted... why aren't we allowed to vote for hanging some of the developers? And 
 watch the execution video... I'm even ready to pay to see the execution live!
  
  After so many years from JA2 and with only Silent Storm to fill the gap (altough to short for a 
 hardcore fan of the genre) with JA3D dead and burried by some russian team... E5 looked like a 
 bright star at the horizon... And it could be that star - only with a little more work form the 
 developers.
  
  Shame and shame again... not to mention that the producers lost a lot of money by hurrying the 
 release.
  
  Although there is hope: the graphical engine is satisfactory, the tactical phase is good and the 
 AI work very good. If only Bioware will buy the rights and do the rest as they know how:) ) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokileymith
Rating: 2.3
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the Jagged Alliance series, and quite frankly this game shouldn't even be mentioned 
 as part of that series. Game play is slow and tedious, not to mention repetitive. The characters 
 are flat and dull, and ultimately the whole game is pointless. I have never in my life fallen asleep 
 playing a computer game, but this time I did. The only good things about this game are the graphics 
 and music. The interface is so poor that I nearly smashed my mouse in frustration. You need to 
 take several tries to try and pick up a simple object like a gun. The training mission is a joke, 
 and should give you a good example of how bad the rest of the game really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erik760524
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 18, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  Even though Brigade E5 has many unpolished sides, it is still a unique, rare and valuable gem (or 
 was it game..) .
  
  This game introduces SPM, smart pause mode. It is the most immersive, realistic and tactical combat 
 mode I have seen in a game and it has all good parts of turn based combat. It feels like a combat 
 simulation and still gives you all the time you need to make your decisions. Traditional turn base 
 combat, IMO optimized in JA2, feels old and grey compared to this dynamic, tactical system.
  
  If you are a fan of tactical combat games you must get it. It takes some time to get used to 
 and some parts of the game are buggy and/or badly translated. Nevertheless, buy it, play it and 
 look out for the developer Apeiron's sequel - 7.62! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraiym
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 20, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I acknowledge the game has many, many rough spots. Images are not cutting edge, path finding is 
 problematic, the translation and quests are sometimes rather obscure - BUT - this is a very good 
 tactical squad game.
  
  A steep learning curve (figuring out how to get grenades thrown properly - hint - it takes 2 -3 
 tries holding the shift key to get the desired arc) , really tough beginning (fear my useless 9 
 mm pistol cowardly gangsters) , and a economic system that is at best peculiar (hmm, you wish to 
 sell me that good quality m-16? I will buy it for $1, and then offer it for resale at $900) all 
 contribute to frustration. (Not to mention the terribly exciting enemy reinforcements appearing 
 in the middle of your squad in the middle of a firefight)
  
  On the other hand, once you get the hang of the game, this is a great tactical sim. Very playable, 
 enemy AI is better than most games (once it gets moving) and the weapons are very detailed.
  
  Well worth the price, I hope for sequel (s) - not Jagged Alliance, or X-com, but still a good 
 game, and certainly one of the very few tactical sims at all (Sorry UFO guys) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 13, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  In short :
  
  Good :
  
  - Excellent combat engine, best to date in my opinion.
  - Lots of weapons and stuff and never-seen-before things
  - Quite realistic occasionally
  - 
 Many good ideas and improvements to the genre
  
  Bad/Worse :
  
  - Graphics are mostly outdated, except for weapons
  - Lacks in story, if there is even one
 
  - Some bugs and some irritating coding issues
  - Quest information is sometimes quite vague
  - Most likely we ain't gonna be getting any more 
 updates etc.
  
  Neutral :
  
  - Music isn't great, but personally it rarely bothers me
  - Can be very hard and unforgiving, 
 but still doable (after a few tries)
  - Gun sounds. They vary enough, but I guess you could say something is still missing
  - A. I can 
 be challenging at times, but sometimes still works as a complete idiot
  
  The Long Story (tm) :
  
  Jagged Alliance in real time? Could it be this surprise- and unhyped 
 game? Well, the answer would be 'no'.
  
  I don't know where to begin. Brigade E5 creates so much mixed emotions. It's quite good, but still 
 quite bad and under the par we'd expect new games to be like. Take graphics for example : in pictures 
 it looks horrible and if I'd have to guess, I'd date them to the end of 90's or so. However, the 
 character animation is good enough and it the weapon models balance it a bit. While textures are 
 gruesome and bland, I'd still have to say that placing of surroundings are well done, the villages 
 seem like villages and not just set of scattered houses along the sector somewhere. But graphic-wise 
 there's nothing to cheer about.
  
  But thank god, the combat-engine is tight. Instead of turn-based point-system, everything happens 
 in real time (altough you can control the time's speed) , so actions cost time instead of points. 
 As with previous installments of realtime combat, this brings certain things possible, and it makes 
 combat look bit more real and makes it more complex. Do I have time to shoot this guy, or does 
 he get me first?
  
  Movement is pretty much what we've gotten used to lately; your guys can walk, run in two speeds 
 (jogging or something and full speed) , crouch in two speeds and move via prone. Different moving 
 styles consume different amount of energy, ie. if you run all you can, you will go fast but won't 
 last for long. Also, you can move with your gun pulled up, meaning that your time to aim is shortened 
 since you're already more ready to fire. This however consumes energy and cannot be used endlessly, 
 which is only a good thing. Your guys also strafe on walk and crouching positions, use ladders 
 and so on. Additionally, some new stuff is introduced, such as a quick turn-around around the corner, 
 which can replace the strafing. This can be very usefull wether there is somebody or not waiting 
 you to come, since, again, your aiming time is shortened if you've put your weapon ready. Also, 
 while prone, you can roll (like strafing) on ground.
  Sadly due half-assed coding, these do not always work in spots you'd expect'em to. Roll-around 
 the corners works around 90% of the time (altough the cursor has to be put waaaaay further than 
 you'd expect) , but rolling on ground works maybe 50% of the times you try it, or less. Most of 
 these cases happen when your near some obstacle, and it doesn't matter if it really is on your 
 way or not. This can really piss you off, if you can't do a roll, but you have to turn your side 
 towards a possible enemy to get to wanted position.
  
  There's so much to say about all the stuff you can have, so I'll separate it to weapons and other 
 stuff.
  For weapons, I have to say that there's a huge amount of them. Jagged Alliance's and Co have had 
 plenty of weapons to go with, but Brigade E5 blows the bank by introducing a good variety of bullet-throwers. 
 As somekind of an example, I think there's like maybe six or seven shotguns and a few automatic 
 shotguns, and almost all of'em are combat-versions of the models. Happen to know the G36 -assault 
 rifle? Well, so far I've encountered four different kinds of G36-series rifle's. Same with MP5's, 
 there's at least MP5SD, original model and one with folding butt, plus MP5K and MP5K-PDW. Of course, 
 there's always something to add to the store when it comes to guns, but this has to be enough at 
 least.
  Depending on the model of the weapon, certain equipment can be attached to your weapon to enchance 
 the shooting experience. This includes scopes of many kind, bipods, bayonets, laser sights, tactical 
 lighting, grenade launchers and even a shotgun under your barrell (not that this would be unheard 
 of, but it's the first time I've seen it in a game) and of course silencers. As an extra-fine detail, 
 not every add-on fits to every gun. WR-railing required only fit to one's with WR-rails (well duh) 
 and so on, which adds more precious feeling to your weapon when you've finally managed to find 
 that long sought after scope or similar.
  Information about weapons are good too. You can see the time it takes to shoot with it, time it 
 takes to ready it, how scarce are the ammunition etc, the damage in numbers, chart how well it 
 actually works and how far, etc. This gives you a good idea about the real potential of the weapon 
 you're holding.
  As a great addition, now it makes a difference wether your weapons butt is foldable or not, because 
 when you fold it, it takes less space, making some weapons possible to fit into slots that have 
 room for a pistol-sized object at best. MP5K and MP5K-PDW along with smaller Uzi's are prime example 
 about this. Also, since people tend to have two hands, you can now put away the gun to hang onto 
 your shoulder. This provides a perfect way to put a gun and grab a grenade or something, since 
 the shoulder works nearly instantly, compared to going to grab the gun from your backpack or something.
 
  Also, as a prime example about small ideas, we can now do dual-clips with certain clip-types by 
 using ductape to hold'em together. It took 10 years to get someone actually do this in to a game. 
 Grenades also come in various versions, from offensive and defensive grenades to smoke- and stun 
 grenades. There's also some throwing knives and just plain knives available for using, but I personally 
 don't have much experience about'em, since I tend to finish unconscious opponents just by beating 
 and kicking'em to death (yes, I'm such a charmer, aren't I) .
  
  For gear, some massively fine ideas have been included. First off, you start with just your shoulders 
 (for bigger weapons than handguns) and your pockets, that you can fit a pistol into at max. There 
 are few ways to increase the space. You can do that with vest with pockets, a backpack and a belt, 
 where you can add some sort of bigger pocket or two, depending on the belt type. And of course, 
 the time to pick items varies depending where you are fetching it, so putting spare clips to your 
 backpack along with grenades isn't really the best idea.
  Generally speaking there should be enough space to put stuff into, usually your guy's weight limit 
 comes across faster than you'd be out of space in your inventory with full gear.
  Also, a few different kinds of protective gear are available, namely a vest and a helmet (which 
 due some gender discriminating bug doesn't fit for women) , that give you moderate shielding, but 
 definetely do not make you invulnarable, since they mostly block shots only from front, if even 
 from there.
  I mentioned ductape and grenades, but there is more. Different kind of mine's, claymore's with 
 remote detonators, tripwire's, gun cleaning kit (yes, your weapons get dirty and might jam, instead 
 of just plain wearing from use) , different sets of medical supplies and so on.
  As another fantastic small idea, the game introduces something as simple as clips to weapons. No 
 longer you order full clips of ammunition from store and get rid of'em after use. Now, you need 
 to have clips to put the ammo into, unless you like to spend a lot of time during battle by inserting 
 ammunition to your empty clip. A great detail that adds sense of realism and does indeed make a 
 difference.
  
  Combat is generally fun, and by generally I mean there are still some annoying bugs and things, 
 and it can be really difficult at times.
  First of all, I've never gotten very used to how the camera pans. I think they should have spent 
 a bit more time with it, and not let the blind guy from Bangladesh do it. Also the camera doesn't 
 always let you see properly, because it gets stuck on buildings and tree's instead of going through 
 them. Same thing with the battlefield : since it ends to emptiness that could be considered as 
 a wall, having your guys next to that sector line and looking outward from behind their backs is 
 nigh impossible to do, because the camera doesn't bend or go further away from the playground. 
 But thankfully, all this can be somewhat work out somehow and you can still enjoy the game despite 
 this obvious flaw.
  Your mercenaries can fire a few different kind of shots. Normal shot and aimed are the two options 
 you have always available. Also there can be a sort of a hip-shot, that's fast but only accurate 
 in short range, so it's good enough for sudden surprises etc. Also, both single and bursts are 
 included in all shot modes. Some weapons have also their proper burst limiters (for example MP5's 
 to three shots, G36's to two, etc) as an option instead of full burst. Additionally, if I'm not 
 mistaken, when taking a full burst, it also shows the odds of shots hitting (9 of 10, etc) , which 
 can give you a rough idea what should be happening.
  With aimed shot, you can aim also other spots than just body. These include legs, left and right 
 arm and head, with proper results (shoot a good enough shot to legs -&gt; immobilized, and to hand (s) 
 -&gt; weapons flies off) . Naturally, headshots tend to be lot more dangerous one's than bodyshots, 
 but you can still die from even one proper bodyshot while wearing the armor. There lies one fine 
 factor in this game, a notch towards realism. Nobody, not even your own guys, can withstand a critical 
 hit in body or head -area, it's pretty much an automatic instant kill. This is also great, because 
 you may not have to shoot more than once each guy, giving that the shoot is good enough.
  
  One thing that is very combat related feature, is your character and their skills. Skills go up 
 by doing the respective skills, and the higher the skill, the better the guy is doing that skill. 
 But, Brigade introduces us a heartbeat, which has a direct effect on what you are doing and how 
 well you might be doing it. Heartbeat makes possible to actually do the longwaited suppressing 
 fire, because when you get fired upon and you are not a complete hard-boiled soldier, your heartbeat 
 tends to rise and your shooting goes somewhat down the drain. Also, from certain events, such as 
 a grenade exploding in range etc, you might go to a short-period shock, and depending on your merc's 
 gunfight -skill (which controlls the coolness under fire I think) , you can snap out of it quick 
 or stay in panic and not be able to hit anything. Pretty amazing thing really, but also such a 
 frustrading feat if your mercenaries have low skill in gunfight. Only option then is to back off 
 to cover and cool down and/or wait there.
  
  Why is combat so hard then? Well, it's mostly because sometimes A. I gets lucky and/or just works 
 intelligently enough. They throw grenades after certain point in the game and force you to flee 
 away from'em, etc. A. I isn't great, but it does somewhat the same moves that you can, do you can 
 expect to see opponents come around corners and roll on ground just like you do, just maybe not 
 as often. Also, they seem to know that you get better shots while prone, and like to take'em. They 
 do, however, come like pigs to slaughter through the door if that's the way in, so nothing spectacular 
 in it, yet nothing we hadn't seen before.
  By A. I getting lucky I mean the frustrading lucky shots they get. Sure, sun shines occasionally 
 even to dogs a... rear, but it starts to get on your nerves when your guy with HK G3 -rifle with 
 scope and bipod is prone on the ground shooting but can't get good hits, and he get's a shot in 
 the head or body that instantly kills him, and it came from like a guy with a shotgun 50 meters 
 away, ie. beyond 'ghostly' in hit possibility. Also, at certain positions near a corner, you can 
 see the guy, the guy can see you and can shoot you, but you can't shoot him. So basically the game 
 mechanics ruin some of it, because it makes no clear information wether the guy is going to hit 
 the wall he's being next to or not. I mean, I'm no gun expert, but I would propably know if I'm 
 going to be able to shoot the guy or the wall that is next to me.
  
  That's pretty much for the gameplay. The story of the game goes that you sign up to some party 
 (NDF as goverment, smugglers or rebels) and do missions for'em, so there is no Jagged Alliance 
 like of controlling sectors and advancing gradually. Sure, the situation lives a bit and some depot's 
 and towns change owner sometimes, but it takes quite an effort for you just to demolish the opposition 
 right away.
  The missions are pretty much of the basic pattern of go there and kill this guy/these guys . Couple 
 of different kinds of go talk to this guy are available too, but it's pretty plain really. And 
 usually the payment is not in par with the effort really. Getting 5,000$ for killing over 20 soldiers 
 with two merc's doesn't really seem worth it, but you can get some money off of the scrounged stuff 
 from the field. To help you carry all this and move around, there's a few different types of vehicles 
 for you to buy and drive around with, and also store gear. This becomes great help of emptying 
 sectors of stuff after fight, since your merc's can only carry so much. As a neat little detail, 
 you can point a driver for your car, so only the driver looses energy while driving.
  
  So, is the game any good? Yes, definetely worth a try, but a classic game, no. It has great amount 
 of new ideas, brilliant combat and lots of stuff to play and dress up your merc's with, but all 
 this is hampered by half-assed release and the lack of final touch. Getting over the poor graphics 
 wouldn't be a big step if the game would be otherwise flawless or close to it, but since for other 
 than combat it's very plain (no character development of anykind really) and it still has some 
 annoying and gameplay-effecting bugs, so it lands quickly to bargain-bin and propably people will 
 never pick it up even from there, which is a huge loss to people who love the genre.
  
  I hope the sequel of Brigade E5, called '7.62', will be done and released in proper manner worldwide, 
 since the developers certainly showed that they CAN do a good game with fresh and new things when 
 they want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g-suns
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Just to do the game justice - it 100% has the best / realistic combat engine among tactical squad 
 games. And that is what matters in first lines for a tactical game, isn't it. It follows the principle 
 that realism is the best way to improve gameplay.
  
  It would take a page or two just to describe all the fine details that make it so great and realistic.
 
  - The weapons are in hordes, realistic by features and great looking. Just to mention that they 
 get dirty, wear down (faster if dirty) , get overheated and jammed. There are some balance issues 
 among them, but the flaws would be considered minor for any game.
  - Adrenaline and fatigue integrated.
  - Innovative movement options - there is hardly anything 
 else to wish for. Anything beyond would reach in the field of acrobatics.
  - Considerations of managing equipment are focused on like never before. There is a whole hierarchy 
 of pockets and bags that differ in speed of access and capacity.
  - Good (if not the best up to date) AI: enemies flank you, throw grenades and generally pose much 
 more challenge (and surprise you) than ever before.
  
  Taken all together, this is the first tactical game that enables (and pushes) to use real-life 
 tactics. You would also find yourself using full spectrum of weapons throughout the game. (E. g., 
 here pistols are useful as a secondary weapon and for clearing buildings, although in any other 
 tactical game they get useless starting from mid-game.)
  
  The problems. I will not list all the problems for that is done throughoutly by many before... 
 it would also take twice as many pages as for the good stuff. To say shortly, anything else except 
 combat engine is average at best.
  
  Anyway, a tactical game fan would love it no matter what! (So do I.) Looking forward to see anybody 
 put these great features into a good casing, for this is an unpolished jewel.
  
  Kaspars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TurinTur
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  (Bear with my english, i am not a native speaker :P)
  
  Let's see, this game is hard to judge because it's very extremist. The good things about this game 
 are very good, the rest range from average to plain bad.
  
  So Brigade E5 it's a game with graphics from 6 years ago, poor sound (except the guns) , some secundary 
 bugs and glitches, scenarios somewhat empty, without RPG or adventure or strategy aspects worthy 
 of note, sloppy translation, and some design issues at the end of the campaign, when you have to 
 conquer all. And the multiplayer option is very buggy, with lots of CTDs.
  
  Sounds horrible, doesn't it? But that's the bad part only, let's see the overall product.
  
 
  The first thing you need to know about Brigade E5: New Jagged Union is that is an old school game: 
 -It's a hard game, never impossible, but very hard nonetheless.
  -It's a long game, you need more than 60 hours to finish the campaign. -You are at your own, if 
 you make a bad decision, the game doesn't warn you, so it's your call to take care of your actions.
 
  -It's a very focused game. Other games from the same subgenre chose to have the tacticap part, 
 the combat, and the strategy part (like UFO, or in less amount, JA2) . Brigade E5 is much more centered 
 in only one thing, the tactical combat. Therefore, that part shines, but the campaign that links 
 all the battles is much more weak. The quests are only an excuse to move your ass here or there, 
 and to have some battles in the travel or at the destination. Between battles, your options are 
 to contract mercs, buty/sell weapons, and to take another quest. There isn't ambient dialog, so 
 the atmosphere of the game suffers. But you have to think that at least the campaign is not linear, 
 the number and types of battles are not decided beforehand like Fallout Tactics of Ghost Recon, 
 in a linear design (yes, perhaps Ghost Recon is a good game to compare, instead of UFO) .
  
  So let's speak about the good part. It will be easy:
  --Best tactical combat ever -- . And i have 
 around 15 years of experience in PC games, with hundreds of games played ;) . Now with more detail:
 
  
  *First, it uses the system first seen in Europa Universalis, a strategy game from Paradox. It's 
 a real time system, but pausable (and you can assign orders in pause) with adjustable speed. The 
 game will pause automatically (and you can also change these settings) when something happens, 
 like a new enemy appears or a player's soldier is without orders. So finally the debate between 
 real time vs turn based is over, this system is just perfect for this type of game, with the virtues 
 of each system.
  *Second, it's incredible realistic. The ballistic model, the damage model, the weapon model (the 
 game tracks temperature, wear, dirt, balance, weight, type of magazine and ammo, barrel lenght, 
 optics, etc, for each shot) , all is top notch. Earch soldier has a health level, adrenaline level 
 (you can suprress anyone firing lots of lead, the adrenaline level will rise, and he will have 
 worse accuracy) , energy level, etc.
  *Third, it's incredible detailed. For example, if you take something from a pocket your action 
 will have a lenght of x seconds, and that amount will be different if the pocket is in your chest 
 or if from your pants or the belt. Or each grenade have a diffrent explosion radius and different 
 amount of sharpnels, which flies in real time, hurting everyone in his path. Or the armor, it covers 
 the right parts of the body, with different % of protection in the front, sides and rear.
  *Fourth, tactically speaking is very deep. All this detail and realism isn't for guns freaks, it 
 is translated into the game to engrossing, inmersive tactical situations, different in each battle. 
 And the game innovate in little things like new movements, you can roll in the ground, or you can 
 turn a corner very fast, making a dynamic entry.
  *Fifth, the AI, without being brilliant, is good, with some actions where you will be surprised 
 by his quality. If you are firing at the enemy at night with suppressed weapons, he will begin 
 to fire at your general direction. They uses nades to flush you out of buildings, they cover themselves, 
 and advance in groups, overwatching in turns. They can use special movements like the fast turn 
 in corners, and usually two or three soldiers will detach from his group and will try to flank 
 you.
  *Six, tons and tons of weapons and gear. Hundreds of weapons, ammo types, scopes, bayonets, grenade 
 launchers, aimpoints, Acogs, special drums, variants of some weapons, wires for traps, etc etc. 
 The guns lovers will be in heaven, and not only them, just think the tactical possibilities of 
 all this!
  
  In the end, a game with a stellar virtue, the gameplay with lots of secundary aspects forgotten, 
 or just weak. But in the end if you like the combat, it will be worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commander_T
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 27, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I'm really enjoying this game allot! Because of the fighting. And that all that really matters 
 for me. The sounds is just there to know when your in a fight or when you see a enemy or something 
 like that. Graphics i could care less JA2 has crappy graphics and every body loves that game. As 
 i said it's all in the game play sure it might have a little glitch here and there but it's so 
 funny to get money and to get weapons that are to expensive and having a bank account and discounts 
 on some guns. I like that you can chose to be faster or more camouflaged. This game has a lot more 
 to work on but still a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bolshevika
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 16, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  This is a game that is going to remind you a lot about other, better games. Thats okay, because 
 if you liked those games, there is a good chance you'll like this game.
  
  Jagged Union is a game set in a fictional tropical Island that is being crushed under the jackbooted 
 heel of a cruel dictatorship. As a mercenary your job is to either help overthrow the government, 
 help crush the revolution, or help the islands organized crime syndicate rake in the cash. If all 
 this sounds kind of familiar, thats because it is. If you've already played Jagged Alliance 2, 
 you've already played a better version of this game. Thats not to say you should just give this 
 one a miss though, and I'll tell you why.
  
  Gunp0rn:
  
  Thats what we call it. More guns then even Jagged Alliance could shake an AKM at, and so many pieces 
 of optional hardware for them that people who look for that kind of thing will be very happy. The 
 stats for the weapons are not hardcore real world, but they are close enough for me, and I've got 
 several years of military service, and a lot of real world use under my belt. By the end of the 
 game, you'll have guns coming out the wazoo, but you'll probably find a couple you really like 
 and stick to them. Gun wear and condition is tracked as well, so carry a cleaning kit with you 
 and visit a dealer every so often to make sure your weapon stays in good shape, or it will jam 
 at an inopportune moment.
  
  Real Time with Pause:
  
  Let me just say, I hate real time with pause games. I was really hoping this would be a solid turn 
 based game, and it simply isn't turn based. Actually, thats a good thing. Unlike Jagged Alliance, 
 where every action costs a character action points, and everyone takes their turn like a nice little 
 soldier (Barring interrupts) everything is happening at the same time for everyone. Certain character 
 and weapon stats affect the speed at which these things occur, but generally there is no polite 
 waiting. If three people come around a corner, they wont do it one at a time as their turn comes 
 up, they'll do it all at once and, just as in real life, you will have to deal with them all at 
 once.
  
  The pause feature is good, and you can issue all orders while paused. The game will pause for anything 
 on its long list of events, which you can modify at will. At first I didn't want to like this feature, 
 but after spending time with it, I realized it forces me to use more realistic strategies to win, 
 and thats a good thing in my book.
  
  Branching Campaign:
  
  Not unlike JA2's campaign, you are given a large map, a couple of locations on it, a basic goal 
 based on which side you chose to support during character creation, and thats it. More locations 
 will be revealed as you discover or are told about them. The Campaign story is where the game is 
 really weak, but it makes up for it by giving you a sandbox to shoot up to your hearts content. 
 The fact that you can be working for as many as 2 of the opposing sides at once really gives your 
 mercenary a very, well, mercenary feel. There are also many Side Quests that can net you anything 
 from discounts at stores, high interest bank accounts, cold hard cash or high end weapons. They 
 are worth doing, although they tend to stick to Fed Ex or Execution jobs. For the English version, 
 the translation is very poor, although somewhat comical in an unintentional way. This may be a 
 deal breaker for some, others, like me, can play the Russian version to avoid this.
  
  AI:
  
  This is where things get a little mucky. The AI is not brilliant. It will run around 
 blind corners, sit from too far away shooting at you when it can't possibly hit you (Unless you 
 get very unlucky) and waste the occasional grenade. It will also mercilessly suppress and flank 
 you. It will flush you out with explosives and even wait for you to emerge from cover on your own. 
 When its good, its brutal but rewarding to fight. When its bad, it makes you forget it can be clever. 
 Overall, a very mixed bag.
  
  Mercenaries:
  Your starting Character, and the one with whom you will spend the most time, is actually chosen 
 from one of 6 base characters, whose abilities are then customized by you in a brief Interview 
 where you also choose what side to support initially. The rest of the soldiers you pick up will 
 be located in Pubs and Taverns around the game world, waiting to be hired. They can be very expensive, 
 and lack the personality of the JA games, but they will serve you well and quest giving citizens 
 reactions do tend to change based on what mercenary is talking to them.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  There is a lot to not like about this game. Its graphics are sub par, the game itself has several 
 strange and sometimes game stopping glitches. The translation to English is rough, at best. The 
 story is virtually non existent. So why would you play this game? The gameplay, while not superb, 
 is very solid. If you can get over the bumps, a violent and fun sandbox game awaits you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Okrucky
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 11, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  ok so there are a lot of things wrong with this game:
  
  1. a lack of the ability to develop the characters in the game
  
  2. the manual is useless 
 (it toke me near an hour to figure out how to use a med kit {admittedly it was close to 2 am and 
 all i need it to do was right click but come on how hard is it to say to use items right click 
 in the manual)
  
  3. there is no story once so ever and whatever story there really is is made worse by bad translation 
 4. bad graphics and recycled locals for random encounters but despite that i actually like this 
 game because the combat system is great. though pausable real time games are not a new thing it 
 is rare enough that it being put into a game is very welcome add that to all the wonderful, options 
 you have and you got some pretty fun battles. and the shear number of weapons and gear is a plus. 
 i just wish that the game could have done a little more with the system (like maybe had destructible 
 environments like silent storm) added a bit more story and role playing elements and it could have 
 been a classic though die hard fans will probably sting me up for saying it i think that Bethesda 
 (probably spelled wrong but it thats the only spelling error on this thing i would be shocked) 
 should take a good hard look at the combat system of this game when making fall out 3 (god i REALLY 
 hope that the don't turn fall out into elder scrolls 6) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimrhurst
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  It's simply a shame that there wasn't more effort put into this game. The game engine is actually 
 rather novel and dynamic while staying fairly intuitive and flexible. Actions are accounted for 
 in real seconds rather than abstract action points while configurable pause triggers keep the action 
 from devolving into a frantic click-fest. This gives the game a sense of realism and fairness without 
 sacrificing the strategic advantages of the slower-paced, traditional turn-based strategy. The 
 variety of weapons and combat options available extend the enjoyment of an otherwise very two-dimensional 
 gameworld. Gamespot user cesarjose1979 was dead-on when he described this game as soulless. The 
 story is virtually non-existent, the dialog minimalistic and broken, and the role-playing elements 
 DOA. Although the plot and quests are easier to follow than, say, Hammer and Sickle (2005 by Nival 
 Interactive) , they lack interest and depth beyond the usual tired fare. Character options show 
 some initial promise, but the customization system is incomprehensible and the character development 
 ends at the opening cut scene.
  
  Add dismal graphics and very limited sound to the skeletal writing and you have a title destined 
 for the same bargain-bin grave of mediocrity that seems to claim so many of these Eastern European 
 strategy imports. Unless you are a die-hard turn-based tactical aficionado (like me!) then you 
 are better off to spend your money elsewhere. On the other hand, if you are still splitting your 
 time evenly between the original XCOM and JA2, then this could be a welcome, if temporary distraction. 
 I only wish that someone would take the ideas in a game like this and put a bit of production value 
 behind it for a change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robhyde
Rating: 4.4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  I like the old X-Com games and played Jagged Alliance a few times so I thought I'd give this one 
 a shot.
  
  Unfortunately although the array of weapons on offer is impressive and the realtime engine works 
 reasonably there just isn't enough in the game to make you keep playing.
  
  +ve
  - Lots of guns
  - Nice weapon models
  - Weaponary feels authentic
  
  -ve
  - Translation 
 to English is poor
  - Constant ambush battles are annoying
  - The game gets worse the more mercs you have as the you have to spend 90% of the battles paused.
 
  
  Give this one a miss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cesarjose1979
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 27, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is poorly translate and still feels very much like a game in beta phase testing. Never 
 the less, it is for those of you who enjoy tactical combat in a turn based style. You will probably 
 enjoy the combat engine in this game it feel almost complete but not by any means perfect. Don't 
 expect much else though, it is a soul less game. All through the game I am constantly being thrown 
 back wondering what the point of this game is? What am I trying to accomplish here? The story or 
 lack there off does noting to draw you in. The only redeeming value this game has is as stated 
 above its combat system. I keep finding my self going back to the game to see what new weapon I 
 can find and use on my enemies.
  
  I do not understand why Strategy First would release a game that has not been completed. One can 
 only hope for their companies sake they do not make a habit of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogaty
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 2, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  The game's tactical combat engine is first rate. It offers up a degree of control that's much more 
 sophisticated than any other we've seen in a PC tactical combat game. Characters can move about 
 in a variety of stances, quick turn around corners with weapons at the ready, hose areas with surpressing 
 fire, pump rounds through walls and floors, and a myriad other things. Weapons jam, get dirty, 
 get worn, get shot out of your hands. Fatigue and adrenaline can affect your aim as well as your 
 judgement. Inventory is handled in such a way that not only are you limited as to what you can 
 carry, deciding where to place gear has an effect on combat. Keeping a spare magazine in an ammo 
 bandolier will allow you to fish it out much more quickly than if you have it in your front pocket, 
 jumbled up with a wad of cash and some credit cards.
  
  It's a shame then that there is no actual game to compliment the combat engine. You watch a cut 
 scene that informs you you're in some fictitious South American country as a mercenary, you had 
 been taken prisoner and then released and compelled to work for... someone. From this you're launched 
 into a multiple choice quiz which allows you to fine tune your character. You also select which 
 of the three in game factions you wish to ally yourself with.
  
  From there, you're launched into the game world and a dull world it is. You are presented with 
 an overhead map and you select travel destinations on that map. You then set a slider with allows 
 to to control the route and speed of movement. You can set it for maximum speed which will follow 
 the road, or maximum cover and awareness which will slow you down but make ambushes much less likely.
 
  
  Destinations on the map are gradually revealed as you pass by or are informed of them by NPC encounters. 
 These encounters are typically dull, lifeless affairs filled with uninspiring, generic dialogue. 
 These cardboard cut out NPCs also give you jobs to do to earn cash which you use to hire fellow 
 mercenaries and buy new gear, vehicles, etc. The jobs are pretty dull, time limited affairs along 
 the lines of deliver good A to city B within X number of days and you'll get Y amount of dollars. 
 or Kill X gangsters before Y day and you'll get a reward. 
  
  It really feels unfinished and bare bones. I'm a little surpirsed by this as previews for the game 
 all made a point of letting people know that the JA2 script writer was involved in creating E5.
 
  
  Graphics are pretty spartan. Terrain looks especially poor. Sounds aren't much better. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
