-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: British Open Championship Golf
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/britishopenchampionshipgolf/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 20, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.5, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 12 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Looking Glass Studios
Genre: Golf Sim
Date:     Apr 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
British Open Championship Golf is a unique entry into the world of golf sims that is sadly brought 
 down by a few flaws. 

 It would seem a fool's errand to enter a field as crowded with stiff competition as golf simulation. 
 But if anyone can face up to the challenge, it's . Not only do they have a proven ability with 
 graphics rendering and real-world physics, but the team is also headed by the man who pretty much 
 invented the computer golf simulation. Rex Bradford not only programmed Mean 18 - the first computer 
 golf game - but also created the sadly UNpatented "power bar," which has been used in every subsequent 
 game.   

 Add in the exclusive license to re-create the most revered golf course in the world, another exclusive 
 license with the oldest and most prestigious golf tournament in the world, and the announcing talent 
 of ABC's Jim McKay, and you have a pretty good recipe for success. But does British Open Championship 
 Golf make the most of this recipe? For the most part, yes it does.  

 As golf sims begin to blend together, BOCG strives to carve out a style uniquely its own and largely 
 succeeds. First off is the look, one of the most important parts of any golf sim. BOCG's graphics, 
 which are scaleable up to 1024 x 768, stretch out to the horizon, with elegantly rendered terrain 
 and detailed objects. Since the game models links courses - which tend to be open and flat - the 
 effect is important in capturing the feel of the location. Instead of golfing through a tunnel 
 of trees, you're aiming for the St. Andrews clubhouse. There's a kind of hazing effect, almost 
 like watercoloring, that also adds to the unique look, and helps evoke the misty, gray weather 
 of the British links.  

 Another visual element that radically sets BOCG off from the pack is the presence of crowds. Golf 
 sims have always been very solitary experiences, and British Open changes that. Onlookers gather 
 to watch and react to shots. They're not very animated, but they do make the proper "oo" and "ah" 
 noises for good and bad shots. A satellite view and another viewing window of your choice can be 
 open at all times. Viewing angles are handled well, with custom camera placement and instant reverse 
 angles. Control is a mixed bag. Aiming is efficient, but the yardage information for your aiming 
 spot often disappears before you can read it. You can aim in any open window, and swinging is done 
 with the familiar three-stage power bar. The best element of the control interface is the shot 
 designer. In most golf games, you have the option of changing club height or angle and foot placement, 
 but it's hard to tell just how this affects a shot. In BOCG's shot designer, several pre-designed 
 shots are included to show you the basics. As you change things like foot placement, you see just 
 how the shot will play. You can then save effective shots for use later. This is probably the best 
 custom shot builder in any game to date.  

 Shots themselves respond very realistically and the physics modeling is one of the strongest yet. 
 Unfortunately, there is an apparent glitch in the swing interface that causes the power bar to 
 run at varying speeds mid-swing, resulting in an occasional hitch in the flow of the swing that 
 can greatly reduce accuracy. The putting swing meter is novel, being a flat meter instead of a 
 circle, but putting introduces a new set of problems. Greens are very hard to read, and the grid 
 is quite badly implemented. The result? Too many unnecessarily bad putts. This is a shame considering 
 the overall excellence of the design, and it will hopefully be fixed.  

 Play and scoring options include stroke, match best ball, tournament, practice, and single hole. 
 Tournament play is where BOCG floors all the competition. You can begin at several points in the 
 British Open, against a leaderboard filled with the greats of the game. As you go through the rounds 
 of a tournie, you watch your position change on the leaderboard, the crowd around you waxes and 
 wanes, and the competitors grind you into the dust. The commentary is terrific, with few repetitions 
 and much interesting, relevant, and accurate patter. From the camera towers to the VIP tents, this 
 IS the British Open experience, and it's a competitive golf experience second to none.  

 The most important element of BOCG is the courses. Only two ship with it - and Royal Troon - but 
 these are two of the greatest courses in the world, and you'll only play them here (at least until 
 someone makes versions) . These are links courses: Devilishly difficult to play but not the lush, 
 manicured, ersatz-Augusta courses we expect in the US. British Open captures them beautifully, 
 with every bunker and hill modeled to perfection. Detailed strategy videos begins each game, giving 
 some history and insight into the course. Your onscreen caddy (another first) also has a course 
 book with him that you can access from any shot, with advice on the best way to play a hole.   
 

 British Open Championship Golf is a unique entry into the world of golf sims that is sadly brought 
 down by a few flaws. The last and maybe greatest of these flaws is the absence of multiplayer capabilities, 
 though Looking Glass is working on this now. If the swing worked a little more consistently and 
 putting was handled better, this could have been recommended without hesitation. As it is, it's 
 still a good game with much to offer.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rotondawest
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2009 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Very few people fully appreciate this game. When it was released by Looking Glass it did not fair 
 well and shortly thereafter, found it's way to Soft Key and a stripped down version. Unfortunately 
 most players only found the single golf course version offered at a deep discount. I am very fortunate 
 to have not one, but two copies of the original 2 CD disk set. I suppose if you live in a big city 
 and you have a new and used computer game outlet, you may be fortunate enough to find the original 
 box set. 
  This is the total golf experience that I am still waiting to show up from another publisher. First 
 of all, The British Open Championship atmosphere is fantastic. With professional commentary, an 
 interactive caddie, interactive galleries, wonderful music and sound effects.
  The two golf courses are challenging and unique to play for a PC game ( St Andrews and Royal Troon 
 ) . They never play or look the same each time out. The graphics are natural looking and not the 
 bright, eye candy we are used to. This can be a very difficult play, depending on how tough you 
 set the computer AI.
  Get the largest LCD screen you can ( 24" or larger if possible ) and crank up surround sound if 
 possible and immerse yourself in what I have found to be my most favorite golf game on any platform.
 
  Kudos to Rex Bradford and company for this rare flash of gaming brilliance.
  John M. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatm781
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 3, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  British Championship Golf is my only golf game and I enjoyed it for what it is worth. 
  
  Gameplay: Well this one pretty much explains itself you play golf. You get to select from a couple 
 of characters which you can name. You can select which country they are from and other things such 
 as the clubs they use and so on. The game was decent for a golf game, it follows the game well 
 but the controls were a little of for my taste.
  
  Graphics: This is an old game so for its time the graphics were good but still they werent great, 
 the animations and the golf green didnt look awesome but it wasnt horrible either.
  
  Sound: This games sound was great the voices, the crowds, the ball sounds, and everything else 
 sounded like it should. But the music was kind of repetitive and the game was a little quiet for 
 my taste. Overall the sound was pretty darn good.
  
  This game isnt really worth it now because of the Tiger Woods games but I enjoyed it and I am 
 sure others would too. If you have an older machine and need a cheep and effective golf fix than 
 British Championship Golf is a good game worth your time. However if you have a console or a better 
 PC than I suggest you look at Tiger Woods.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
