-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Broken Sword: The Smoking Mirror
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/brokenswordthesmokingmirror/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 25, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.1, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 705 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Virgin Interactive
Developer: Revolution Soft.
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 31, 1997 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's Circle of Blood with new characters, a new storyline, and a new threat to world harmony.

 The house is on fire, a poisonous spider is crawling closer, and George Stobbart is tied up and 
 in big trouble once again. George clearly didn't get his fill of mysticism, murder, and exotic-location 
 mystery solving in the Circle of Blood because he and Nicole Collard (Nico) are back, caught this 
 time in a smuggler's web that leads directly back to the dark Maya god Tezcatlipoca.  

 But they don't know that initially. It's only through extensive travel and chat with strange characters 
 that George and Nico discover what's really going on. Locations, of course, are one of the strongest 
 draws this game has - as was the case in Circle of Blood. London, the Caribbean, the docks of Marseilles, 
 and, of course, Central America and Maya ruins are each artfully and realistically re-created, 
 providing the very distinctive sense of place necessary to fully immerse you in the game.   

 Pointing and clicking will get you from beginning to end, with stops along the way to pick up 
 various items. Gameplay has several new features, the most prominent being that Nico is no longer 
 merely a sidekick. When she and George split up to tackle different parts of the mystery (and the 
 globe) , you'll play first as one, then as the other, until both characters get what it was they 
 went for. The puzzles, for the most part, are straightforward and logical. One or two may require 
 the "try every item with every clickable object on the screen" approach, but most can be addressed 
 with a little thought and ingenuity - and most move the story forward. In fact, hard-core gamers 
 may find a number of the "make this machine work" or "get this guy out of the way so you can get 
 the clue" puzzles easy, though there are definitely a few challenges towards the end.   

 A couple of things have changed since the Circle of Blood days. One of the most noticeable is that 
 George no longer has to end every conversation with a "See ya later" or "Nice talking to you." 
 Now, George has polite openers and good-byes, but he only uses them once or twice. Hence if you 
 go back to talk to the guard yet another time, you can just jump right into the conversation and 
 then walk away when you're done - a blissful improvement.   

 Gameplay has been streamlined as well as dialogue; it's more linear. There's no map and in only 
 one area do you have more than one choice about where to go next. Essentially, you're in an area 
 to find a specific thing or solve a specific puzzle and once you've done it you're done with that 
 area.   

 One disappointment was the insufficient information about Tezcatlipoca and Maya civilization altogether. 
 One of the best and most interesting parts of Circle of Blood was the historical background on 
 the Knights Templar - you learned some actual history as you played. Although parts of Tezcatlipoca 
 and the Maya culture were discussed, I continued to hope for more, right up until the very end 
 of the game. The Maya are every bit as fascinating as the Templars - if not more so - and I found 
 myself searching the Web for several hours after finishing the game, looking for background and 
 more detailed information on Maya gods.  

 This, however, is a minor complaint. George is slightly more sophisticated (a consequence of all 
 that traveling he did in Circle of Blood no doubt) , Nico has been fleshed out a bit and takes on 
 a few adventures of her own, and the quirky humor of Circle of Blood raises its oddball head once 
 more (i. e., the minor character who gets up from his desk only to reveal that he works in bikini 
 underwear - not pants - because it makes him feel friskier) . It's Circle of Blood with new characters, 
 a new storyline, a new threat to world harmony, and a few omissions and additions that help to 
 streamline the adventure.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 9:54 am PT
Review:  Broken Sword II: The Smoking Mirror is the sequel to the hugely popular The Shadow of the Templars, 
 developed by Revolution Software and released in late 1997. This point-and-click adventure game 
 will again see you travelling across the globe, delving into the interesting Aztec history and 
 meeting many different characters along the way. Despite keeping the core ideas of the franchise, 
 The Smoking Mirror still manages to be a worthy follow-up to an excellent game.
  
  You again take the role of American tourist George Stobbart, and the opening cinematic sees him 
 and Nico Collard (now his girlfriend) visit Professor Oubier's house in Paris. However, things 
 take a turn for the worst when the pair are knocked out, and George wakes up to find a poisonous 
 spider crawling towards him, the door blocked by fire, and his beloved Nico kidnapped. After escaping 
 from Oubier's house, George sets out to get to the bottom on what happened and where Nico is. He 
 soon finds himself delving into the story of Aztec God Tezcatlipoca and collecting all of the ancient 
 Mayan stones. This is definitely Broken Sword.
  
  Familiar faces from the first game make a welcomed return, such as Duane and Pearl. As fellow tourists 
 they don't feel out of place at all, and thanks Duane's conspiracy-ridden brain he has some of 
 the best lines in the game. Perhaps less welcomed by George is Andr Lobineau, who shows up at 
 the very start of the game outside a French cafe. He only appears for a very brief time though, 
 which works well due to his substantial role in The Shadow of the Templars. A whole cast of new 
 faces appear too, from the women lover General Grasiento to the baked-bean lover guard at the dock. 
 Meeting all the different characters is a treat, and they all have individual personalities and 
 dynamism.
  
  Luckily the brilliant Charles Cecil makes a return to provide the voice for George, although the 
 voice actor for Nico has changed. It is a shame as there was nothing wrong with the original, but 
 the new Nico is just as good. It isn't just the main characters who have perfectly suited voices 
 either. Every single line spoken matches that character perfectly, in both delivery and writing. 
 Never will a voice feel out of place, instead it immerses you in the experience and really helps 
 you connect with the people. The music throughout the game is not memorable, but there are clever 
 moments where a character is about to reveal new information, and a musical track kicks in to signify 
 this.
  
  One thing that didn't carry over from the first game was the length. The Smoking Mirror is a linear 
 game, and won't make you backtrack to previous locations to pick up items or talk to characters. 
 Once you've moved on from somewhere, that is basically it. This makes the game easier, but also 
 helps keep the pace going. Sadly, it also detracts from the time it will take you to complete the 
 game. It is noticeably much shorter than The Shadow of the Templars, and it certainly shows with 
 the ending cutscene which - although grand - feels rushed and leaves some plot advancements unexplained.
 
  
  The same unique visual style has remained, and the seamlessly transitioned animated cutscenes sprinkled 
 throughout help retain interest. The bright graphics again hide a mature side to the game, and 
 even more so this time round. There are a few swear words, full-on views of someone being shot, 
 and of course the gruesome ending cutscene which has to be seen to be experienced. However, these 
 are rarities and the witty dialogue and the vibrant locations take the forefront of the game's 
 themes. There are also some new graphical effects, allowing different levels of shadows on everything 
 that moves in the game, exampled when George walks into the forest and his body is instantly darker. 
 There is a lot of movement going on in the scenery, whether that be birds flying past or characters 
 moving around and talking, which makes the game livelier.
  
  Gameplay remains as a 2D point-and-click, clicking on items to look at them or pick them up, and 
 clicking on people to talk to them. Whereas the first Broken Sword only allowed you to play as 
 George Stobbart, sometimes at a scene end it'll switch over to a different location and allow you 
 to take control of Nico Collard. Controlling Nico is in the minority though, which is a good thing 
 as she doesn't have the instant appeal and wit that George does, although it is nice to advance 
 the storyline elsewhere and mix things up. The puzzles in the game mainly consist of using an item 
 on something, although there is one section where you have to navigate your way out of a forest, 
 and the frustrating, tedious final game puzzle which sees you rotating dials to reveal a secret 
 door.
  
  The burning question, then, is if the game is better than the first? Simply put, no. Although there 
 is still an amazing plot, deep and interesting characters with superb voice actors to boot and 
 beautiful art, the length of the game and one or two puzzles bring it down. However, despite some 
 negativity, Broken Sword II: The Smoking Mirror is another brilliant adventure game and one that, 
 fan of the series or not, everyone should check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki_rj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Broken Sword: The Smoking Mirror isn't one of those games that will blow your mind away. It won't 
 lead you from plot twist to plot twist, In fact, few are the differences from its predecessor 'Broken 
 Sword: Shadow of the Templars' aka 'Circle of Blood'. But where in other games this would be a 
 problem, in 'The Smoking Mirror' it provides a most welcome solution.
  
  George Stobbart, our highly charismatic Gabriel Knight look-a-like character returns to his supernatural 
 world of adventures, and where at the first game his adventures led him into an ancient Templar 
 mistery, now he must face an all powerful foe, an Ancient Mayan god and its followers, moving from 
 beautifully crafted Paris to beautifully crafted London, to dozens of hand drawn scenarios until 
 his final showdown in a Central American Pyramid. Overall, the graphics are a lot smoother and 
 fit nicely to the tale (from bland rainy London to colorful Quaramonte) .
  
  Nico is back and although her playing time has been drastically reduced, her intelligence is still 
 a nice counterpart to George's 'witty creativity'. All characters are well thought of, and brilliantly 
 acted. The BGM and environmental sounds are also worthy of praise, as they help immerse the player 
 deeply into the story.
  
  The gameplay is what some may call it uncreative, but I choose to call it 'old-school'. Hey, it's 
 point and click. It has worked for adventure games for fifteen years. Why change?
  
  It won't win dozens of awards, it's far from a landmark in the history of adventure games, but 
 it has one remarkable feature that makes it stand above the large majority: It stays in your memory. 
 I don't know how long ago I played it, but the story is still deep within my mind.
  
  It is clearly a game made by adventure fans, to adventure fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havoksteve82
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Thats right this game will be in many games players collections. Its predecessor, Broken Sword 
 the Shadow of the Templars was the first point-and-click adventure game i ever played and it drew 
 me into a world of wonderment, humor and Cartoon like graphics. A fantastic and Original story 
 involved me like an interactive cartoon it was great.
  
  The sequel is no different, sure in todays world of Halo 3 and God Of War and other such tasty 
 delights its certainly not going to win any awards for the best graphics but there is a Story and 
 an adventure that many of todays games just lack. 
  
  The games basic premise is a simple puzzle adventure. To get to the next scene you have to guide 
 your character George Stobbart (or in some cases Nico) to success by chatting to Random people 
 such as kebab sellers or priests for snippets of information and items that will help you complete 
 a puzzle in one of your previous destinations, which in turn will give you another item to proceed 
 further in the game. There is no fast flowing action scenes but there is plenty of puzzles that 
 could tax the average mans brain. Many modern games players are used to walking around levels with 
 a shotgun but in this game be prepared to be armed with Dog Biscuits, clown noses, bars of soap 
 and in some cases items that are simply too large for George's pockets but somehow fit in there 
 all the same??? ahhh the wonders of the gaming world. 
  
  So for some of you this might sound dull and boring but its fun the humor is witty and clean. The 
 Voice acting is good and the characters are lovable and unforgettable and the story is still great 
 today. 
  
  I picked this game up from my local games store a few years back for a mere 3.50 so to my American 
 gaming colleagues i'm sure you can pick it up for about $5 and how many games can bring you Excitement, 
 Entertainment, humor and test your brain for a mere $5. I recommend you go out and buy this game 
 especially if you haven't played it before it will open your eyes to the way games can be without 
 the constant pressing of a fire button.
  
  Long live the Old, Dusty and Smelly games that sit on our shelves! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  There's not too much to say about Quest games, maybe that all of them cointain a unique storyline, 
 which is great. But containing GREAT storylne is MUCH MORE valuable. Not to mention that all backgrounds, 
 maps, events and encounters are perfectly animated and are a lot of fun and tension; music and 
 sfx make them very intriguing and alive. That's why i value this game very much, it's simply stuck 
 in me forever. Isn't it amazing to keep all great and valuable things in your heart forever, and 
 then remember them in a while for a shirt time and feel warm inside? It is really WORTH it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merchitO
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  Gameplay, humour, and graphics, also the puzzles, are very similar to the first game of the series. 
 You still deplore the fact that Nico and Georges seem unable to run and slowly walk from one point 
 to another. Developers should have done a running-when-double-click upgrade for the second part 
 of Stobard's adventures. Anyway, the game is never annoying, with the exception of a laborious 
 labyrinth in the jungle, of which tediousness the gamer should have been spared.
  Graphics and animation are very well done. You will like the character's personalities, their relationships. 
 Also the dialogues are very pleasant and smart. The story itself was less compelling than the story 
 in Circle of Blood, due to a lesser accent put on suspense and mystery.
  Technically, it has nothing more than the first game of the series. So if you should play only 
 one of them, you would better chose Circle of Blood. But if you really enjoyed the first and want 
 more of the same thing, you will not be disappointed with The Smoking Mirror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil-Z
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 3, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  I guess I'm just a great fan of these types of games, but 7.9 is way too low. The only problems 
 that I could find was that, unlike the first one, sometimes it's godamn hard to actually find where 
 you go! Like finding a crack in a cupboard for a credit card, but the crack only can be clicked 
 on in a very very specific place! Also it's way too short, which is a problem. But the dialogue 
 is genius and I would play it again for that.
  
  Best parts: Dialogue, George Stobbart, Titipocco
  Worst parts: Too short, Nico Collard (boring!) , 
 Karzac (great character, but hateful) , No clues sometimes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarekdahab
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  To me , the old Broken Sword versions are merely fantastic, not like the new crappy ones !... they 
 are just not worth buying, one thing i would like to know, where the heck can i buy these old ones 
 of the Broken Sword series ?!!
  Great story line, amazing graphics, you just can't go wrong with these ones.
  Can't wait to put 
 my hands on one of these again.
  Even though, i was never able to finish it when i was playing it, either it was so hard, or i'm 
 just not smart as i'd have thought i'm , probably its that reason!
  Note to virgin company: PLEASE stop making new Broken Sword series, coz you just make yourselves 
 look bad, coz simply .... the new ones .. -excuse my french - suck ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geodisicdome
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 4, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  i cant say enough good things about this game. though not as good as the first one, it still manages 
 to get into my top 10 games EVER.
  
  here's why.....
  
  the characters are funny and well made. they seem like real people... in cartoon form.
  the locations 
 are good, not much to say here... but good.
  the story isnt as good as the first, but still pretty fantastic. mainly because of George (the 
 main character) , he makes me want to be a blond american.
  
  there are some other characters, but they aren't as good as him. he literally is THE SEX. much 
 like james bond, he can do anything.
  
  buy this game right now, before i think of more reasons why it rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartman55
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  First off, lets get one thing straight: this games predecessor is one of the greatest adventure 
 games of all time. It had great graphics, simple puzzles, and an exciting, intriguing story that 
 combined historical fact, mythology, and fiction. In 1997, the sequel, Broken Sword II: The Smoking 
 Mirror, was released. Although it is a great game, it is not as good as its predecessor.
  
  First off, the graphics. Once again, they look amazing. Actually, they are better than they were 
 in Shadow of the Templars. As before, they are all hand drawn and look like an animated film. As 
 before, the graphics don't really fit the seriousness of the plot, but after thirty minutes or 
 so you will get used to this.
  
  The sound, as in the last game, is great. The music is really good and fits the situation (most 
 of the time) , and each character is voice-acted very well.
  
  The gameplay, as before, consists of puzzles. You basically play the game and solve puzzles. They 
 are mostly simple and easy to figure out with a bit of brainpower, but a few are pretty tough. 
 There is no "combat", but there is some violence. However, while in the last game you could travel 
 to any of the locations in Paris available at your leisure, this game will have you finish an area 
 and never return. There is one place in the entire game where you get to choose where to go next. 
 Also, dialogue is more linear as well.
  
  Now, the story. The story is, as before, a combination of historical fact, mythology, and fiction. 
 This time, you are stopping a mad drug lord from bringing back an evil mayan god. Although it is 
 exciting and intriguing, the plot feels a bit sloppy at times and there is very little information 
 on the mayans. Also, it is way too short. I finished the game in about 6-7 hours. It took me two 
 days to complete. If you found the first one too short, you will be sorely dissapointed by this 
 game's length.
  
  Overall, The Smoking Mirror is a great adventure game and a worthy sequel to a great game. Although 
 it is not as good as its predecessor and some things have changed for the worse, the game is still 
 worth it for anybody even mildly interested in adventure games or a good story. It's just way too 
 short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayjoh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  Man, I miss these kinds of games. They were graphically simple, compared to todays standards, but 
 what they lacked in graphical sophistication, they made up for in sheer charm and great gameplay. 
 Although, to be fair, the game is only shabby looking by todays standards. Back in '97 they were 
 quite good looking.
  
  Broken Sword: The Smoking Mirror is the sequel to Broken Sword: Shadow of the Templars. The first 
 game was amazing, in fact it was so amazing that I still think about it from time to time and quote 
 it on given occasions. 
  Smoking Mirror plays exactly the same as "Templars" did, with a slight graphical update (very slight!!!) 
 and a new story. Again we follow George Stobbart in an adventure to stop a druglord from awakening 
 an ancient evil, with potential to destroy mankind. 
  The story is not quite as engaging as "Templars" was, but it certainly gets the job done, featuring 
 a host of characters we met in Georges first adventure. But the story wasn't even what captivated 
 me the most in the first game, even though is was great. That honour goes to Mr. Stobbart, who 
 through his extremely dry humour and sarcasm makes every moment memorable. The same goes for Smoking 
 Mirror, George Stobbart is probably one of the wittiest, most memorable characters in videogame 
 history. There is nothing like George commenting on various things he finds or sees. George being 
 so memorable, must be credited to the writers and Rolf Saxon (who does Georges' voice in the games) .
 
  
  To wrap up: The game is great, not quite as amazing as the first one, but great nevertheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: granposho
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 20, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  Man, I just can't say how many times I've played this game, it's just great, you know? I've never 
 been a adventure game player, not until I played a demo of the first game in this series. 
  First things first, the characters, they are all well taken care of, with a very nice depth of 
 personality, with really great dialogs. It is also quite lengthy, or at least, longer that quite 
 a large amount of games of this genre. 
  The story, as I said in the title, it's quite engaging, it has a very charming way to hook you 
 either with the story and with the main characters, specially if you've played the rest of this 
 series.
  It's puzzles are also great, but what it's even greater is it's music, really great quality music.
 
  So, in conclusion, it's an all time must have, to be honest, I bought this game in 97, and since 
 my disc got damaged, I bought it back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monsierfreak
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 4:03 am PT
Review:  BS: SM is a great game for many reasons, first of all, every character in the game has been given 
 great lines and that is 1/4 of the fun of the game. The Cartoon-ish style of the graphics helps 
 to set the game in a way that you think that everything is possible (and believe, you'll need to 
 believe) . The story has its ups and downs, but the things you have to overcome in the plot surely 
 pay (both funny and inspired) . Unfortunately the game isn't that difficult and if you have played 
 some adventures you'll usually get the answer before you should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1carus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  Broken Sword: The Smoking Mirror is the sequel to my favourite adventure game, one of the most 
 outstanding pieces of gaming ever. Luckily for Broken Sword fans, this game has everything the 
 original packed in, this time with a gripping new story, the same witty dialogue, and some amazing 
 graphics to avert you from your quest to save the world.
  
  You are thrown into control of one of the most likeable characters seen in a game, George Stobbart, 
 a common hero who is about to save the world for the second time in his eventful life. The story 
 opens when George and his lovely French girlfriend, Nico, are brought to an archaeologist's mansion 
 for an interview. The simple job turns haywire, and instead of meeting with the archaeologist, 
 the two characters are attacked by a tough, Native american man. George is knocked out, tied to 
 a chair, and left to a burning house. Nico is captured by the man, and you - George, are tasked 
 to rescue your captive girlfriend.
  
  Of course, the story isn't just to rescue the girl, but to uncover a mystery involving a drug ring, 
 an ancient god, and a sinister plot of backstabbing, cunning, and of course, taking over the world. 
 The story truly takes turns at every corner.
  
  Unfortunately, this game is quite unknown to the gaming population, along with the small percentage 
 of adventure games these days. But for the small percentage who do know of it, love it, and have 
 enjoyed it. And for good reason. This game captivates the player like no other game.
  
  Although the game is relatively short, and has a quite linear story line, while it lasts, the game 
 is so fun, you won't want to quit, at all. With an adventure game like this, it chooses quality 
 over quantity. Each environment is completely unique, and your jobs will differ everytime you reach 
 a new goal. Whether it's sneaking onto a boat to steal an ancient stone, or co-directing a B-Grade, 
 remake of a movie, or breaking someone out of a prison, each new task is a refreshing challenge, 
 that the developers, Revolution, truly make use of everything in the environment.
  
  In terms of gameplay, The Smoking Mirror doesn't have too many enhancements over the original Broken 
 Sword, but has a number of small tweaks. This is because, with a game with such a simple interface 
 such as the Broken Sword games, the gameplay doesn't need to be improved in many ways at all. One 
 of the biggest improvements is the addition of playing as our favourite female hero, Nico. Although 
 George still stands as the main character, Nico still has some fun little gameplay, and some interesting 
 inventory items.
  
  The music in The Smoking Mirror is the heart of the game. Seeing the graphics alone do not give 
 you the final eery feel of this game in any way. Not until you've heard the mysterious soundtrack. 
 The music is absolutely beautiful. And although it isn't the epic music of the third Broken Sword 
 game, the music is still quite amazing, and it fits perfectly with the Mayan culture of the game. 
 The small tracks pop in and out at random intervals, and this adds to the immersion. This isn't 
 just for show though, it also helps when your stuck in the game, and begin to become bored, the 
 music track kicks in, and your suddenly not going anywhere. 
  
  The graphics in the game stand out beyond any other game. The beautiful 2d paintings are an amazing 
 sight that will take your breath away. When standing at the top of a cliff, gazing down on the 
 trees below, and the beautiful blue sky is wavering with the sun, you will completely forget about 
 any 3d game that tries to recreate this beauty. You'll travel from grand locations like Paris, 
 London, Central America, and a small Mexican city, and each of these locations look and feel unique 
 in their own right.
  
  The Smoking Mirror takes a turn from the locations of the original Broken Sword game, going for 
 a brighter, more tropical feel to the European style of the The Shadow Of The Templars. This is 
 a welcome addition, and a refreshing change to the darker environments in its predecessor.
  
  This time round Paris has a much smaller part to play than the original Broken Sword. In fact, 
 it's only featured in the small campaign at the start of the game. With this area being so small, 
 the map screen has also been scratched. Although this may make the game locations feel smaller, 
 it also keeps the pacing tightly packed, and it is less confusing to the player.
  
  All in all, I think this game is absolutely brilliant. And although the game may be over sooner 
 than expected, and replaybility is minimal, while it lasts, this game is a thrill ride from start 
 to finish. The story is its main selling point, and choosing whether you like the original more 
 or less than this is simply a taste in your liking of literature. This is simply the peak of adventure 
 gaming, and should appeal to anyone with a sense of patience, and can just sit back and enjoy the 
 ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skizzo2711
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Overview
  
  In Broken Sword II: The Smoking Mirror, George and Nico find themselves once again involved in 
 an evil plot which could destroy the world. Having no other choice, they decide to bring this plot 
 to a halt, in the same manner that were already used to from them: through logical thinking and 
 conversation. No big guns or superpowers, just their wits.
  
  Again, George and Nico will travel to different places over the world to find the true motives 
 of the villains and once again, you will find that talking and thinking youre ways out of situations, 
 can be far more fun than just shooting at everything that moves.
  
  The story begins with the arrival of George and Nico to the mansion of professor Oubier: an authority 
 on Mayan history and culture. They are following a lead Nico has got for an article shes writing. 
 When they arrive, they are greeted by a man who claims to be the servant of Oubier. As soon as 
 George and Nico enter the house, they are attacked: Nico is shot down with a paralyzing dart, while 
 George is knocked unconscious.
  When George awakens, he finds himself tied onto a chair, with a poisonous spider approaching him, 
 in a burning room. How will he get out of this and what the hell is going on?! Thats what you 
 have to find out as you once again take on the role of the American patent lawyer George Stobbart
 
  
  The game
  
  Clearly created because of the apparent success of Broken Sword I, Broken Sword II is in fact more 
 of the same. The engine is the same, albeit made somewhat prettier, but you wont find any major 
 changes. The graphics look a bit nicer, but thats about it. The gameplay is exactly the same too: 
 the major part of the game consists of dialogue, followed by collecting, combining and using objects. 
 The only difference is the story and the fact that you also take on the role of Nicole Collard 
 (Nico for friends) , the French reporter with whom George got involved with at the end of Broken 
 Sword I.
  
  Does that mean that Broken Sword II is a bad adventure game? Does that mean that Broken Sword II 
 isnt worthwhile? Most certainly not! The game has everything to offer that its predecessor had, 
 albeit in smaller amounts, meaning that the game is shorter than the first part (Id say about 
 one half to two third as long as part one) , which is understandable, considering that Revolution 
 Software had to make part two with a smaller budget than part one.
  
  There are a few very small changes made to the game. For the first time we will see George and 
 Nico in more than one outfit! A small thing that bothered me a very tiny bit, was the fact that 
 in part one when George went to Syria, he didnt need to change his clothes; apparently his long 
 pants and his blue jacket were just fine. This time however, George and Nico adapt their clothing 
 to the climate. As I said: a small change, but one in the good direction in my opinion. Another 
 small change worth mentioning is the very small change in inventory management. Your inventory 
 no longer appears at the top of your screen (this space is now reserved for the game options) , 
 but at the bottom. Like I said, only small changes. Anybody whos played Broken Sword I will not 
 need to go over the controls of Broken Sword II to play the game. And because of the easiness of 
 the controls, neither do people who havent played Broken Sword I. So, whats stopping you?
  
  The controls 
  
  The controls are the same as in part one. The game is completely played 
 by mouse (except for naming your savegames of course) . A right click will let George/Nico give 
 a description of the object/person, while a left click will let George/Nico interact with the object, 
 or talk to the person.
  A small change compared to part one is the look of the cursor. In part one, the cursor changed 
 into different icons while pointing an object/person as to give you a hint of the interaction possible 
 with the object/person. Now, you just get a cross.
  When you have the option to leave the screen, the cursor will still change into a pointing hand, 
 just as in part one.
  
  The graphics
  
  The graphics are also the same as part one (which means 2D) , although the characters look a bit 
 better than the characters in its predecessors. This is because they are a bit more blurry. 
 This helps to make the characters less sharp-edged. The backgrounds are still static and hand 
 drawn, for lack of a better word.
  
  The sound
  
  Again, the music of the game is beautiful, although I have to admit that I liked the music of part 
 one far more. I cannot exactly explain why I liked the music of part one better, but the most important 
 factor probably is that it somehow played a larger and more important role in part one. It looks 
 like the music has faded to the background more in part two, which is a shame in my opinion, because 
 the music is certainly a huge factor which made part one so great. But still, the music is beautiful 
 and it certainly fits nicely to the game. I just have the feeling that it could have been more.
 
  
  The voice acting is very, very good. Hiring Rolf Saxon to do the voice of George was just the perfect 
 move. I cannot imagine anybody else doing it better. Especially the sarcastic remarks made by George 
 are absolutely superb! As for the voice of Nicole Collard (done by Flaminia Cinque, according to 
 imdb) , I really did not like it. The French accent sounds like an English person trying to fake 
 a French accent and believe me, its not convincing. The voice isnt so bad that you want to stop 
 playing the game, but they could have done better in my opinion.
  
  The voices of the characters in general are very good. Some of them are very stereotype, but that 
 just adds to the fun. Ive played many games in which the voices were worse than in this game and 
 I havent played that many games in which the voices were better than in this game; just a few.
 
  
  Overall
  
  The game is a continuation of the first part (Broken Sword: The Shadow of the Templars/Circle of 
 Blood) , gameplay wise. The story however is totally different and the title Broken Sword doesnt 
 make any sense: its just been used so that people would recognize the game being another adventure 
 in which George Stobbart is the main character. Yes, it does play after Broken Sword I and yes, 
 many of the characters and one of the locations is the same, but that is where the similarities 
 end. Story wise that is. There are no broken swords in this one. Or Templars for that matter.
 
  
  The game is much shorter than its predecessor. A real shame, because usually sequels tend to be 
 larger. But as Ive explained already: Revolution Software had to make this game with less money 
 than part one (as I understand it, these games take a lot of sketch artists to draw all the scenery 
 and characters and less money means a smaller work crew) .
  The storys good, although I liked the story of part one better. But that is just a matter of opinion. 
 There are many people who would disagree with me on this one, so youll have to find that one out 
 for yourself.
  But if you really liked the first one, youll definitely like this one too and Id recommend you 
 to play it. This is, just like part one, a classic and in my opinion a must have for every true 
 adventure gamer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uk132002
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  Really good game which follows from the 1st nicely in quality. the game still has its great puzzles 
 and comic references which are a great asset. furtherly, the sound is great with the graphical 
 environments which you explore. a very atmospheric feel is achieved with this game which sucks 
 the player into the plot and makes the player want to go further in the game and solve the plot. 
 i never completed this game as mine had some sorta error with clusters are something, shame though. 
 i might buy it again and complete it (only 5 now for PC) . all in all, i recommend this game for 
 a more mental challenge which can really make you think and suck you into the plot. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
