-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Broken Sword: The Sleeping Dragon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/brokenswordthesd/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 25, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.3, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,020 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Revolution Soft.
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Nov 17, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Developer Revolution Software really understands the adventure genre and capitalizes on its strengths 
 in Broken Sword: The Sleeping Dragon. 

  Adventure games are one of the oldest PC game genres and also one of the most conservative. When 
 the genre evolves, it's usually at a glacial pace. That's why it's really refreshing to play a 
 game like Broken Sword: The Sleeping Dragon. It's not hugely innovative, and it has its share of 
 faults, but its particular blend of features nevertheless gives it a fresh, fun feel. Just as importantly, 
 developer Revolution Software really understands the adventure genre and capitalizes on its strengths. 
 You'll unravel a colorful, witty yarn filled with lovable characters, dramatic encounters, sharp 
 dialogue, and exotic locales.  

          Intrepid heroes George and Nico are in trouble again.     

  Broken Sword: The Sleeping 
 Dragon is a loose sequel. The first game in the series, called Circle of Blood in the US and Broken 
 Sword: Shadow of the Templars in Europe, came out on the PC back in 1996. The second game, Broken 
 Sword: The Smoking Mirror, arrived in 1997. The six-year wait for the latest game, which marks 
 the series' transition from 2D to 3D, sure paid off. If nothing else, Broken Sword: The Sleeping 
 Dragon wins high points for style, often looking like a slickly directed animated film. Vibrant 
 colors, expressive lead characters, and detailed settings all draw you into the game.  

  In fact, the parallels to an animated film show up right from the start of the game. After a dark 
 and mysterious prologue, you see series hero George Stobbart soaring in a plane over the lush jungles 
 of the Congo. With a heroic orchestral theme building excitement and well-chosen camera angles 
 adding visual drama, it almost feels like you're sitting in a theater watching the beginning of 
 a film. This Indiana Jones-style scene hits all the right buttons; everything about the game says 
 "high adventure" right from the start.  

  Many adventure games don't make you feel too adventurous, and most adventure games tend not to 
 be adventurous from a design standpoint. Those facts weren't lost on Revolution when designing 
 this latest Broken Sword installment. In addition to boasting a winning style, the game merges 
 a bit of console-like, third-person action gaming with the traditions of PC point-and-click adventures. 
 This creates a more action-packed feel and helps immerse you better than simply moving a character 
 around in front of discrete, static backdrops.  

  You maneuver George, and later his fellow adventurer, Nico Collard, using directional buttons on 
 the keyboard or a gamepad. You can also make the hero run or creep along stealthily. Whenever you 
 near a hotspot that you can examine or an area that you can climb, jump across, or shimmy along, 
 little icons light up to show your available options. You then just press the appropriate key to 
 select your option. When standing near a telephone, for example, you can examine it, listen to 
 any messages on the answering machine, or make a call. When standing near a crate, you can push 
 or pull it and climb up or down from it, all using this simple icon system. The system means that 
 the game's climbing and jumping puzzles are much less stressful than in a true third-person action 
 adventure game since here you don't need to employ lightning reflexes to avoid a fall. You merely 
 press a jump button at a valid location and let the game handle the rest.  

  In theory -- and often in practice -- this is an elegant interface. It's not without faults, though. 
 For one thing, you have no control over the camera. Instead, it shifts to preset locations as you 
 move. This can create some nice cinematic moments, with overhead tracking shots or angles that 
 dramatically capture the play of light and shadow. Unfortunately, the camera can be a big pain 
 since you have little control over what you see without actually moving your character around a 
 lot. This can make climbing puzzles or stealth sequences overly difficult since you can't always 
 effectively see where you are or where you're going.  

          Colorful locales, like this Parisian park, make exploration fun.     

  The preset camera 
 angles also mean that the direction keys essentially switch when you move to a new area: One second, 
 the left key is moving you left, but when the camera whips around, the left key is suddenly moving 
 you right. You can get used to this pretty quickly, but it always remains a bit awkward or even 
 disorienting. The game might have worked better and felt even more immersive if it had offered 
 a shooter-style WASD/mouselook system that let you directly control what you see.  

  Interface problems don't end there. You sometimes have to align yourself too precisely with a hotspot 
 for the game to make you aware of it via a little star icon. It's even worse when you have to perfectly 
 align yourself with a narrow object for climbing. This oversensitivity makes it too easy to overlook 
 things or waste time micromanaging your character's movements. Making characters run creates more 
 annoyances: Whenever they brush against an object, they slow to a crawl, requiring you to back 
 away and start running again.     

  To heighten the action, Broken Sword includes occasional "action events," but these are an example 
 of good intentions gone awry. These events call to mind games like Dragon's Lair or Shenmue. Every 
 once in a while, you'll need to make a split-second button press to hop off a crumbling ledge, 
 for example, or dodge a speeding car. The first time each of these events occurs, you rarely have 
 enough time to react since hitting the button often doesn't seem to register for some reason. Your 
 character then dies, and you get to try the sequence over again until you get it right. This repetition 
 sucks a lot of the fun out of the game since you have to sit through the same dialogue or cutscene 
 material again before the action event starts. It's frustrating that you can't skip scenes or dialogue 
 you've already seen and heard.  

          Summaries of the first two games bring you up to speed.     

  None of these problems 
 are game-killers, but they do detract from all the things Broken Sword does so well. You get to 
 solve an interesting conspiracy and murder mystery that takes you from the Congo to Paris, Prague, 
 and other exciting locales. A mysterious villain named Susarro is trying to tap into geomantic 
 energy, powerful currents that run through the earth. It seems like he's really onto something 
 because the earth's weather patterns have been going haywire. George, a patent lawyer from Idaho, 
 stumbles onto this plot while trying to meet an inventor in the Congo. Meanwhile, a Parisian hacker 
 has managed to decrypt a mystic manuscript with clues to the energy, but he gets murdered just 
 as the game's other hero, French journalist Nico Collard, is about to meet him for an interview. 
 Suddenly, she finds herself framed for the murder. With a great sense of pacing, the game smoothly 
 switches back and forth between the George and Nico episodes, and eventually the two old adventuring 
 buddies are reunited to fight the evil that threatens the world.  

  As you travel the globe and uncover the plot, you'll enjoy two of Broken Sword's biggest strengths: 
 sharp writing and a cast of memorable characters. The story is filled with funny, dramatic, and 
 even touching moments, not to mention a rogues' gallery of colorful people. In Glastonbury, England, 
 for example, George lands in the middle of a hilarious imbroglio involving a retired British Army 
 colonel with a bad temper and a shotgun, his randy daughter who's run away from home to assert 
 her womanhood, a monumentally pompous hippie who runs a New Age shop, and an Irish BBC TV host 
 with an almost violent passion for poetry.  

  When you're not talking with these eccentric characters, you'll be solving puzzles. A few puzzles 
 are really tough, but most of them are interesting and reasonably easy, too, making the game pretty 
 newbie-friendly. Whether you're a first-timer or an adventure veteran, you'll likely tire of the 
 omnipresent block puzzles, though, where you have to align crates or hunks of stone to create platforms 
 for climbing. It's annoying, too, that you run across innumerable locked doors while searching 
 for items. It wastes your time as you futilely try them all and also reduces the immersion by reminding 
 you how linear the game really is as you're shunted down preset paths. Since the story and characters 
 and locales are so much fun, though, it's hard to complain too loudly about these weaknesses.  
 

          The game's strange humor: One of your clues is a dirty pair of boxer shorts.     

  
 Even if Broken Sword can at times be frustrating to play, it's a joy to behold. The graphics sure 
 aren't cutting edge, but the attention to detail, vibrant colors, and smooth animations give the 
 game its own attractive style. (The "idle" animations of Nico repeatedly brushing her shoulder 
 or stretching are odd and distracting, though.) The wonderfully elegant and evocative soundtrack 
 varies from bold fanfares to jaunty comic bits to pensive piano interludes to suit the locales 
 and situations. The voice-overs really bring the game to life, too. By and large, the actors are 
 really acting here instead of just lazily reading their lines like you find in so many games. Unfortunately, 
 the voice-overs highlight the game's biggest flaw, a major sound bug. Occasionally, dialogue can 
 cut out, a character will make two statements at the same time, or two characters will speak over 
 each other entirely. This bug can ruin the mood or make it hard to know what on earth is going 
 on when you miss vital dialogue.  

  It's a shame problems like that mar Broken Sword: The Sleeping Dragon. With its blend of cinematic 
 style, 3D immersion, sharp writing, and likable characters, this is otherwise an adventure game 
 that does the genre proud.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (29 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  The Sleeping Dragon is the third installment in the Broken Sword series, which is probably well 
 known to fans of adventure games by now. The games follow the adventures of George Stobbart, a 
 patent lawyer who has a talent for getting himself into trouble. This usually involves centuries-old 
 organizations bent on taking over the world and Broken Sword 3 is no different. A tale of murder, 
 mystery and a touch of history await you. Let's take a closer look!
  
  The game begins with a short movie that mentions something about some sort of power that is building 
 to a peak. After that we are introduced to George, who is flying to Congo to see someone about 
 a patent but trouble strikes again (under the form of lightning) and the plane crashes. And our 
 last stop is Paris where we witness the murder of a computer hacker, who apparently knew too much 
 about the afore mentioned power and had to be eliminated. But by whom? After the intro we are ready 
 to jump right into the action. It's worth noting that for the most part you will play as George, 
 but once in a while you'll get to play as a french journalist by the name of Nico Collard, an older 
 friend of George's.
  
  So you start off as George and your first objective is to get out of the plane wreckage, but it's 
 not that easy as the plane is balanced on the edge of a cliff. The first thing you'll notice are 
 the game's mechanics. Broken Sword 3 doesn't use the usual point-and-click interface that most 
 adventure games use, instead you use the arrow keys to control movement and the "W-A-S-D" keys 
 to perform actions. For example, when you stand next to an object you will get a few options: examine 
 it by using the "D" key or pick it up by using the "S" key. You can then access it via your inventory 
 (default is "I" key) . Also, your HUD will tell you exactly what kind of action you can perform 
 on an object (or person) . That's all, simple isn't it? But how does it feel? Pretty good would 
 be the answer. It's intuitive and although the directions feel a bit funky at times, the system 
 works great.
  
  Of course, the whole game revolves around puzzle-solving and the puzzles are pretty common sense. 
 I encountered few difficulties along the way, you just need to search every square inch of the 
 level for clues and such. Also, the story and characters are an integral part of the game experience 
 and in this regard Broken Sword 3 is a big success. Although the plot revolves around a sinister 
 plan to destroy the world, the vibe of the game is pretty positive, thanks to George and Nico and 
 their positive personalities. Also, some of their lines are really great (and funny too) , actually, 
 dialogs in general are good examples of great writing. It's definitely the aspect I enjoyed the 
 most.
  
  The game excels in terms of graphics and sound too. Its vividly colored graphics add more color 
 to the already "colored" atmosphere; it's a colored game, what can I say... The sound also gets 
 a thumbs-up for the excellent voice-acting, the good ambient sounds and the great music. The game 
 runs perfectly stable, I haven't encountered any bugs or issues and on top of that, it's not demanding 
 on the hardware.
  
  So overall, Broken Sword 3: The Sleeping Dragon is an excellent game that is also something many 
 modern games forget to be: FUN!!! Yes, it's fun! It has excellent writing, good puzzles, intuitive 
 controls and two amazing protagonists. A well deserved 8.5 is in order... and a warm recommendation 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravage19
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  Very good game. One of the best adventure games but very easy to play...
  This game have very good sound and graphics. The scenario is very good to and this makes you to 
 play it antil you finish it. Catacters are good and they have humor. The bad thing is the difficulty, 
 the game is very easy cos you can finish it just with pressing one button antil you take something 
 and use it. The game is very good and if you are not an adventure game fun you can start from this 
 one, but if you are you have to try something more difficult... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brycechua8
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  BS3 attempts to 'create' a sequel to the Templars, which falls short somehow. Storyline is rather 
 linear, and moves in a rather predictable direction. The main gripe is gameplay, directional controls 
 are irritating when the camera angles change, leaving you running in different directions than 
 intended. Another problem is the dialogue part, you can't skip useless dialogue and have to hear 
 it through. Most of the dialogue between George and Nico are amusing, especially the ones regarding 
 Petra the Blonde.
  
  And for example a door gives you three options, to observe or open, which mostly are lock, and 
 lastly to listen through it. The third is absolutely obsolete while opening it mostly gives you 
 a one sentence line indicating that it is locked. Gets on your nerves after many of such encounters 
 really. Puzzles are mostly the normal push crate type, which drags down innovation, the one in 
 Egypt with Horus, seems to be a rip off from readers digest, save for the room in which you have 
 to reflect lasers off the mirrors, that one was rather good.
  
  However the game does have good points too, like when you have to scale walls and push crates/blocks, 
 the flexibility of choosing how you want to do it is good.
  
  But seriously, I've played Broken Sword 1 &amp; 2 which had less than amazing graphics, but I feel 
 that the storyline for both outshine BS3. If BS3 didn't attempt to expand on the Templar arc but 
 created a new storyline, it would have been better.
  
  Overall this game is worth a play, but only once IMHO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djane25
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:57 am PT
Review:  I have found this game through this site itself... I read some of the reviews and became interested. 
 I tried to purchase it, wheeee!, very hard to find. I played it and though the mouse is not in 
 use, you'll enjoy this! It has lot of puzzles, struggles, action and satisfying ending. It was 
 very challenging, a game for those who wanted to use their mind, interesting isn't it?...
  The graphics are of good quality, and the sound is intense. But sometimes, there were glitches 
 in sound, being delayed during the action, but it doesn't bother to the flow of the game. Just 
 try to make several saves rather than overwriting the saves.
  Well, one thing that I didn't like is the conversation requirement. What I mean is that you need 
 a walk through or guide to be able to acquire the information that is needed to complete the game. 
 The game is full of strategy. Sometimes you have to examine your items, you have to asked the characters 
 several times, you have to go back to different location. If not, you'll miss something and would 
 stock in the game. But this is not it's downfall, it's the challenge... So for me, this is a very 
 good game!... Great game THQ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SultanBadza
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  Well, I finished this game in 12 hours of playing. It isn't so hard, but also it isn't so easy. 
 I found some cool, but famous and very known puzzles, like that one when you come to Egypt, and 
 have to pass an exam and you have to play with Horace. I like this game because you have two characters 
 to play, and they are independent, for some time, and then they meet each other in one bad opportunity.
 
  Graphic is good, for that time when game was made. Well, I had to waste 15-30 minutes to learn 
 how to play this game.
  I like game's environment. It's quite good. There are many good places, and they all are in different 
 parts of world, and that's good thing. There are some places you had in previous versions.
  Characters are good-looking. Well, they are better from previous versions, but that's because this 
 is 3D version of the game.
  Well, good thing, too, that, you can find some characters from previous versions of this game. 
 I like this game, and I hope you all liked it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 5, 2006 3:23 am PT
Review:  Cheers for Broken Sword series
  
  This is one of the most great adventure games. it's ironic, funny and fun to play.
  It's new 
 3d adaption gives him some extra points, the graphics are great but it could been much better. 
 The sounds, the dialogs are also great, solid and well acted.
  
  The story, like all Broken sword previous releases ,is exceptional. The way it links with the other 
 ones... is brilliant. Too bad they blow it at the end (typical for Broken Sword) , i do not know 
 why they keep doing that? The game beautifully evolves close to the end and then collapses with 
 the ending. The characters are well done and so the expressions on their faces, good alternative 
 acting and good puzzles.
  
  For an adventure fan this game is one of the representatives of it's kind.
  
  So if you haven't 
 yet played this masterpiece then go ahead, you'll love it.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 16, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  Broken Sword: The Sleeping Dragon is the latest adventure in the Broken Sword series. It continues 
 the tradition of take historical events and weaving them into a story of intrigue and mystery. 
 You never feel lost while playing and you are captivated with the events that unfold during game 
 play.
  
  Your adventure starts with you a watching a prologue to the story. A strange man is hovering over 
 a computer typing frantically, mumbling about how he has figured it out and that we are all in 
 danger. We never really find out what he is going on about, because he is killed by a strange woman 
 with black hair and a French accent. From here, we join the first of our two main protagonists 
 in the story, George Stobbart. George has hired a pilot to fly him to a remote part of the Congo 
 to interview an eccentric scientist. The scientist has uncovered a strange power that could destroy 
 the world if it fell into the wrong hands. Said scientist ends up dead and George decides that 
 he needs to find out why this man was killed and what the great power was that he had discovered. 
 At this point, we join our second protagonist, Nico Collard, that looks awfully familiar to the 
 young lady we saw in the prologue. She is here to interview the young man that was killed in the 
 beginning. After finding the man dead, she has to find out who is framing her and why, all the 
 while trying to avoid the police. The two stories constantly intertwine and you will play through 
 the story as both characters on a rollercoaster of a ride to the finish.
  
  The story is helped along by some stylish and cinematic graphics. There is a lot of spit and polish 
 with this game in the visual department. The characters are full of life and give you the emotional 
 feedback through gestures and facial animations. Character animations in general help with selling 
 the game. Nico and George look like real people. George is aloof at best and Nico doesnt have 
 to worry about an extra large bosom flying out at a moments notice. It is subtle, but a nice change 
 that more games should look at adopting. The whole look of the game has the feel of a seat of the 
 pants action-adventure movie. As the camera pans around based on your location, you never get lost 
 and you are never hindered with a bad view. The surrounding areas are full of detail and are splashed 
 with lots of color. The color actually helps with bringing the sparsely populate world to life. 
 Scenery is never dull or repetitive and will never get old on the eyes.
  
  While the game plays out as an adventure game, it does have some action elements in it. The action 
 sequences are rather simple and never really take you out of the games. Normally they are as simple 
 as sneaking though a sequence of buildings without being witnessed by anyone or dodging bullet 
 fire from an enemy. None will really hold an action challenged gamer behind and if you die, you 
 get sent back to the beginning of the challenge instead of your last save.
  
  The game was designed with a console player in mind, but the controls adapt nicely on the PC with 
 all the controls being mapped nicely onto the keyboard in a logical format. Most ports tend to 
 have hashed out control schemes or they are not even fully mapped out to the computer. The game 
 takes everything from saving and loading to selecting your inventory and makes it very accessible. 
 As a matter of fact, you will probably never use your mouse as the game is so keyboard driven.
 
  
  The voice work in the game is nothing short of fantastic. George and Nico have voice work that 
 is polished and full of emotion. You never get the sense that they are doing it just for the paycheck. 
 Their heart and soul breathe life into the main characters and allow us, the players, to attach 
 with their character. The rest of the cast is sharp and fills out the story quite nicely. Ambient 
 sounds are good, but you never really notice them to make a difference in your gaming experience. 
 Music is dramatic and delivers the goods during serious moments, but outside these scenes, it is 
 almost non-existent. It may have been there, but it is not noticeable to make a lengthy column 
 about. Even though this is the third installment in the Broken Sword series, new players will not 
 be left out in the cold. The game has a recap feature on the menu that allows players to catch 
 up on the last two installments. Also, the designers have always stated that the reason they do 
 not designate a number to any of the Broken Sword games is so new players never feel obligated 
 to play the previous games. They use the same characters, but the stories are independent from 
 one another for the most part.
  
  Broken Sword has packaged a great little adventure game that will keep you in suspense till the 
 very end of the game. It ties together sharp graphics, great voice work and a tightly wound story 
 to give the player an experience they will be happy to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joff5555
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 16, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  well its ture it is a lot better than one and two its longer than one and two and you get to fight 
 a dragon thats the last fight they said this was the final part of the book but it looks like they 
 made the 4th in the mist the pepole who made the games must of thought of makeing the 4th insted 
 of three i only played a bit of the 4th its a bit better than the 3rd this one. anyway the controls 
 on this game are wierd but you will get the hang of it in no time easy storyline to follow and 
 there are also action buttons some of them are cool so if your a broken sword fan but this and 
 add it to your broken sword book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odja
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 1, 2006 1:10 am PT
Review:  When I started playing this, I was instantly transported to the world of George and Nico once again. 
 Every part of the game makes you want to know whats round the next corner, and it is really hard 
 to put down. And apart from a few minor hiccups the game runs great.
  
  The game plays well for the most, when I started the controls did feel a bit stiff, but you quickly 
 realise that your not playing a tomb raider game despite the ledge grabbing and cliff face leaping. 
 The controls are generally fine for this puzzle adventure.
  
  The graphics for their time are outstanding. The cartoonish nature helps you know that you are 
 playing a Broken Sword game, and the programmers have done a good job in transporting it to 3D. 
 Limited graphics options however may mean that if your PC is a little dated you may find it hard 
 to run at a playable speed.
  
  Sound for the most is fine, and music and effects suit the scenes well. However in some movie sequences 
 you do find that some sounds, ie a gun shot, are far too quiet or just simply not there.
  
  The game is definitely worth buying, even if you're not a broken sword fan. A broken sword synopsis 
 of 1 and 2 allow you to get to know the characters and storyline so far. The puzzles make the game 
 challenging at some points, and when you are on a roll its very satisfying. Unfortunately it is 
 all over too quickly in my opinion. The game in total takes about 8 hours, with getting stuck at 
 certain points too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_calzone
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 23, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  Ladies and gentlemen welcome to "Cratesmover 2000"... there will be nothing much more than moving 
 crates, climbing walls, and escaping from death in this game, and this would not be bad if this 
 was not an adventure game...
  
  The person who designed the control system of this game deserves a shot in the head or a fancy 
 gruesome decapitation for preventing him to ruin other games and as a warning for other game developers. 
 You can have 2 kind of reference systems: relative to the scene or relative to the character, ok, 
 choose one, I don't care. But you can't make the scene move or rotate while controlling the character!!! 
 This screws up everything!!! Seriously, the control system, and the interface too, are the worst 
 I've ever seen in any kind of game. Absolute $hit. If you hope you'll get accustomed to it during 
 the game, it won't happen; never. The longevity of this game is granted only by its nasty controls 
 which will turn the easiest movement into a nightmare. Do not expect challenging puzzles. Oh, the 
 scenes in which you can die coupled with that hideous control system are pure idiocy.
  
  Graphics: good but not impressive. Making everything 3D forced to cut down the polygonal density 
 of every model and to use shallow and poorly detailed textures sometimes. The classic 2.5D (3D 
 characters + 2D prerendered scenes) would have been much more better.
  
  The story makes you constantly wonder "Am I missing something?" cause events will proceed leaving 
 gaps in the plot and in continuity. The story itself is not that great too.
  
  The amount of characters you will interact with is fairly ridiculous. And you are hostage of the 
 nasty chattering between characters without any chance to skip that bla-bla-bla which is futile 
 at best.
  
  A real step back from BS1 and BS2 which were quite good instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 16, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Broken Sword games have been in the past very loveable adventure games that take you to different 
 locales around the world in a well scripted, yet somehow humorous, quest to save the world. BSSD 
 is no exception, and the lastest edition offers a great gameplay experience and a new twist on 
 the genre.
  
  ~ Story
  
  The story is pretty standard for a Broken Sword game. You start off investigating some sort of 
 issue, which leads you slowly into a vortex of corrupt minds seeking some sort of ancient powers. 
 The stories of Broken Sword often borrow real life elements, locales, and folklore and combines 
 all of them into one great experience.
  
  This time, without spoilers, the game takes you on a quest to seek some ancient artifact and deciphiring 
 some manuscripts in order to stop a terrible future for mankind. Of course, throughout the story 
 you realize how ridiculous it can get, and this is where the charm comes from. The developers have 
 somehow managed to intertwine many different real life concept that are distant in nature to deliver 
 an entertaining experience. The story has some minor twists, but mostly standard, and from the 
 get-go you pretty much know how the story goes (even from the game's title) but the ride of getting 
 there makes it worthwhile.
  
  ~ Gameplay
  
  What's a game without gameplay? BSSD has the standard adventure type of gameplay - you look around 
 each and every single room for clues, interact with objects, combine items, talk to people and 
 solve mysteries.
  
  Thankfully, these are well executed since all the elements seemlessly integrate and are interesting 
 for the most part. A stretch of puzzle solving is usually followed by a brief action sequence where 
 you have to either move to a particular place before time runs out or press keys to avoid what 
 is known as cheap deaths. Unlike the previous two games, you cannot save during these sequences, 
 and hence eliminates the frustration of a real cheap death when you accidentally save a nanosecond 
 before your demise.
  
  A major depart from previous Broken Sword games is that BSSD is no longer point and click. You 
 move around with the keyboard, and if you come within the vicinity of an object you can interact 
 with a star shines on it, and four possible actions are displayed for you to choose from, selected 
 through the standard WASD keyboard layout. It takes some time getting used to, especially that 
 the camera angles often disorient the keyboard movements, but it makes you feel that you are really 
 controlling the characters than simply ordering them around. I personally prefered the point and 
 click, but being a console gamer I also appreciated the feeling of being in control of the characters.
 
  
  ~ Graphics and Sound
  
  Graphically, the game had its major depart from the cartoon 2D experience to a cartoon 3D experience. 
 How you respond to this transformation depends on how much of a purist you are. Although I loved 
 the 3D environment, and they made sense with the new control scheme, I still prefer the 2D effect 
 of the previous games. Still, the game is visiually impressive. The graphics are sharp and very 
 crips (maybe too crisp) , and the texture quality is excellent (except up close) . The character 
 models are really good but you can see how stiff they are. They animate good but could have used 
 more fluid movements and facial expressions.
  
  Soundwise, the game is excellent. The voice acting is top notch and the dialogues are well scripted, 
 never confusing, and to the point. Of course, inside jokes are aplenty, and you would appreciate 
 the funny conversations that occur even in the most dire situations. Music is pretty much non-existent 
 unless you enter a key area, combine an item or find an important item, door, or puzzle piece. 
 They are well orchestrated however and suit the adventure style you are going through, although 
 a couple of tunes are a little too classical for a given situation.
  
  Overall, BSSD is an excellent adventure game that should not be missed out, especially if you are 
 a fan of previous Broken Sword games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayjoh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 19, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  The long awaited sequel to Broken Sword: The Smoking Mirror came in 2003, to favorable reviews. 
 Revolution had all the odds against them on this one, they changed the graphics to 3D, and they 
 had to try and top what was already some of the greatest adventure games ever. With that in mind, 
 I think Revolution did a brilliant job on BS3. Sure, the cuddly charm of the first two games graphics 
 were gone, so was the point-and-click interface, but Revolution nevertheless managed to pull a 
 rabbit out of their hat, again. 
  
  This time around, the game is played like Grim Fandango (with direct movement control) instead 
 of point-and-click like the previous titles. I must admit, it was a little hard getting used to, 
 but it was never a problem or anything like that. You simple move George (or Nico) to where you 
 want them to go, and if there is anything of interest, they will look at it and a tiny star will 
 appear above that point. Apart from the control being direct, the game is now in full 3D, which 
 allows much more detail to the different locations, albeit, at the cost of losing some of the abovementioned 
 charm, and general view of your sorroundings. Other than that, the game is still a classic adventure 
 game, with more emphasis on thinking your way around, than charching on (although there are a couple 
 of action-like sequences in the game) . 
  The best thing about the new game is not that it is in 3D (there are pros and cons in this department) 
 nor is it the story, although I find it a bit better than the one in Smoking Mirror, being more 
 of a return to the story of the first game. No, the best thing is George Stobbart and the way he 
 interacts with the gameworld and other characters. George Stobbart has, over time, probably become 
 my favorite videogame hero of all time. He is superbly voice-acted by Rolf Saxon, being dry-humoured 
 and very sarcastic. These traits give the game (s) a very distinctive feel and many phrases and 
 outbursts really stick in your mind. This is the most important factor in why these games appeal 
 to me, they have a realistic streak and they keep the extremely high standard throughout the series. 
 
  
  Forget about the discussion about 3D or not, this game is still an adventure game of the old school, 
 the 3D is just another way to present the game, and doesn't affect the core of the game. Thumbs 
 up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DomovoiWasBezet
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 16, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Annoying crate puzzles and a very poor storyline destroy what could've been one of the latest great 
 adventure games. Although George's character is classic as ever (much to the credit of the voice 
 actor) , the game itself just isn't Broken Sword. Where the first two games were realistic with 
 a hint of mysticism in the end, this one is a pompous mess of murderous holograms, dragons, and 
 Jedi-like villains and heroes. Numerous plotholes abound: a villain killed on the train in BS1 
 is revived without explanation, and one of the main antagonists completely disappears without mention 
 at one point. Various other characters from BS1 are brought back but with completely different 
 personalities, and other characters are mentioned in some half-baked way ("Oh yeah, she's my aunt!") 
 to remind longtime fans of what once was. The Voynich-manuscript is mentioned here and there in 
 an attempt to give the game a more real-world quality, but alas. Why this receives such high reviews 
 on GameSpot is a mystery. "Sharp writing?" If you ignore the plot-holes, perhaps. 
  
  A missed opportunity. Too bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skizzo2711
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 22, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Overview
  
  George is back and this time, hes in 3D! Once more he will find himself pulled into an adventure 
 that will require him to use his reasoning, his wits, but this time also his reflexes. And once 
 more he will not have to face these perils alone, because what would George be without Nico?
  
  The Neo Templars, which George faced in Broken Sword: The Shadow of the Templars, have returned 
 and George will have to face their powers once again. Take on the role of George and Nico and meet 
 old and new friends and enemies. Prepare yourself for the final chapter of the trilogy of Broken 
 Sword Accept that the last part isnt true, since there now is a fourth game in the making, but 
 it sounded so cool that I couldnt resist.
  
  The game
  
  Since the third part of the series is in 3D, much of the original concepts of the game have changed. 
 Because lets face it; point and click is almost a genre on its own. So, different controls, a 
 game world in which you can move around more freely and a new cooler 3D look! All these things 
 would surely mean that this game is the best of the three?
  
  Unfortunately the answer is no. Let us begin with George, who weve all come to know as the American 
 patent lawyer who got thrown into an amazing adventure by pure chance. There was nothing special 
 about him apart maybe from his sarcasm every now and then. This time however, George looks like 
 a modern Indiana Jones, because hes all buffed up. And that does spoil the dream a bit, although 
 it is something minor, I admit.
  
  The thing that really disappointed me however, was the lack of conversation. Broken Sword always 
 was a game with much conversation. It added much to the story and the conversations were just fun. 
 The conversations are fun now too, like were used from Revolution, but theres just far less of 
 it and thats a shame.
  
  And then theres one more annoyance: box puzzles. Box puzzles can be fun, box puzzles can be tricky 
 and box puzzles can be a nice change. But please dont put in like a gazillion of them, because 
 thats just too much. Luckily, they arent that hard, so they wont take too long to solve in the 
 game.
  But enough of the negative stuff, its almost as if I dont like the game and thats certainly 
 not true! In fact, Broken Sword: The Sleeping Dragon is in my top 5 of best games and that has 
 to count for something.
  
  So whats there to like? Well, first of all the story. I didnt think it was as good as the first, 
 but then again, it would be impossible to top that one. The story of course involves some of the 
 characters of part 1, since this game is a sequel to it.
  And then there is the 3D. I have to admit, when I first heard that Broken Sword III would be in 
 3D, I was rather disappointed. I didnt want to say farewell to the 2D George I had come to know 
 over the years and of course it would mean that the game wouldnt be the old fashioned point and 
 click. But I was positively surprised when I first played the game. It worked: it looked very nice 
 and it even had the Broken Sword atmosphere.
  Also, the movie-like look of the game adds to the fun. Im not talking about fixed camera points 
 that sometimes make it impossible to see your character. No, Im talking about well chosen angels 
 that give the game a bit of the feeling of a movie.
  
  And the playing itself is just fun. Granted, I regretted the absence of much conversation and true, 
 there were too many box puzzles (and perhaps a little bit too much sneaking around too) , but the 
 rest of the puzzle and riddle solving in the game is just fun. And this game again has the too 
 intriguing to stop playing quality. And thats a very good quality to have for a game.
  The game is not too hard to play and it should be fun enough to play even if you havent played 
 the prequels, but you do miss out on a lot then.
  
  The controls 
  
  The controls have changed a lot from the previous two games, but thats to be expected since this 
 game is in 3D. The game was simultaneously developed for PC, Playstation 2 and Xbox and you can 
 tell by the controls of the PC version (the version which Im talking about) . You use the arrow 
 keys on the keyboard to let the character walk and the A-S-D-W keys for different actions, depending 
 on the possible actions at that time (when you can do something with/to an object, a small display 
 in the upper left corner of the screen will appear. You can control this display with the A-S-D-W 
 keys) . So basically, it is very straightforward. There is however an issue youll have to take 
 into account and that is the combination of the arrow keys and the fixed camera views. An example 
 might explain best.
  
  Let us say that you are walking from the front of the screen to the back of the screen. This means 
 you are using the upward arrow key. While youre walking, the angle of the viewpoint changes: 
 youre now walking towards the camera. Logically you would expect that youd now have to use the 
 down arrow key to walk in the direction towards the camera. This however is not the case. As 
 long as you keep the up arrow key pressed (you keep walking) , this key will let you walk towards 
 the screen, instead of away from it. The moment you stop pushing the up arrow key however, the 
 controls reset and you once again can use the arrow keys to simply walk in the direction theyre 
 pointing at.
  
  I hope you understand what I mean, but basically it comes down to this: get used to the way these 
 controls work (which is not very hard in my opinion) , because there are some action scenes in which 
 youll need to run and running off in the wrong direction doesnt exactly help.
  
  The graphics
  
  Finally also Revolution went to 3D. Feeling that 2D was no longer a realistic 
 option, they went for it. And they did a very good job, in my opinion. Okay, the game doesnt have 
 Half Life 2 graphics, but that really isnt necessary. Characters look good and when theyre not 
 doing anything (like walking around) , they perform some minor tasks. For example, Nico tends to 
 stretch a lot. This also can give you some pretty funny/weird situations, like when Nico is stretching 
 uninterested in the middle of a major plotline conversation. But on overall, these natural behaviours 
 make the game look more realistic.
  The world you walk in is also in 3D, even though youve got fixed camera points, these points can 
 move a little. Again, this is designed very nicely. What I thought to be the best trait, however, 
 was the way they managed to get the typical Broken Sword atmosphere in the game once again.
 
  
  The sound
  
  Once again, the music is great, although I didnt find it as good as the music from the first game. 
 Since Ive described the music from the first game as superb, I would describe the music from 
 this one as great.
  Voices, however, are the same as in the first (and second) game. Once again, Rolf Saxon does the 
 voice of George Stobbart, a voice weve come to associate with the character. And once again, Nico 
 is done by a different person (namely Sarah Crook) than in the previous games. I wasnt too thrilled 
 about her voice in the second game, but this voice is really good. And then there are of course 
 the stereotype voices like the posy British voice, the Australian voice and the typical Eastern 
 Europe voices weve come to expect from Revolution; youve got to love them.
  
  Overall
  
  A worthy successor in the Broken Sword series, although not as great as its predecessors. Very 
 good story and nice puzzles and conversations, but there are just too little conversations and 
 too many box puzzles and sneak sequences. This however shouldnt spoil the fun of solving the mysteries 
 in this game. When playing the game through to the end, youll find yourself wishing that the game 
 was longer. The game being not long enough is a bad thing, you wishing it was longer is a good 
 thing. Focus on the latter and remember that Broken Sword 4: The Angel of Death is in the making.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmw1981
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I haven't even played the first two Broken Sword games, but am currently on eBay trying to find 
 them! I really enjoy the Monkey Island games and this ranks up there with them. Just all out fun 
 and very entertaining. The story is great, characters are awesome and lots of fun and comical experiences 
 along the way. I paid only $10 for it, and have played $30-$50 games much worse than it. It's fun 
 to figure out without being too hard and time-consuming. I recommend this to any person who has 
 ever liked the old-school adventure games. It takes an investigative, puzzle-solving, comical story 
 and throws in very addicting gameplay. Time well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiesenthal
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 3, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I have played all three Broken Sword games, and this game is worthy of being a part of the series.
 
  I know that there are those who dislike the 3D graphics (I was sceptic too at first) , but I think 
 it fits this game.
  The game's difficulty is just right, which makes you feel like you are in a movie, since the story 
 (which is long and takes you around the world) just unravels before your eyes. The story is as 
 always very thrilling, and involves everything from gunfighting to infiltrating a medieval castle 
 in the beautiful city of Prague. 
  For those who are fans of Indiana Jones (which I am) , I can really recommend this game. It has 
 everything that you can possibly want from a good adventure; a hero and his girlfriend, a criminal 
 mastermind, and a diabolical plan to overtake the world. 
  The length of the game is really amazing. I've played it several times, and every time I am equally 
 amazed when I come to a place or situation that I had totally forgotten about. 
  The only thing that I can think is less great than the rest of the game, is the fact that you sometimes 
 have to sneak, in order to avoid guards, and that there are too many crate puzzle.
  Other than that, this is a really, really great adventure game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_boy83
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 16, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  An entertaining Piece of a coaster, sorry shiny disc.
  Do you feel lucky, well do ya, well yes i do. if you liked the original than no doubt you are going 
 to play this if you have'nt already. You have to dont you because the other 2 games were fantastic. 
 more so than this sadly. well after all it has undergone a massive change to 3D. Does it work ? 
 Yes it works to great effect actually, ditching the old point and click and giving you more controll 
 of george and nico. So this would make it easier ? Yes quite an easy game really, you never become 
 as stuck as you did in preveous games bar a few occasions. The games story is there while not the 
 epic it could have been, Excellent graphics though which i'm proud of as this is 3d for the first 
 time (nice job guys) . Gameplay is good, in fact its better than the last 2 games because there 
 is more controll over the games story with multiple questions etc. It is a very enjoyable game, 
 even though it does have its faults such as some areas feel out of place and dont work that well 
 with the story either, some puzzles a bit lame. nevertheless a great game well worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fury-DK
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game, it was kind of a coincidence. I had no idea about the game, except 
 from a short review I read.
  I fed my PC with the disk, and after installing I was ready to play. The first thing that caught 
 my intention in the game was the puzzle in the plane. There's not very many adventure games that 
 start in a plane, who are inches from crashing over the side of a cliff. This game had guts from 
 the very start.
  Anyways, the game has a fair gameplay. There's really nothing special to say about the puzzles 
 which almost every adventure game is centered around. Except from this game, which is not all about 
 the puzzles. Broken Sword 3 is just as much about the story. The persons. And, when the player 
 experiences that this whole game is played from two different persons and two differently perspectives, 
 it just excites him even more.
  This game is brilliant for its story, characters, combination and variety of puzzles and the very 
 different locations.
  
  I haven't felt this sadness of leaving the characters in a game since the brilliant games Monkey 
 Island 3, 4 and Mafia. Nice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neph4444
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 6, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  The story is well-crafted, the music and the graphical style are well-chosen and produced. The 
 characters are stylish, likeable, and the humour is still great. Voice acting is nice and fits 
 to the all-in-all caricaturistic style.
  It's only the unpredictable GUI that makes it a little bitter. You never know which direction will 
 you take when the cam changes next, and also I wasn't able to predict which use button will do 
 what at times (it was unfomfortable but still okay) . What made really really annoying the game 
 was the endless crate pushing and pulling. I just don't get it, why the developers thought it will 
 be fun in this genre. This kind of puzzle was okay in Soul Reaver (and there it had more options, 
 and was most of the time connected to the story) , but here when I saw the crates in Glastonbury 
 2, the only thing that made me continue the game was that I wanted to know the end of the story.
 
  So, I'm waiting for the 4th game to come out, but I honestly hope it will be innovative in puzzles, 
 too, not only in visual style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdemobster
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  Do you like guns or your IQ? Many would answer "guns". I had also the same answer. But then I realized, 
 that in the game you won`t use any weapons. So I asked myself: "What now? How can I defeat or pretend 
 my enemies?" The answer is simple - IQ.
  The whole game is based, on how logical, smart and ingenious you are. There will puzzles and puzzles 
 within the game, that you will need solve. For example, you will have a key and you will put it 
 normally into the lock, but the key will fall out - so you will need a way to somehow hold the 
 key. Simple? No. Or a guy will point a gun to your head and you know, that you will be dead within 
 seconds, if you don`t figure something out. Maybe a pan would protect you?
  Well in short, EVERY single thing will help you - even a simple pencil. And the environment will 
 help you great.
  Sometimes, you will have to investigate the murder and question people (like detective) , sometimes 
 you will need to find certain keys and artifacts, while the enemy will be hot on your tail, have 
 to escape, while the enemy will be shooting at you and try to kill you, solve ancient puzzles, 
 that can cost your life, if are not careful or simply have to knock down the enemy or his weapon 
 (like Tomb Raider or Indiana Jones) . Also, in some levels, you will have to sneak in certain building, 
 steal something from others and mix different items, to open something etc. (like McGaywer) .
  What concerns the graphics and sounds, they have outstanding level of quality, detail, performance, 
 technology and are very interesting for an adventure game. The 3D effects are perfect and beautiful, 
 the ancient room are especially detailed, that shows a work of someone, that has many fresh and 
 interesting ideas. As I`ve said, the sounds are also good - especially from the characters: they 
 look now more emotional and human.
  This game has improved a lot over the previous games in the Broken Sword series. It is surely for 
 everyone, that likes adventure and for those that prefer their intelligence over the weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caliFRAGi
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 16, 2005 7:57 am PT
Review:  The 3rd Broken Sword series. The Adventure is still great. But i don't enjoy it very much.
  
  This game lost it "trademark". I prefer the first (& second) Broken Sword graphics, "2D cartoon". 
 Both main character is not as funny as before. And what makes me feel disappointed, is on the last 
 part of this game (see the bottom section) .
  
  The puzzle become easier. I think that's good. hehe.....
  The room to explore become smaller. 
 not much to explore.
  
  This '3rd' series is the worst of all the Broken Sword series. But I still enjoy it. Still fun. 
 Great storyline. Great puzzles. Still worth to play. Really!!!
  
  
  (Warning: spoiler)
  at the last action, George is fighting a dragon!!! (mistery become fantasy???) . oh... please! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hienkhanht
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 26, 2005 6:03 am PT
Review:  Broken Sword : The Sleeping Dragon is the best adventure game i've ever palyed. I did not like 
 adventure games first but then i changed my mind after i played this. Now, i am hardly looking 
 for a new adventure game just like this one. The best poiint about this game is it is not like 
 the basic adventure game style, click and pick. You control the characters yourself by cusors keys. 
 With normal adventure games, you never get killed at all, but with this game, you can die in some 
 missions and thats just great, that makes the game more fun , real and challengable. And the new 
 part is somestime, you have to do things quickly, if you miss just one second, you will get killed. 
 Just find out this great game yourself.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  it is just great
  
  Story : 10
  the story is awsome, very solid, logic and fun. Just awsome
  
  Graphic : 9
 
  it is good, but not so good. But however, i dont expect anygame's graphic better than this, This 
 game' graphic is just good at all.
  
  Sound : 10
  awsome, you will get emotions, fell like you are the character in the real place.
  
  Value 
 : 10
  excellent
  
  If i was you, i would not want to miss such a great game like this, even if you are not adventure 
 game fan. What are you wating for ????
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2004 10:01 am PT
Review:  I like the story of Broken Sword: The Sleeping Dragon. The idea of two characters with their own 
 tales is a success. It much more fun to get to know two characters instead of just one.
  
  I think the world of Broken Sword is a bit narrow, not leaving much to exploration. Obvioulsy it 
 would be boring to get through room after room not finding any action (like in the library in Paris) 
 but the roads to every seperate goal could be wider.
  
  The graphic is good. I felt that the character movements is a bit stiff but the uniqueness of the 
 characters compensates this. The environment i rich of detail and gives a great atmosphere.
  
  The game has many levels of intrigues and combine puzzle and action in a way that I like.
 
  The puzzles could be a little bit harder and I missed the mindteasing puzzles like those you encounter 
 in e. g. Baldur's Gate. Although the (boulder) puzzles where a little bit to easy the "problems" 
 in general where logic enough and not to hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 1, 2004 5:24 am PT
Review:  This game is only OK for an adventure game. The story, to me, seemed stilted. George, for example, 
 is faced with death and destruction at all times and maintains a flat affect that would make that 
 little girl in the Adam's family proud. Nico is mostly along as a sidekick, and in some areas is 
 nothing more than a pretty person for George to talk to. In fact, both George and I seem to prefer 
 the blond pycho-killer. At least she had some life in her.
  
  OK, I have read in another review that controls are not the place to innovate. I read it in a review 
 of the game Gothic. My trouble is that in Gothic I actually became fond of the controls, and wish 
 more games of its nature would adopt something like it. On the other hand, the weird control scheme 
 of Broken Sword I never grew to like, and found to be an annoyance all the way to the end of the 
 game. For games like Gothic, innovate; for games like Broken Sword, please do not.
  
  The puzzles ranged from simple (the pushing boxes thing became a little played) to ridiculously 
 hard (the wine bottles) . There were some really weird inventory ones. In general they were good 
 and well integrated into the environment.
  
  I play adventure games for two reasons: the characters and the story. This game is a little weak 
 on both, which is why it gets only a mediocre rating for me. Others can speak about the graphics 
 (which I didn't think were that great) . If you are a very serious adventure fan (like I am) this 
 is worth buying and playing through, just to help keep the genre alive. If you are only a passing 
 adventure fan, don't buy this, it might make you not buy any more adventure games down the road... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docto878
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 6, 2004 10:40 pm PT
Review:  I started playing adventure games after I tried Syberia 1, then 2. Also my daughter loves them 
 because they are fairly easy to pick up and generally have no violence. I must say that this game 
 is pretty cool. It is a little on the slow side but the graphics and the storyline are great. Some 
 of the lines in the game are very funny and witty. Sometimes I am not in the mood to blow the entire 
 planet up. If you would like to sit back and immerse yourself in a good story then this is the 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnymott
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 5, 2004 3:40 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of this series as I am then you will absolutely enjoy this game. The graphics 
 and sound are very well done-although not perfect. The storyline is excellent as is the voice acting. 
 The game is quite funny and engaging. 
  The puzzles are generally well done except there are too many block puzzles.
  My main problem 
 with the game was the interface. I would have much preferred the point and click interface of prior 
 games. The camera does not follow the character perfectly and at times, it is difficult to figure 
 out what needs to be done next because the player cannot see well the area of interest. 
  Overall, it is an excellent game and one that leaves you feeling sad after you are done playing 
 it and wishing the game would have lasted just a little bit more. I am hoping for a sequel. Even 
 if you're not into adventure games, I think that you will really like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navahmed
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2003 7:52 am PT
Review:  Adventure gaming at it's best? May be not, but Adventure Gaming evolved for better? You bet! This 
 game is simply wonderful. It is refreshing, very few adventure games release assures that you will 
 not be bored. This is game is Adventure without frustration. Interface can be difficult using keyboard, 
 but it makes game accessable, gone are the days of pixel hunting. Move close to objects and you 
 can see blue star on them. 
  
  Interface is really nice, it shows that characters can run, jump, shoot etc. without involving 
 ACTION! That is, this game provides action while remaining true to the roots of adventure games.
 
  
  Game has some faults, but they never hinder the actual playing experience. You may want to play 
 it using game pad if you don't like playing with keyboard. Voice acting is superb, story is really 
 nice. Puzzles could have been better, especially crate puzzles that can get annoying.
  
  Overall a very good effort from Revolution to bring Broken Sword to new century with 3rd Dimension, 
 and also an important step in evolution of adventure games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perquak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2003 1:37 am PT
Review:  Tired of playing first person shooters? Need a break from the non stop action and mayhem? After 
 finishing Call of Duty, Chaser and Max Payne 2, I know I am. It's nice to be able to drink a cup 
 of coffee while playing a game and not spilling it on your lap. Try an adventure for a change of 
 pace, and this is one of the best available. I played the previous two Broken Sword adventures, 
 and this one is the best of the lot. It ranks on a par with Syberia and The Longest Journey. The 
 story is great - interesting and funny. The graphics are good, but not great like Max Payne 2. 
 The sound and voiceovers are superb. The only fault that I have with the game is the all keyboard 
 interface (no mouse) . It's a real pain having to use the arrow keys to both move and change direction. 
 It's a step backwards that should have been avoided. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warpgiga
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 21, 2003 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Broken Sword: The Sleeping Dragon is a great game, although I find it a little too easy for the 
 experienced adventurer (like myself) , but since the game is so well made, and it's puzzles can 
 be quite entertaining (moving blocks into position, in order to climb over a wall, aligning crystals 
 so a beam can flow through etc.) . The game contains quite a few action elements, but not anything 
 wild, and it's well done (i. e sneaking past guards, while a mate distracts them sort of action) .. 
 If you do something wrong in the action parts, you often end up dying (well, always in fact) - 
 but fear not, you will restart just before the action part in a couple of seconds, and often it's 
 just fun to how it would turn out, if you weren't such a hero :)
  
  The graphics are amazingly well done, don't expect final fantasy beauty, but it's well compensated 
 for in the very cool virtual actor system, which lets the characters use alot of body language, 
 and especially facial expressions.
  
  The controls are good, once you found you way around it. Much like Grim Fandango & The Curse of 
 Monkey Island (4) (tm) , but much better in many ways.
  
  I have just played from start, eight hours in a row, but ofcourse I have no clue what time I will 
 finish it in - but my guess is, it's far from over..
  
  I understand that they wanted to hit a bigger audience with lowered diffuculty, but I would have 
 like to see some form of diffuculty setting - like in The Secret of Monkey Island 2 (tm)
  
  Well done, I'm already looking forward to Broken Sword 4 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
