-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Brothers in Arms: Earned in Blood
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/brothersinarmsnewchapter/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Improved, more-aggressive artificial intelligence.
 Additional multiplayer modes.
 Fantastic cinematic-style presentation.
 Great voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Feels a little too similar to the first game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  6, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.4, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 2,070 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Gearbox Software
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Oct 6, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Brothers in Arms: Earned in Blood offers a rather similar experience to its excellent predecessor, 
 with improved enemy artificial intelligence and additional multiplayer options. The novelty has 
 worn off just a bit, though. 

  When Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30 was released earlier this year, it was lauded for its nearly 
 seamless integration between first-person-shooter control and squad command mechanics. While clearly 
 not as twitchy as most shooters, Brothers in Arms focused on the tactical aspect of small-squad 
 infantry combat in World War II and packaged it with a cinema-quality presentation reminiscent 
 of HBO's  Band of Brothers . Fewer than seven months later, Gearbox has churned out a sequel. And 
 as you'd expect from a sequel turned around so quickly, Brothers in Arms: Earned in Blood offers 
 a rather similar experience to its excellent predecessor, with improved enemy artificial intelligence 
 and additional multiplayer options. The novelty has worn off just a bit, though.  

          If you loved the first game, Earned in Blood offers a lot more of the same great gameplay. 
     

  For those who aren't familiar with the first game, Earned in Blood puts you in the shoes of an 
 American corporal in World War II named Joe "Red" Hartsock. Hartsock was one of the thousands of 
 US Airborne troopers who dropped in behind enemy lines the night before the Normandy landing in 
 France. The story and the campaign are based on the real-life stories of Hartsock and his mates 
 as they fought across the French countryside in those critical first two weeks after the invasion. 
 For those of you who did play Road to Hill 30, Hartsock's name might ring a bell. That's because 
 he was a character in the first game. The storyline in Earned in Blood overlaps that of Road to 
 Hill 30, so you'll get to see Hartsock's point of view, as well as his experiences during the same 
 time frame. As you'd imagine, much of the game is played from a flashback perspective as Hartsock 
 is debriefed on his experiences by a superior officer. The in-engine cutscenes used to advance 
 the story before and after missions are as heartfelt and impactful as they were in the first game, 
 with the voice actor depicting Hartsock doing a fantastic job of conveying the emotion you'd expect 
 from a war-weary soldier.  

  The interface of Earned in Blood is pretty much the same as it was in Road to Hill 30. You play 
 as Hartsock from a first-person perspective and have the ability to walk, kneel, fire, aim down 
 the iron sight of your gun, and throw grenades. You'll also have up to two different fireteams, 
 or one fireteam and a tank, at your command. You can direct each team to follow you, move to an 
 area, open fire on enemies, or charge enemies in an all-out assault. In general, your teammates 
 are intelligent about contextually evaluating their surroundings and finding the proper cover in 
 a given situation. If you direct them near a low wall or log, for example, they'll take up cover 
 behind it. Move them to the side of a building with windows and they'll sidle up between the openings 
 and peer through the windows so they don't leave themselves vulnerable. Once in a while they'll 
 do something stupid, like take themselves out of cover or set up in a bad place. Usually this happens 
 if you plant yourself in the spot you told them to move to.  

          The enemy will actually maneuver and retreat in response to your movement.     

  The 
 primary gameplay conceit in Earned in Blood, as in the first game, is to "find, fix, flank, and 
 finish" the enemy. The enemy soldiers you encounter in the game also move in small fireteams. But 
 unlike most other shooters, the enemies in Earned in Blood can be suppressed by firing at their 
 position. Their level of suppression is measured by a red-and-white circle above the enemy position, 
 but these indicators can be shut off for a more realistic experience. Enemies that are suppressed 
 won't fire back as often, and when they do, they're less accurate. The general idea is that you 
 or one of your teams first engages the enemy with a hail of suppressing fire. Then you direct your 
 other squad element (or yourself) around to the side, where you can get a clean shot at the suppressed 
 enemy and can possibly kill him.  

  What's new about the enemy artificial intelligence in Earned in Blood is that it's more likely 
 to retreat to another position if it spots you flanking, even if it's suppressed. Enemies in the 
 previous game were more likely to sit tight. At the higher difficulty levels, the enemy may even 
 act aggressively, moving to flank you and putting pressure on your squad. It also seems as though 
 you have a smaller opportunity to kill off suppressed enemies that you attack from a flanking position 
 in this game. The return fire you get comes faster and more accurately than before. This all makes 
 Earned in Blood somewhat more difficult than the last game, but overall, veterans of Road to Hill 
 30 should find that this game is remarkably similar. Enemies behind cover are still not invincible 
 to enemy fire. If you're a very careful shot with a rifle, it's possible to pick off enemy soldiers 
 who are poking their heads up from behind cover. But in general, flanking maneuvers still work 
 better when the situation allows for it.     

  As in the last game, the more than 10 missions in Earned in Blood are called "chapters." These 
 will take you across various parts of France -- from farms and forests, to towns and cities -- and 
 they should keep you busy for around 10 hours, counting restarts. The levels feel about the same 
 size as last time, and you're generally compelled to move along a linear path, although there's 
 sometimes more than one angle at which you can approach an enemy or make your way to an objective. 
 Though the novelty of the gameplay mechanics masked the linear nature of the levels in the last 
 game, we found ourselves somewhat disappointed to run into contrived obstacles that kept us from 
 maneuvering as freely as we wanted to in Earned in Blood. The fact that enemies are more apt to 
 retreat or to move exacerbates the problem somewhat more this time around, as you'll often run 
 into situations where flanking is all but impossible. With an enemy backed into a corner, you may 
 find yourself relying on risky assaults by your fireteam elements, which can cost you men, even 
 when the enemy is suppressed. Grenades are another option, but it's somewhat difficult to aim your 
 tosses in Brothers in Arms, making grenade attacks a trial-and-error affair. Thankfully, the game 
 still offers a number of checkpoints throughout each level, and if you find yourself reloading 
 at the same checkpoint a few times, you'll be offered an opportunity (at lower difficulty levels) 
 to revive your health and the health of your squad members at that point.  

          WWII: It's the war we love to keep fighting.     

  There are a couple of new multiplayer 
 options available in Earned in Blood. A skirmish mode lets you play any of the single-player missions 
 cooperatively. Skirmish is available in split-screen mode on a single Xbox, or online over Xbox 
 Live, or on the PC. Other skirmish modes are available as well, including defense, which requires 
 you to defend wave after wave of enemy troops. Timed assault is another mode that requires you 
 to kill all enemies on a map in a given amount of time. Bonus time is awarded for each enemy you 
 take out, and you're scored based on remaining time. Finally, for the hardcore battlefield tacticians, 
 a very difficult tour-of-duty mode is available that requires you to complete five consecutive 
 missions with a single squad and a single life. (Good luck.)  

  Rounding out the multiplayer options is the same objective-based multiplayer mode for two to four 
 players that was available in the last game. There are 20 maps to choose from this time around, 
 and it's pretty much a tactical game of cat and mouse, as each player controls his or her squad 
 and tries to outmaneuver the other team. This mode is as fun and challenging as it was the last 
 time, and the new skirmish modes are pretty fun to play with a friend. Again, since more people 
 seem to be using headsets on Xbox Live than on the PC, and since communication is at such a premium 
 in this game, it's probably a little more fun getting online with the Xbox, assuming you can find 
 a mature playing partner.  

  The presentation in Earned in Blood is excellent, just as it was in Road to Hill 30. The character 
 and vehicle models are quite detailed, and your soldiers animate well, both individually and moving 
 in groups. The lighting and particle effects seem a little better than in the last game, and the 
 sound effects of the different weapons are as sharp and vibrant as ever. The PC version is, of 
 course, sharper than the Xbox version, but both tend to suffer from a bit of slowdown when the 
 action gets really hot and heavy. There's a lot of voice acting in the game, both during battles 
 (as your squadmates shout out to you and to one another) and during cutscenes. While the stuff 
 your squad yells in combat can get a bit repetitive, the voice acting in general is excellent, 
 and Hartsock's is especially noteworthy.  

          Hartsock's heartfelt voice acting is one of many highlights in the presentation.     

 
  Though improvements have been made to the AI, and you've got additional multiplayer modes available, 
 it's somewhat difficult to call Earned in Blood a true sequel. In the end, it delivers a pretty 
 similar experience to the first game, even going so far as to tell an overlapping story. Of course, 
 if you enjoyed Road to Hill 30, then Earned in Blood is definitely worth picking up, both for the 
 tactical gameplay and for the high-class presentation of the story. All told, Earned in Blood is 
 an excellent shooter that offers a unique gameplay experience you won't get with any other shooter 
 franchise.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (90 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Archpimp
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 8:52 am PT
Review:  The second game in the Brothers in Arms series takes it up a notch as far as the story is concerned. 
 Gearbox has done an unprecedented job in recreating actual locations and battles of Operation Overlord. 
 The true soldier interaction lets you actually see into the minds and actions of a combat veteran 
 and the NCOs who led them. I also found this game very helpful as a resource in my own personal 
 research. 
  The gameplay is sometimes not very balanced when compared to Road to Hill 30 as I found myself 
 able to take out squads of Germans without any support from my team while other sections wiped 
 out everyone in a matter of minutes. Mind you this review is written after playing authentic. 
 
  I also found the command icons to be a little finicky when compared to the first game. At times 
 I would place my team near cover only to have them run right past it into the open and get wasted 
 in a matter of seconds. Other times they would stay put and not listen to my commands. The tanks 
 were usually the biggest pain when this issue came up.
  I would like to commend gearbox on their excellent use of sound from the rain tinking on my helmet 
 to the tank missing me by scant inches. The 5.1 is amazing and truly helped me get into the game. 
 Now all I need is a set if 3d glasses and my nerdom will be complete.
  For the one or two people that may actually read this.. buy this game even if it is getting a little 
 old. You will be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  Whether it's acknowledged or not, Brothers in Arms is a clear attempt to cash in on the $125 million 
 HBO masterpiece Band of Brothers and weave a tale of emotional brutality and bloodshed. Band of 
 Brothers itself rode the coattails of Saving Private Ryan, and this theme of sliding down the commercial 
 slide slickened by cash eventually runs dry. The Second World War's slide won't end for years to 
 come, as new generations are introduced to its atrocity and intrigue, but perhaps Gearbox simply 
 forgot to pack swimming trunks.
  
  While that sounds more like a conclusion than an intro, it effectively stimulates my discussion 
 herein of Earned in Blood, which in turn features some highs and abrupt failures which serve to 
 push the question: "Are playtesters paid enough?" Earned in Blood clearly attempts to conbobulate 
 a masterpiece epic set on a massive stage with front-line and squad-level carnage and produce a 
 ballet of bloody tears. Unfortunately, this opera falls flat on its face virtually immediately. 
 From the start, it's clear the voice actors show little emotion and are the largest obstacle preventing 
 a connection to the characters. The writers hit the goal square on the money, but whoever cast 
 this group of no-talent film-school dropouts should be shown to the door with haste. Once "Red" 
 Hartstock takes center stage in a series of flashbacks -through which the game unfolds- everything 
 collapses; which, unfortunately, is immediately. When the voice director told his actors the game 
 required "steely, thousand-yard-stare" emotions, Red's voice actor translated that as "boring, 
 uninterested, and completely devoid of any entry-level human emotion." Which is a serious misstep 
 considering the engine of Earned in Blood's vehicle is intended to be this powerful melodrama. 
 
  
  Secondly, this newfangled squad command mechanic is the gameplay centerpiece Gearbox attempts to 
 install in place of the standard World War II gunplay. I commend its originality, but it has major 
 flaws. First and most obviously, this style of "cover-suppress-flank-kill" dictates a linear and 
 droll level design; every locale must be littered with an inordinate amount of fallen limbs, craters, 
 flatbed rail cars, and stone fences. While I have no doubt the battlefields of World War II were 
 grotesque and looked similar to Earned in Blood's representation, the necessity for every level 
 to be so generic should have been addressed. And don't mistake my pessimism for disdain; this squad 
 control was a blast for the first several levels -perhaps even the first half of the game. But 
 in latter levels, when more is asked of the squad and there are many more enemies to kill, the 
 sheer repetitiveness becomes overwhelming and the game drags. Controlling two squads and sometimes 
 a tank becomes more strategy than I want from my first-person shooter (or too much first-person 
 shooter in my strategy) , and the delicate balance between the two is broken. 
  
  And, my final area of complaint is the checkpoint save system combined with many cheap chokepoints 
 within the levels. From here on out, I simply will not give any title, no matter how spectacular 
 it otherwise is, above a 7.0 that utilizes a checkpoint save system [on the PC] . It is a disgrace. 
 It is an insult to the technical superiority of the platform, and I will not tolerate it any further. 
 It would have been even the slightest bit forgivable had the level designers taken this into full 
 account when setting up chokepoints... but they did not. More than several times, I would shoot 
 through several pockets of Nazis before rounding a bend with squads in tow only to be mowed down 
 by an MG42. Even worse, an occasion occurred where I had properly set up both my squads behind 
 a fence to suppress an enemy while I planned a flanking maneuver, when a halftrack come barreling 
 around the corner and slaughters both squads and finally me. Keep in mind, both squads and myself 
 were perfectly behind cover and in no danger of taking fire. The halftrack simply drove around 
 the cover, stopped, and opened fire. There were no [all-too-convenient] anti-vehicle weapons around, 
 and I had to reload from a checkpoint which which was more than fifteen minutes of game time behind 
 me. That, ladies and gentlemen, is unforgivable. 
  
  As for Earned in Blood's good moments, I did enjoy myself. As I stated previously, the game tends 
 to drag as the repetitive nature of the gameplay takes its tole on my patience, but the uniqueness 
 makes it somewhat more tolerable in the end. The graphics aren't groundbreaking by any measure, 
 but they are good enough to immerse me in the D-Day atmosphere, along with superb sound effects. 
 Even small things, such as blood, dirt, or rain splashing on the camera adds more to the flavor. 
 The game is also fairly lengthy, clocking out around ten or eleven hours, which is even more impressive 
 considering the seven months between it and Road to Hill 30. 
  
  In the end, it's what Earned in Blood strives to be that bogs it down. The epic melodrama its designers 
 mapped out fails due to the lack of talent in the recording studio; the squad command feature makes 
 end-game scenarios drag and sometimes frustrating; and the embarrassing checkpoint save system 
 is a moldy cherry on top of what could have been a damn good game, if covered with year-old icing. 
 I would definitely enjoy seeing more of these story-driven World War II titles, but for now, I'll 
 stick with my Call of Duty.
  
  
  *It is acknowledged actually, as Tom Hanks began work on the miniseries immediately after Saving 
 Private Ryan; Band of Brothers was even filmed in some of the same locations as Ryan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms: Earn in Blood (EiB) , is an innovative action-strategy game. The goal of the game 
 is to kill the enemies, destroy artillery or reach certain points. The first person of the game 
 which you will play as that character is a soldier named "Red". He has two units which he can command 
 in order to win the game.
  
  These units are specialized in flanking or assaulting the enemy. The game basically based on find, 
 fix, flank and finishing the enemy. The goal is to first find the enemy in the field, then fix 
 your troops in a location behind some sort of shelters, flanking the enemies with machine guns 
 or rifles and then finishing them from behind.
  
  The enemies have a flank gauge which shows the status of their flank. Based on this gauge you can 
 decide when to move your troops around the battlefield. When the gauge reaches the gray color, 
 you can move your troops around without the fearing of their death because the enemy won't come 
 up and shoot them.
  
  The battlefield is full of shelters which you or the enemy can use to hide behind them. you have 
 also access to the battlefield map from above. You can see your troops position, the enemy position 
 and your objective area. In this way you can better choose the next shelter to send your troops 
 to. 
  
  The story take place in WW2. As can be seen in the Extra menu in the game, the game is based on 
 true characters and real locations. The dialogs, battlefields, graphics and sounds put you in a 
 place which you wish you can be a part of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: In this secoond installment of Brothers in Arms (Earned in Blood) is a rather similar 
 experience to its excellent predecessor, with improved enemy artificial intelligence and of course 
 new places to fight though. This time you play as Joe "Red" Hartsock, the "other" sergeant from 
 the original game. The new game covers much of the same territory as the original, but you'll be 
 seeing it all from Hartsock's perspective. There are a few moments of dj vu here and there. Like 
 the previous game, instead of relying on the cinematic Rambo action hero approach, players of Brothers 
 in Arms had to effectively lead their squadmates around the battlefield, using suppression fire 
 and flanking moves to outmaneuver an enemy every bit as deadly as the player was. Unlike the first 
 game where the AI was not as good and the enemy usually stayed in the same place or spent longer 
 then usual to make there next movie, the AI is much more aggressive now, particularly on the higher 
 difficultly levels, and you'll find them trying to move around to your flanks. single and multiplayer 
 game types. Of course there are new multiplayer stuff to play after you are done playing with the 
 single play part of the game. Using the game's new Skirmish mode, players can create solo missions 
 or play cooperatively or competitively online. 
  
  Graphics: Well I have to say that the graphics in sum parts of the game are good such as the faces, 
 the expressions of the faces of the soldiers are well done and so is the scenery look good in general 
 while other parts just look not as good such as the Bushes and the ground such as the grass. There 
 also seem to have no bullet holes in this game after you shoot something. 
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is well done such as the voice acting, the soundtrack and most of 
 the noises in the game. I did find that some of the sounds of the guns did not seem all that powerful 
 to me for some reason but that did not matter so much since I wsa to ingaged in the game to pay 
 attention.
  
  Value: This game has a high replay value which you can replay on diffrent difficult settings and 
 for the multiplayer part you have many diffrent options such as capture the flag, team death match 
 and death match and single player missions which will keep you busy for hours. The only problems 
 I found was there was a lack of people playing online. They could of improved on the graphics a 
 little on some parts such as bushes and bullet effects on walls compared to such games as F. E. A. R 
 which came out at about the same time. Also sound of guns could of been a little better too but 
 all in all this is a great Tactical shooter that no one should miss. I give this game 8,5 out of 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Lich-King
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 6
  Gameplay: 8
  Multiplayer: 9
  Storyline: 9
  Impression: 8
  
  Score: 8 (7.8 real)
  
  When I played Brothers in Arms Road to Hill 30 I enjoyed it but 
 it just felt there was something lacking. Just a spark that seperates the great games from the 
 amazing games. What ever was missing they've certainly added it. Earned in Blood is by far one 
 of the most enjoyable games I've ever played. 
  
  There are many World War Two shooters out there but Brothers in Arms there are a few things that 
 seperates it from the other ones. The first and most obvious is the squad tactics. In most WWII 
 shooters you are a one man army. Even if there are other soldiers around you, your the one who 
 is always rushing the machine gun. In Brothers in Arms you have to use your squad using simple, 
 yet deep controls, to flank the enemy. The other thing that is fairly different from other World 
 War Two games is the story. Many don't have one and just have you fighting through battles. In 
 Brothers in Arms each member of your squad has a certain personality. As you progress through the 
 game you grow more attached to your men. This makes it much more emotional if one of your men dies. 
 Although the first Brothers in Arms had a similar story I became much more attached to the characters 
 in the game. Another thing I had a problem with in the last game was the aiming. Your aiming is 
 realistic in that you have to go into the iron sights to aim. It's also realistic because your 
 breathing effects how much the gun moves. It always seemed impossible to shoot anything in the 
 first game. Perhaps it was because I played the first one without a mouse and keyboard, but I felt 
 that the aiming was much more tighter in Earned in Blood and I could generally shoot better. In 
 the first game many people complained that it got too repetitive, because all you did was suppress 
 and then flank. You still primarily do this but it feels as if there is many more risks you have 
 to take. Like running across open ground that is covered by a machine gun. This keeps the action 
 much more intense. Another improvement they've added is a skirmish mode to the game. There are 
 several missions in which you can play by yourself or with a buddy. 
  
  There were two main problems I had with the game. The first is the graphics. They just can't stand 
 up to PC giants like Quake 4 or F. E. A. R. I also found a few graphical glitches. One time in particular 
 I found a black stripe shooting out from a soldiers face to the side of the screen in a cut scene. 
 Another problem I had with the game is the sound. Although the sound effects for things like artillery 
 and voice acting is amazing it was the sound of the guns that got me. Many of them sound very weak, 
 particularly the MG42. 
  
  Brothers in Arms Earned in Blood is an amazing game. I've never been so emotionally attached to 
 characters in a game. It is an unbelievable differenced that everyone should try.
  
  The Good: 
  -the feeling
  -how soldiers help you
  
  The Bad:
  -graphics
  -sounds
 
  -there are some glitches and bugs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zantozzzz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  If you have played this games after played Road to Hill 30, you will understand the story very 
 good.
  
  In this game we can see that the graphics get better and the enemies become very hard to defeat. 
 They have improved the textures and terrain details.
  
  Earned in Blood is more realistic than road to hill for some reasons. 1- We can only put a grenade 
 into an enemy tank if the door of the turret is open. 2- The blood effects are great (now we can 
 see better the details when we throw a grenade and the explosion cuts the enemies' legs.
  
  Also on this game we can see that there are more enemy tanks to destroy and fortunately on those 
 missions it's very easy to find Panzerfausts or we have our own tank.
  
  In this number we have a new option that we did not have on Road to Hill 30 and is that we can 
 ask for ammunition to our team mates. Also we see new weapons such as the FG42 with scope, the 
 "grease gun".
  
  The graphics are not very good like Hell's Highway but you can have fun with this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaming_Samurai
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  Overview: Tactics are the key word in this game, it's all about how you control your squad and 
 what decisions you make. Unless you're in the army or have army training you'll know more tactics, 
 but the main game tactic is flanking. It's actually not that easy to sneak up on a enemy squad 
 and spray the bullets, since your guys fire when running.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are extremely well done. The weapon detail, scenery, everything looks awsome. 
 Nothing more then that can really be said about the Graphics of the game.
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is pretty amazing. The way you control your squad can be a little hectic, 
 if you're used to zooming in with the in-game action button. The thing I find the most interesting 
 is that there is no cross hair. I know how this sounds, but it's not as bad as all that and if 
 you're a real fan of WW2 shooter's, then you're gonna enjoy this. It really gives the feel troops 
 had in the war.
  
  Sound - The sound in the game is very good as well. When you're charging at the enemy, you hear 
 the bullets wizz by your head, you hear them bouncing or hitting surfaces. Not to mention the voice 
 acting, and the screams the German's give out, when shooting them down.
  
  Overall, this game is most probably the best WW2 shotter, ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  Story: Your Red. a squad member from bakers team. Take back carentan
  
  Missions: Kill the germans. take the objective
  
  Controls: Standard FPS controls with a little 
 learning curve to the commands
  
  Features: A great story, good controls, awesome gameplay
  
  AI: The AI in this game is amazing. They know what you are going to do and they are going to 
 stop you
  
  Graphics:. Great for its time and good for today. Enviroments are detailed and the buildings, streets 
 and everything else looks just like it did in 1944.
  
  
  Audio: Amazing voice acting and music makes this game a masterpiece. The voice acting is very professional 
 and the battle sounds make you feel like your actually in the dday carrying a rifle fighting the 
 enemy.
  
  Multiplayer: Standard FPS Multiplayer. meh
  
  Requirements: Mouse and Keyboard, be pretty good at tactical shooters
  
  The Good: Great story 
 and graphics+audio
  
  The Bad: Some crazy bugs in the game.
  
  The Ugly: Nothing
  
  Replay Ability: Medium
  
  The Bottom Line: The most amazing game out this year. A great conclusion 
 to a long running series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamehell321
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms continues the epic WW2 saga with the second installment to the fabled series. 
 Not much has changed in terms of graphics or gameplay, though the A. I has been made a bit smarter 
 and the graphics slightly improved, since it's based in reality, and real life tactics dont change 
 during a winning battle like Normandy. The famous characters of 2nd Platoon, Fox Company return, 
 this time focusing on the reminiscences of Cpl. Joe "Red" Hartsock and his travels in the Normandy 
 Campaign. The incredible journey begins with Colonel S. L. A. Marshall, (an older Colonel who interviews 
 hundreds of Allied soldiers after their fighting in Normandy) interviews Hartsock which propels 
 the story onwards. Again, i can't tell the whole story, it'd take all night, you have to get this 
 award winning series for yourself. The tactics are the same as Road to Hill 30 and the same basic 
 characters return, as Cpl. Hartsock fights through the first week of the Historic invasion, he 
 is to lead a small group of paratroopers to their ultimate objective: The city of Carentan under 
 the command of his close friend Sgt. Matthew Baker, Red sees that Baker isn't ready to accept his 
 new command of 3rd Squad but has confidence in him and is there when Baker needs him. After the 
 101st overran Carentan and repelled a major German counter offensive on Hill 30 Hartsock is promoted 
 to Sergeant of 2nd Squad, which puts him a bit away from Baker, but also gets him a full squad 
 of soldiers, soon he begins seeing Baker starting to lose it and starts acting in a position of 
 authority over Baker, and lends a shoulder to cry on for him. Hartsock met with a stray 82nd Airborne 
 member on the night of the drop, Cpl. Doyle. They are also close friends and depend heavily on 
 each other when Baker isn't around. Sadly Cpl. Doyle is killed along with Pfc. Paige who is also 
 in Hartsock's 2nd Squad in St. Sauveur on D-Day+10 June 16, 1944. Now Red is wondering if he too 
 will overcome the horrors of war and get home to his wife and daughter in Wyoming. The Musical 
 score is once again performed by the MUSA FILMharmonic Orchestra, it is BY FAR the best music I've 
 ever heard in any game, it's VERY emotional and heartwarming. This game has got a place of honor 
 in my game collection along with the Legendary Road to Hill 30. I recommend this game to anyone 
 interested in history, WW2, and life-altering storylines. These two games are even fully endorsed 
 by the Patton Museum foundation, the V. F. W, the National D-Day Museum, eyewitness accounts, the 
 Army signal Corps, the National Ordinance Museum, and even West Point. 
  
  
  You cant say that about any WW2 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Interface: 8.5/10
  - The first thing I noticed gameplay wise was that the aiming and shooting is very realistic, but 
 with that comes a certain amount of challange and difficulty. It seems that even if the iron sights 
 are dead on they still don't always hit the target, its annoying but very realistic being guns 
 don't always shoot exactly where you point. The story was like most of any WWII, this one was focused 
 on just the airborne campaigns. The game is setup where the cutscenes are your character telling 
 the story and the gameplay is you re-living his experiences. There is a lot of squad tactics involved 
 and unless you plan or play your squads right, you will end up dead very quickly. Game was pretty 
 tough, even on the easiest setting, so if your not a decent FPS player, you may need some practice 
 to get this game right.
  
  Environment & Immersion: 9/10
  - Enviornment and immersion are almost everything you would come to expect from this game. Environment 
 can tend to be overly dark on some maps though. I was able to really able to get into this game 
 and play throught it in just a few sittings.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 8,5/10
  - All around graphics were great, expecially explosions which has the lovely rag doll effect. Some 
 maps were overly dark.
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
  - Some of the best sound out of any WWII game i've played, voices and gunshots are very realisitc. 
 Adds to how well you can immerse yourself into the game.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 7.5/10
  - Not any bug problems or stability problems. I will note 
 on the development side, there should have been a way to heal, unless I totally over looked it, 
 I never could heal in any sort of way until the mission/chapter was over or from dying to much. 
 This makes things very difficult.
  
  Replay value: 7.5/10
  - I certainly could run though this game a few times, expecially with the unlockable cheats or 
 even if you look up the console cheats for added fun. 
  
  Value for money: 9/10
  - Well the listings for this game are all $10, for that price I can't help but say its totally 
 worth buying.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - This game 
 as an individual, probably not being it doesn't offer anything unique that really makes it stick 
 out. As for the series, I'll have to see. This game definately is worth buying and playing, I'll 
 just have to see if the others in the series are worth it.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - FPS fans and expecially the ones who love WWII games.
 
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 8.5 - Definately worth the $10 it now goes for. Great squad tactics mixed with your great 
 WWII history style FPS. A lot of fun for your advanced FPS players, can be overly difficult at 
 times but nothing too impossible. I certainly hope the rest of the series is this good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms Earned In Blood is probably the most realistic your gonna get in a WW2 game. It's 
 also very intense and requires you to use your sqauds in order to survive a battle. If you loved 
 Road to Hill 30's gameplay then you'll definitely need this game.
  
  In the campaign for Earned In Blood you play as Sgt Joe 'Red' Hartsock. He was also featured in 
 the first BIA game, Road To Hill 30 but in that game you played as Matt Baker who also makes his 
 appearances in Earned In Blood. The story is based on a true story (basically your fighting your 
 way through Fance just after D-Day) . 
  
  Anyway, what makes this game intense, realistic and tactical then? Well, in the tactical sense, 
 you command 2 squads (on most missions) and occasionly a tank. OK this doesnt sound like anything 
 new but in order to survive you NEED to use your squad about 90% of the time. There have been times 
 when both squads have been wiped out and I've managed to get through a mission on my own but this 
 is extremely rare, and it's only happened on the earlier missions. The reason you need to use your 
 squads are because the enemy AI is very good and you will die in a few shots. You have to use cover 
 as well or you could get hit at any point. The enemy may be smart but so are your men. If you send 
 them to a short wall, say, they wont just stand there and shoot, the'll take cover behind it and 
 fire at the enemy to stop them firing back at you. They'll also shoot at the enemy while dashing 
 towards cover. They will only really do stupid idiotic things if you tell them to. The main tactic 
 recommended is to get 1 squad of men to fire at an enemies position to get the enemy to stop firing 
 and get the other squad to do a direct attack (basically run up and shoot them while there not 
 shooting) . One cool feature is this mode that lets pasues the battle and lets you locate you enemies 
 postions and you and your men so you can get a better view of the battlefield. You can rotate the 
 camera too and this mode is great planing out what you will do.
  
  Another realistic part of the game is the accuracy of the weapons. You have to take your time when 
 you shoot or you'll just end up missing all the time. Each authentic WW2 weapon featured here all 
 work differently and have their own strengths and weaknesses. The weapons you'll be carrying will 
 usually be a rifle (there are many different rifles) and a sub machine or rapid fire weapon. You 
 can carry 2 weapons so you should vary them. Luckily you can pick up the German's weapons too. 
 
  
  The graphics in Earned In Blood are nice if you crank up the resolution and performance settings. 
 The trees and grass look very nice while the building look decent and run-down like they should 
 though not as nice as the country side locations. The locations you fight in are actual recreations 
 of the real thing so they feel very realistic. A nice effect of the game is the mud that flies 
 on the screen if you very close to incming bullets and explosions and rain that splats on the screen. 
 You wont need a high end PC to run this maxed out by any means, you probably wont even need a mid-range 
 PC either so this should look decent on most systems. A PC with a 3GHz processor, 1GB RAM and GeForce 
 6 series card should run this at high perfectly (im guessing this because my PC is a 3.4GHz processor, 
 1GB RAM and a GeForce 7 series card and it runs it at high perfectly) .
  
  The sound here is extremely high quality- excellent cinema-style voice acting throughout from the 
 soldiers. The gunshots, explosions etc are top notch too, though you'll find the voice acting the 
 most impressive in the sound category.
  
  The offline gaming doesnt stop at the story mode either- there is a new skirmish mode where you 
 can play thorugh objective-based missions as teh Americans or the Germans. Each amry has different 
 missions. This mode gives the game much more replay value and it is great fun if you just want 
 to have a quick blast at the game.
  
  You can also play this mode online and other modes too. I dont think the multiplayer is as good 
 as the story mode but this is still some great WW2 online online tactical shooting (although setting 
 this game up online is annoying) .
  
  The bad points of the game is that it is very, very hard at times which frustrates some people 
 really badand you cant save at any point, there are checkpoints so if you die sometimes you will 
 have to go back pretty far. Also, apart from better AI and longer missions, there isnt hardly anything 
 new in the gameplay since Road to Hill 30. The graphics engine hasnt exactly been improved either 
 so graphically, it looks basicaly the same as the last one did.
  
  If you love WW2 games then you definitely need this game- it's one of the best WW2 games available 
 along with Call Of Duty and Medal Of Honor.
  
  RECAP:
  Pros:
  +Very intense, tactical action based on a true story
  +Good squad tactics
  +Excellent voice 
 acting
  +Skirmish mode for more replayabilty and online multiplayer
  +Great graphics (but not improved)
  
  Cons:
  -Hardly any new gameplay
  -Graphics engine 
 decent but not improved
  -You cant save at any point and the checkpoints are quite spread out with long hauls in between 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadhouse
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Over all like the game, hate the sights on the weapons. Understand it's WWII and all but they should 
 allow more weapons especially once you play through a couple of times. Like the game had no time 
 restraints even though I was able to run through it, not literally. Took my time sneaking around 
 using my squads accordingly and adventually on to the next level. Not for sure about the cut scenes 
 and the dialogue wasn't for sure if there was a way to skip it so I had to watch them all. I don't 
 like the fact I was getting into the battles and enjoying the game only to have to sit and wait 
 through them. Either I wasn't pushing the right button but it seemed like nothing would allow me 
 to skip them. Playing through for a second time installed this game yesterday about 2pm played 
 it until 3am got up played about hour and a half was done with the normal level. Couple hours later 
 on Difficult and I am about half way through. It didn't appear to become harder just more guys 
 to take out. Like the game look forward to playing the Road to Hill 30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotch69
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This was a game that was very difficult and challenging to complete. The story was good, but it 
 seems like the only reason I was able to complete it was they felt sorry for me after a few reloads 
 and healed up my squadron and myself. I have never seen such accurate enemies and inaccurate shots 
 of my own. The checkpoint system of saving makes it that more difficult. Why are games still doing 
 this? I need to be able to save just about after I kill every enemie to make any progress. Each 
 mission took one to two hours do to this. I was glad to beat it, but also glad it was over. This 
 will likely be my last Brothers in Arms game that I play. If they added a save anywhere component 
 it would be the only way I would consider another of these type of games. Sometimes I don't have 
 one to two hours to devote to gaming. This type of save game option needs to be eliminated permanently. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rowzzr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: very simple, find your enemy, use your fire team to fix your enemies where they are unable 
 to hit back aggressively, find a good firing position with your fire team, then finish your enemies. 
 the whole game has military tactics as its very backbone, so you'll using strategy on this game 
 all the time, instead of the usual burst-fire your enemies till you get to the end of the map.
 
  
  military tactics on this game is simplified by the fact that your game pauses when you press "V", 
 which loads the map of the current battle. in it, you are able to see how you can maneuver your 
 opponent, corner them and finally kill them. pressing this button gives you all the time you need 
 to outwit your opponent.
  
  however, there are certain parts of the game where it is impossible for you to flank your enemy's 
 position - thus, leaving the player to burst-fire on the enemy target.
  
  GRAPHICS: graphics are very good, especially during its time. it still looks well to date - but 
 definitely not comparable to the latest games such as Crysis, if you're looking for a game that 
 looks like that.
  
  SOUNDS: the voice acting in this game is better than the first game, which had horrible voice acting. 
 this sequel's voice acting is quite superb, in fact.
  
  CONTROLS: controls are very simple, and very easy to get used to. your only problems would be using 
 the grenade in this game because it really makes the player go trial and error. the bazooka (panzerfaust) 
 in this game isn't really easy to aim when you're using its scope mode, much better aim would be 
 attained when you use the normal shooting mode.
  
  your tactics are easily gained by pressing on shift to access one team, shift again to access the 
 other. use your mouse to direct their position, or firing.
  
  OVER-ALL IMPRESSION: this game is great, but it's lost its nostalgia compared to the first game. 
 it's great that you're able to see the game's development in the EXTRAS section. the game looks 
 weak on the graphic design parts (use of FONTS, etc.) it has its irritating parts, where there's 
 points in the game that you may onl use one of two tactics, or charge and get killed, burst-fire 
 on the enemies - because it's impossible to flank your enemies' position, especially taking note 
 of the AI's movements.
  
  GREAT GAME, WORTH BUYING. if you didn't like it, give it another chance as i did the first game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'm writing this and it's been quite a while after I've played it. To be perfectly honest, 
 so many good games have been made on this topic that I've mixed them all up and don't know which 
 one this is. These games are all linear but still very well done and I couldp lay them no matter 
 how many of them they make. 
  
  So, I won't be specific and I will mark / rank all of the games on of this genre with the same 
 mark of 9.0 as I think they are all incredible but it is really hard to have a game worth 10 on 
 this usbject matter as long as they are linear. 
  
  The only game that will get 9.5 will be Brother in Arms: Earned in Blood, and so here it is. The 
 only reason I'll add the extra 0.5 is because this was the first time I played a game where I commaned 
 a unit and I think it was pretty well done. It actually brings the reality of war to you. You cannot 
 just pop yuour head up and aim for lousy AI computer bot heads. That's not war, war and close combat 
 is all about outflanking the enemy. 
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing 
 if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Brothers In Arms: Earned In Blood.
  This game takes us back to WW2, where the American soldiers take back territory from the Nazi Germans. This 
 sequel offers abilities like, a team where we are the commander, and give orders. The interesting 
 part is the way these AI soldiers take cover and give backup protection against the Germans. one 
 more aspect of the game to look out for is the 3D Map.... Gosh... is it good or what..!!! the map 
 is awesome and gives an In-Dept information and View of the whole battlefield. it very important 
 coz, we can make a strategic move around the safe zones. The depiction of the Soldiers is truly 
 amazing, i mean it gets into you... the pain the soldiers had to go through to suppress the Nazi 
 Army.... A great Story and Gameplay. The graphics are neat and hassle free. the sound and voice enactment 
 is amazing. the learning curves are pretty easy too. Over All this is a truly Epic game.... i say, 
 its a must have for all gamers who love War Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  If you played the first brothers in arms game, this is more of the same. except this time, you 
 play as the red headed character, his name escapes me at the moment. everyone calls him red. i 
 think. moving along, the graphics are the same but it lags more, the biggest perk is the ability 
 to create a custom single or multiplayer battle thingy, and they can be pretty fun. the same tactical 
 brilliance that was in the first one returns, but this game is a bit more fast paced and there 
 isn't always cover to rely on. if you like the first one and want more of the same, then this game 
 is for you. if you didn't like the first one, then don't excpect this game to be any better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddai
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 20, 2007 2:57 am PT
Review:  I got this game in my 14th B-day as a present from my friends that organize a little meeting in 
 a Coffee shop (it was like 2 month after my actually B-day... but still)
  
  I wanted this game so much and it was out shortly after the first game so the excitement was still 
 fresh. Only when i played the game for the first time i realize you play here the same missions 
 but from Hartsock's view and of course you are the leader this time and you never fight together 
 with Baker but with your own soldier (and some new soldiers will be in your team in addition to 
 familiar faces from RTH30 one of them is Doyle who is your best friend) .
  
  The Graphic and Sound is the same of course like RTH30 as well as the commanding system and the 
 MP mode too...
  
  New things are few new weapons like the German K98 rifle with scope and the American M3 Grease 
 Gun with new type of Vehicles to fight with/against. (No Bazooka in the game though...) . Also the 
 German will fight you with Heavy Cannons later in the game which makes the combat much more exciting 
 (I may also say that the Germans are much smarter with better AI and they are much more bad a** 
 ) .
  
  The story is as good as before and may even better and more exiting this time Hartsock tells the 
 story as he is interviewed after the battles and he tells his story by the actual levels.
  
  This is a worth game for everyone who bought the original game so BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percypoo
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 23, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  In 2007, WW2 FPSs are getting old, personally i just want to play Call of Duty 3 and call the whole 
 WW2 thing a day. But if you enjoy this genre and haven't played this game yet, your halfway there 
 to being sure to enjoy this title. If you also like middlingly fast paced strategic action then 
 this game should be your bag. If so, please read on...
  
  You are Sgt Joe Heartsock, (AKA red) . the story of the game is told by Heartsock having an interview 
 with senior officer colnel... can't remember his name sorry. Anyway, cutscenes of heartsock's interview 
 set the scene for the in-game action that awaits you.
  
  It's worth mentioning that Heartsock is a paratrooper of the 101st Aibourne division and that the 
 whole of the game is set in occupied france from D-day onward. That should set the scene, now I'll 
 briefly run through the important details. On the 1st mission of the game, you parachute behind 
 enemy lines on D-day morning and you gradually locate your squad, with composes of 6 men, three 
 in the fire team, equiped with rifles and able to supress the enemy, and the other three make up 
 the assault team, armed with machine guns and suited to close quarters combat and storming strong 
 emeny positions. And in some missions you will be commanding a sherman tank in wich you can operate 
 the mounted machine gun. You can issue 4 basic orders to each division of your squad separately. 
 A simple right click with the cursor pointed at where you want to go will command your men to move 
 to any possible position. Pressing and holting the shift key issues the on me! order. Right clicking 
 on an enemy team will order supressing fire. When the circle above the enemy's head fills up with 
 red, the enemy is suppressed. When the enemy is suppresed it is best to flank and assault them. 
 Holding down the right mouse button and clicking the left mouse button issues this order. The assault 
 command orders your men to charge the enemy until at colse quarters, when extremely close your 
 men will engage in hand to hand cobat with ther guns. Fortunatley, these melee battles are simple 
 and last only a matter of seconds, for they are not wht the developers of the game were focusing 
 on.
  
  And so the game goes on with it's 13 levels and it will take most players just over 10 hours to 
 finish on the default difficulty setting and possibly longer when you crank up the difficulty, 
 In doing so enemy AI will get harder, being the only difference in the harder settings. Speaking 
 of AI, you will most likely be content with the inteligence of your squad and your other allies. 
 They use cover well and are good shots. Battles are generaly small and feature a maximam of about 
 30-40 men per-side. Tactics and strategy are the main elements of the gameplay.
  
  Objectives are what you've come to expect from WW2 FPSs, storm the bunker destory the artillery, 
 set up the smoke signal etc. It's how you achieve these goals that matters.
  
  Pressing the V key opens up a fantastic tactical view of the whole battlefield and on story mode 
 also pause the game, giving you limetless time to plan your strategy. You can rotate 360 and look 
 from all heights on the tactical view, with the centre view on your teams, enemy teams or your 
 current objective. The level design features real areas both rural and urban to fight in. Levels 
 are designed well and mostly offer multiple oppertunities of completing you objectives.
  
  The games presentation is good. Characters animate well and enviroments have good textures. The 
 game will run on top quality on mid-range systems, so crank up the graphics befoore playing. Sound 
 features good music and sound effects, (turn it up) . The game has a good atmosphere so I'll talk 
 about that last thing. Your squad all have names, and personalities and all have great voice acting. 
 They die and are replaced at certain points in the game. It's based on a true story so anyone who 
 dies that isn't meant to is revivable at checkpoints. The end of the game is the toughest part 
 and a main character dies dramatically in the most intense and final battle. The climax of the 
 game is the most entertaining part and when i'ts all over you can stull enjoy the relatively fun 
 solo play, featuring objective based missions and defence missions against waves of Nazis and much 
 more that i have'nt explored yet. I don't know how to get online play on ubisoft games it's to 
 bloody compliacted! So if you want to know about the apparently good multiplayer, read the main 
 gamespot review or someone elses review.
  
  Anyway i'd just like to say that this is a fun game and i reccomend it to the audience i suggested. 
 It's not a deep time consuming thrill ride as much as a fun tactiacal experience wich seems to 
 have simplicity at heart. If it didn't I wouldn't bother writing my entire review for it up till 
 00.10 o-clock. So i hope you find my review helpful and you make the right coice about wether or 
 not to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 31, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  Be another soldier &amp; fight against tha nazis in this sequel of a great tactical shooter. Brothers 
 in Arms-Earned in Blood is very similar to Brothers in Arms-Road to Hill 30, difference between 
 them of only about 6 months. The graphics are good &amp; spectacular, but not as good as in Call 
 of Duty 2 or other shooters,&amp; they look kind of... weird (the textures) . The sound is good, with 
 very good voice acting &amp; music, but the gun sounds don't sound really good &amp; realistic. 
 The gameplay is based on tactics. You're the boss,&amp; have two teams. With a simple interface, get 
 your teams to cover, behind anything. Order one to supress the enamies. After they're supressed, order 
 your 2nd squad to wipe them out. You can assist both of them in their work. But it's very hard, &amp; 
 Rambo-attacks won't work. What's annoying sometimes is that jerrys don't die even with a headshot, but 
 that's repaired with a patch. The story is the best ever of a WWII game, you'll really feel in there, with 
 your teammates &amp; tell your story. Amazing. If you like tactics, try it, you'll certainly love 
 it. If you do, wait for Brothers in Arms Hell's Highway-it'll be the best FPS ever, I have that feeling... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 18, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  The great thing about a number of WW2 based games is these games were based on true battles; and 
 Brothers in Arms Earned in Blood adds further realism to it by involving an airborne war veteran 
 Joe Hartsock. This sequel of the first Brothers in Arms is again based on Hartsock's real experience. 
 What could be better than a game that is based on a true incident of blood and glory?
  Gearbox Software also made thorough research of the weapons used in these wars. As you proceed 
 through the game levels (which are off course packed with game like actions -- with the enemies 
 more watchful than ever before) , you will also get historical facts and briefs of the real weapons 
 which are simulated in the game. In other word, the presentation all along gives you a feeling 
 of being close to the war -- without being affected by the atrocities of the war. With intense actions, 
 real voice of Hartsock, clever enemy strategies and fantastic graphics, the game remains as cool 
 as the first installment. My only complain is that the game ends pretty fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  Im going to review EIB working on the assumption that youve played road to hill 30, If you havent 
 then there is no good reason why you shouldnt do that first.
  
  Improvements over RTH30: Theyve improved the graphics a bit, it looks somewhat nicer and cleaner, 
 plus theyve added HDR. They over use the HDR in places but its still nice to see. A Skirmish 
 mode has been added, which can be played as US or German, with 5 missions, lots of settings and 
 game types, can also be played co-op which is always a great addition.
  The AI has picked up the pace a bit, though not massively, it was pretty good the first time around. 
 You still get the odd annoyance where one of your squad insists on taking cover on the wrong side 
 of the wall but other than that its pretty polished. The Germans move a lot more and tend to retreat 
 if they see theyre being flanked.
  The ability to shoot what you see has improved, before in many cases you could see bits of someone 
 sticking out from cover but it wouldnt be possible to hit them.. Now it is, also you can shoot 
 through the gaps in wooded fences which I dont think you could before. Wont go into the fact 
 that all the guns in the game would punch straight through any fence, just a gaming mechanism I 
 guess.
  
  The single player campaign:
  Played from the eyes of Hartsock rather than Baker this time, essentially more of the same, filling 
 in some of the back story and parallel action from the original and takes it further, a good size 
 game.
  Its pretty hardcore, theyve ramped the difficulty right up and it basically forces you to play 
 tactically. In RTH30 I never used the overhead tactical view but in EIB its essential, about 80% 
 of maneuvers need to be planned out tactically and well executed or you take lots of pain. There 
 are the save points to save you from the harshness of some of the levels and you can choose to 
 reload from that point with full health, and although I find personally that detracts from the 
 atmosphere of the game it can otherwise be rather frustrating if you try to play without cheating. 
 The game isnt as gripping as the first, you dont get quite the same feeling for the characters 
 and you dont feel there quite as much as with the original but its still good enough. Main 
 complaint is that the difficulty is such to bog down the play sometimes and frustrate rather than 
 challenge.
  
  On the whole another solid game and a very good option for WW2 fans and Tactical FPS fans alike, 
 run and gun FPS fans beware that this is hardcore tactical but having said that there is still 
 a definite action feel, its not too dry.
  I end up feeling that perhaps they focused a little too much on the extras and not enough on the 
 actual single player game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 13, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I hesitated getting this game a long time having played Road To Hill 30 , &amp; Call of Duty 1&amp;2. 
 But what really grabbed me was the skirmish mode. That IS a first. Now I picked up the game at 
 bargain price ($AUS7.99) and I am dumbfounded how folks who love WW2 shooters have avoided this 
 product. Gone are the slow-mo deaths of German soldiers from Hill 30 (thankyou Gearbox... they sucked) , 
 and what, you may ask is the difference? Skirmish Mode. The Story is excellent, as it was with 
 the first installment, but with the included skirmish mode... who needs on-line (which doesn't exist 
 anymore) . It's fun, brutal and unforgiving.... and let's you play as the Germans. Unlike many reviewers, 
 I rate this higher than the previous installment. It's not cutting-edge, but it's damn good fun 
 (and a challenge) . Endulge yourself with skirmish mode and see if you don't come back for more. 
 I dare you! As a side note, the weapon sounds have been released as Mods for CoD2 .
  'nuff said! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  The campaign begins under the eyes of Joe Red Hartsock. Hartsock fought with Mike Baker (the main 
 character of Road to Hill 30) and you will find yourself joining and separating yourself from his 
 squad throughout the course of the game. During the cutscenes, Hartsock reports to his superior 
 officer and the flashback begins. The developers of EiB have done a good job of getting you to 
 personally connect with the main character and for those who have played the Road to Hill 30, it 
 will be a bonus for them. A lot of the story in Earned in Blood crosses over into Road to Hill 
 30.
  
  If you have played Road to Hill 30, you can't expect too much from Earned in Blood (EiB) except 
 for its very difficult single player campaign. On standard settings it is difficult. Part of this 
 problem stems from having to reach save points within the game. These save points are heavily defended 
 by well placed germans sitting in the perfect spots to cover most of the area. In some parts of 
 the game it gets really difficult that I have deliberately killed my whole team (including myself) 
 just so that the game will be merciful enough to grant me full health when I head back to the battlefield. 
 I have just recently completed this game and it is no walk in the park.
  
  Enemies in the older game like to sit around and get suppressed. Not here. Now, enemies will move 
 to a more strategic spot and can detect if you're flanking them. In some cases, they join up with 
 other enemies or hail for reinforcements. It can be difficult at times, especially if you're pinned 
 by two tanks and the closest Panzerfaust is next door to a large enemy squad with an MG. In many 
 parts of the game, you'll wish you had that extra grenade or you'll wish your soldiers were as 
 smart as the enemy and learn to find cover instead of waiting in one place. You'll want to have 
 your tank hide from 88s and not just be a sitting duck. Then again, this wouldn't be called Brothers 
 in Arms if you didn't have anyone to command.
  
  As for the graphics, story, and gameplay EiB relatively stays the same from its predecessor. What's 
 new is the main character, nicer cutscenes, more city battles, difficult missions, and more difficult 
 enemies.
  
  Since I've completed the game, it can't be too bad, but there are cases where you'll be frustrated. 
 Either way, it is a good WWII shooter game that you can't go wrong with especially if it's just 
 30 bucks.
  
  radcastro. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daphix
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 14, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  It's a great FPS even if it's almost the same as BIA Road to hill 30. The gameplay it's fantastic. 
 You can almost feel that you are there with your comrades and fighting for survival. To bad it 
 does not have a campaign with the germans (at list you have a skirmish mode where you can be a 
 German) . Graphics are the same as the first BIA but sometimes i had the sensation that the graphics 
 are a little bit under the level of Road to hill 30. Firearms are realistic at list the american 
 ones. You don't have a mission with the sniper and that's not good i think. In only one mission 
 you can get your hands on a german sniper rifle after you have killed all ze germans on the map. 
 All in one it's a great historical shooter with high realism. Any fan of WW2 shooters should put 
 his hands on this one! It's a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbsbyte
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms: Earned in Blood is a full game that really feels like an expansion to BIA.30. 
 The graphics, sound, story location and gameplay are all the same as the first game. Many of the 
 original characters make a return including Matt Baker. We are now playing from Joe Hartstock perpesctive 
 during the events of the first game. Though, not everything is the same, designers have made some 
 needed techincal updates to this game. The Good:
  The graphics though not great compared to newer games, they are still eye catching. The amount 
 of careful work the designers did to recreate the actual Normandy battle fields is beyond the call, 
 and the amount of detail really shows in the game maps. A really big update was the Enemy AI. The 
 enemy now will react underfire compared to BIA .30, where they sat in one place until killed. These 
 guys will now retreat to better positions or try to flank if the situation presents itself. They 
 will even counter attack if all else fails. Friendly AI seem to be about the same. Though they 
 did not seem to have the problem of not identifying enemies behind cover as in the first game. 
 The new enemy AI gives the battle more intensity, making it at times very difficul to get through 
 a mission without losing some of your men. Nothing else seems changed in this game. Bad:
  The squads AI seems to be about the same. They still have pathing problems where they will get 
 stuck behind walls, rubble or vehicles. Or take cover infront of cover instead of behind it. I 
 even had one of my tanks accidently push a killed German tank into the way of my squad when they 
 where moving to a new position, they got stuck behind the killed German tank and had to be directed 
 away from it. I also had plenty of problem of them not running in between locations and getting 
 taken out. I still found giving orders to be problematic. I had plenty of problems of the circle 
 getting stock on walls and trees, and not being able to recall the squad if the circle got stuck 
 on a less than ideal location. Also there where some bugs in one level that crashed the game several 
 times to windows. Hopfully they will correct these problems in the next BIA game. Ugly: There is 
 nothing ugly about this game. No serious problems to report. Overall I like the BIA series of games. 
 I believe this is the best WWII series out there do to the attention to detail of actual battle 
 locations, and the story. I just wish they will correct the problematic squad controls with something 
 that gives better control over your squad in combat. Also the AI and pathing of the squad needs 
 some attention. Beyond these gripes, the game as a whole is very well done, with great voice acting, 
 intense battles because of the new German AI, and well done realistic maps. I also enjoy the extra 
 material that is unlocked after a level is finished. It gives the game some replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  I included Earned in Blood in my effusively positive review of Road to Hill 30 since both titles 
 are essentially the exact same game split into two narrative points of view. As I mentioned in 
 that earlier critique, I found the combat scenarios, the simple team management interface, and 
 even the movie-of-the-week-worthy script in both Brothers in Arms scenarios to be stunningly addictive. 
 While playing the games over the course of an extended weekend, I lost track of the passage of 
 time more than with any adventure since I first stumbled rapturously through Half-Lifes Black 
 Mesa complex nearly a decade ago.
  
  One major aesthetic improvement that I really appreciated about EiB is that it shifted the confessional 
 pre-mission narration from a simple, sometimes awkward voiceover to a semi-formal after-action 
 chat between protagonist Red Hartsock and the real-life Army historian Samuel Marshall. The dialogue 
 between the two men was very well-written, laced with the understated emotions of a regular fellow 
 who is just coming to terms with the scope of the extremely long odds against which he prevailed.
 
  
  EiBs level design and gameplay was similar to RtH30s, although I did notice that the German enemies 
 were much more observant and aggressive in the more recent title. The Find, Fix, and Finish ploy 
 still worked like a charm and was a joy to enact, particularly when a well-executed flanking maneuver 
 sent an entire group of targets running in a panic just as my squad and I dropped every single 
 of them in their own tracks. Enemy tanks were much more of an obstacle in EiB, particularly in 
 the viciously difficult final levels as well as Reds own version of The Battle of Bloody Gulch.
 
  
  Like its predecessor, Earned in Blood represents the near-perfect marriage of the wary team choreography 
 found in tactical shooters and the devil-may-care havoc wreaked by Quake-bred supersoldiers. Incidentally, 
 I played Pariah immediately after my hardcore Brothers in Arms binge and  true to that titles 
 connotation  I found myself feeling incredibly lonely each time I had to dive into battle without 
 a little help from my squadmates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 10, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  I had played the previous brothers in arms game briefly on the playstation and didnt really think 
 much of it, but I decided to get Earned in Blood on the PC for 10 bucks. This game blew me away 
 at how good it actually is. I havent played any game recently that was as challenging as some of 
 the missions in this game. It was really intense and i found myself hoping that I would survive 
 to the next checkpoint to save. Some might fight a checkpoint system to be a bad idea but I thought 
 it added alot to the challenge of the game so you cant just constantly be quicksaving. The game 
 is basically a World War 2 tactical shooter where you have to command your assault team, fire team, 
 or tank to position then to open fire on the enemy hoping to supress them, then you or your assault 
 team can flank the enimies position and kill them. The gameplay is fun and addicting but some of 
 the missions are so stressful to me I had to stop after only doing one or two. One thing that is 
 a minus for the game is the hit detection, you can fire right at a germans head with a rifle and 
 not take them down in one shot, sometimes its hard to tell if your shots are actually hitting the 
 target. One thing you can do in the game is after you get killed 3 times you can restart at your 
 checkpoint at full health, and all your guys are brought back to life which makes parts a bit easier. 
 The graphics on this game are nothing special but they are quite good in most respects. The sound 
 effects are great from the weapons and explosions to the wind blowing through the area. The voice 
 acting is all pretty good as well. The story could of been done better but they did take a unique 
 aproach to how it was done by having your character talking about what happend and you playing 
 through it like it was a memory. Overall I would recommend this game but if you want a game that 
 is easy to play and relax while you are playing, not this game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaohsiungliu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 30, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Excellent and true WW II story, you can play either an American or a German in skirmish 
 mode-solo or cooperative. More weapons to use and you can even command a tank. This is what you 
 can do comparing to COD series
  
  Graphics: Much more detail than COD on soliders' face and clothing and recreate authentic WW II 
 buildings
  
  Sound: Very realistic, from bullets to grenades explosive, rain drop to your helment. Each weapon 
 has real sound.
  
  Value: You can unlock some extra information once you completed single player mode, and great fun 
 for multiplayer mode and can use some cheats as well.
  
  Tilt: If you like FPS game and history about WW II, go and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mivanc
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 30, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  I greatly enjoyed Road to Hill 30 when i played it a year or so ago.
  I finally got my hands on this sequel and so far through 3 levels, I'm satisfied with what I've 
 seen.
  
  I admit that like any other game, there are flaws to it. But in the end its just plain fun to play. 
 Soldiers don't exactly take cover properly all the time, but who cares. They are not robots. Like 
 the real soldiers in the war, I'm sure that there were incidents where soldiers didn't exactly 
 follow order to the letter.
  
  Be that as it may, so far its been a challenge. i'm stuck in the 3rd mission and having a tough 
 time getting through since there are a lot of open spaces to rush through. Enemies seem to be invincible 
 at times, but mostly they aren't. I'm sure I'll get through it eventually. Looking forward to the 
 next one, Brothers in Arms Hell's Highway due out Q1 2007. If they can improve on this, I can't 
 see why it can't be good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Well... if it wasnt on the xbox & ps2, i'd recommend it be simply an expansion to RTH 30. But since 
 it was, it's worth about 25-30.00 if you dont have RTH 30 and 10-15 if you have it. I am downing 
 the age of the game because it doesnt read all the mouse buttons (on a 5-button mouse) like most 
 games nowdays, so controlling team members can be a pain sometimes. Overall the game is great and 
 deserves a superb reccomendation but since it's only a step up from RTH 30, I am marking it at 
 a bit of a dissapoitment, the main thing that dissapoints me is that I was told this would be a 
 more urban-fighting based game and there are only several urban areas in which you fight at times. 
 I do reccomend this game with great enthusiasm but, as many games, it could have been alot better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartass21
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 12, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in arms Earned in Blood is the second BIA game .In Earned in Blood you are not Matt Baker 
 anymore .You are Joe Hartstock (or Red) ,one of Matt Bakers squad members . 
  In BIA EIB you still are in charge of squads and you can easily command your squad members . There 
 are three types of squads :fire team ,assault team ,tank squad .
  Fire team . Your fire team is best used for suppression of the enemy .
  Assault Team . Your assault 
 team is best used for flanking the enemy .
  You should you these teams whiselly . Suppress with a team flank with another .
  Tank squad . 
 Your tank squad can kill any enemy with the cannon and two machine guns (one can be used by you) 
 ,but is vulnerable to other tanks and panzerfoust 
  Ubi soft still wants BIA to be a realistic WW II game so it keeps its gun poor accuracy ,and hard 
 AI . 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 8, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  There isn't a great deal much to say after my full review on Road To Hill 30
  
  Earned in Blood, perhaps is slightly better and show small signs of improvement in gameplay, but 
 its still not BF2 game. Its not hit the charts because of the low level of graphic quality.
  
  The add-on in my case was to earn extra income for the company to accomplish the ferocious 
 Brothers In Arms Hells Highway
  
  This should really hit the charts, and i think this is what we all expect
  
  Nevertheless, 
 perhaps save your money, if you played Road to hill 30, i dont really recommed this.
  
  My small review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigges
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 6, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the first Brothers in Arms youll love this. Dont make any mistake, it is pretty 
 much an expansion to the original in that the graphics are about the same and the game experience 
 is exactly the same. Having said that it isnt necessarily a bad thing. The original game brought 
 a new tilt to the World War II FPS genera inspiring the use of tactics with the use of cover and 
 squads over the usual run and good style other games in this area. 
  Brothers in Arms: Earned in Blood is really all about telling a compelling story and it does an 
 excellent job. As you play through from the beginning there are elements of the story which actually 
 take place at the same time as the original game which allowed the writers to cleverly overlap 
 the two storylines allowing you to witness events from the first game from a different perspective. 
 You even get to know the original character (Matt Baker) from the honest view point of the new 
 main character (Joe Hartstock) which adds a whole new dimension not only to the story of this game, 
 but to that of the last. The story goes beyond that however and beyond hill 30 (which was almost 
 the title of this game) to the gritty final showdown against the Germans.
  The great thing about this game is the emotion. The original did a heart wrenching job of getting 
 you familiar with your comrades before they are KIA effecting the whole attitude and moral of your 
 squad. In the sequel there are moments where things go in slow motion to draw your attention to 
 the importance of a scene and the moments where you inevitable lose some of your closest squad 
 mates are excellently done so that even though it is only a man made up of polygons, you truly 
 do feel a loss. 
  Overall if you are looking for a good single player game with a great story to tell, this is the 
 game for you. It lacks only in that it didnt do anything particularly different from its processor 
 and that the multiplayer doesnt have anything unique that would make you keep playing, but for 
 that it makes up with a solid story line that pulls at your heart strings while immersing you in 
 the mayhem of the Second World War. At ease solider!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerard_6031
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 3, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  I didn't play Brothers in Arms Road to hill 30, so I can't make a decission If Earned in Blood 
 is better or worse. But I can tell you this. 
  
  BiA: EiB is a one of a kind. It's graphics are great. The gameplay is excellent. And it has a good 
 storyline. Don't think this game is like CoD, because it isn't. The graphics are better than CoD2, 
 the gameplay is different. 
  
  In BiA you have the lead of the squads, a fire team and a assault team. 
  The trick is to kill 
 the enemy and don't getting killed by them. Don't try to take the enemy down by you're self, cause 
 you will get killed. The AI of this game is so good developed. The enemy is just as smart as you 
 are. If they can retreat then they will do that. In BiA you're health is based on the realism. 
 So if you expose you're self to the enemy, then they will kill you with a few bullets. SO WATCH 
 OUT !!!
  
  If you love WWII games and strategy games, then buy this game. Try you're luck out. You'll see 
 it isn't that easy as you think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss33
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 23, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  
  i think brothers in arms erned in blood is a very good first person shooter and very difficult 
 one. combat system is a very important in tis game because you cant complete the mission without 
 your squads you need to use them to reach the target take down the enemes and if you lose them 
 your in trouble because you lost a big help. in mission you must use a good tactics and make good 
 use of yuor squads .graphic is very good and i think perfect scenes designed very good and beautiful 
 with high details. mission objectives are not tedious and you wont get tired of playing them. at 
 the end i must say this game is a good choice for pro guys and fps fans but i think it brings nothing 
 new and its same like a road to hill with just new objectives but at least you can experience the 
 strategy with fps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: choppergh
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Find-Fix-Flank-Finish, that's where this game is all about. While we've heard 'tactical squad based'-combat 
 time and time again, BIA: EIB knows to deliver it at first glance. This game is a bit overrated 
 by the press. If someone said he would give it a 6.5, I would agree. Why?
  
  First of all, if you have ever played a WW2 themed shooter ( ever seen a WW2 themed RPG? ) , this 
 game looks familiar. It may be a bit more horrible looking than other WW2 games, it may be a bit 
 grainy and blurry, but the graphics do the job, although they don't stand out at any point, except 
 for the explosions. Then again, I'm glad my older PC can handle the game if I tune down some things, 
 so for me, I wouldn't see better graphics anyway. But that aside, the graphics are quite average.
 
  
  It also sounds like a WW2 shooter. Your teammates usually say real useful things that make sense. 
 The problem is that those sentences are recycled too much, so it doesn't sound too natural. It 
 also seems like the German voices are done by one person, and the Germans have just 5 lines or 
 something. Aside from the voice acting ( Joe's voice acting ain't too great ) , the guns sound authentic. 
 What you will sometimes notice is the silence between shootouts. Indeed, there's no music, except 
 for loading and menu screens. Too bad that sound is heavily bogged down during those load screens. 
 It's not fluent and that's a shame. Gearbox should've looked at Rome Total War, where i didn't 
 notice any audio glitches during load screens.
  
  The levels are more open than others in it's genre, but that doesn't mean the path isn't scripted. 
 Logs and weird barricades block your path, pushing you in one direction. Fortunately, you can take 
 the enemy out in multiple ways and it feels good to supress an enemy and sneak to their flank, 
 where they are exposed. The enemy acts agrresively, but for some reason, they always spot me first. 
 It's very good to see that mistakes from your side make sense, because it's not a run and gun shooter. 
 If you run in an open field, your squadmates die. Without squadmates, you'll die. Period.
  
  The enemy is a major threat instead of cannon fodder for your gun. Your squadmates, on the 
 other hand, aren't a real threat for the Wehrmacht. They take cover in open field if you tell them 
 to take cover behind a fence, they don't always shoot at the enemy when you order them to, they 
 don't retreat behind coverage if they are being shot in the arm and finishes aren't that deadly 
 and need some assistence. Assistence, that's a good word. You always need to assist your squad. 
 You need to tell them EXACTLY where to go, only to find out they take cover at wrong positions. 
 The AI is basic and your soldiers only duck for enemy fire, cover each other and stand with their 
 noses to the enemy. The AI ain't as bad as you would think it is ( according to my discription 
 ) , but the game is sometimes harder than nesscary because your squad has a bit unstable AI.
  
  The command interface works fine for the most part, and Gearbox/Ubi really wanted to make a 
 realistic shooter. This results in poor accuracy of weapons and tough enemies. That's really great 
 news when you're tired of trenched, scripted WW2 shooters ( Medal of Honor, cough, Call of Duty, 
 cough ) but a better squad was welcome. It's a miracle Europe's actually liberated by those soldiers, 
 but then again, I'm maybe a bit too negative on the AI. 
  
  Though the game never takes epic proportions, it isn't totally broken. I've only been online for 
 five seconds or so ( and played really, really bad ) , but I saw online tactical combat. Hmmm... 
 I'd rather prefer hectic shootouts, but I haven't played online enough to enjoy it.
  
  The concept for the game keeps it safe from the mentioned 6.5, but it could have been better. That 
 raises the question: is this ported FROM Xbox rather than porting it down from PC TO Xbox? Because 
 it really feels, looks and sounds like an Xbox game. The graphics, while stunning for the Xbox, 
 aren't stunning for PC merits. Same can be said for the default keyboard layout ( though you'll 
 get used to it and everything's ajustable ) . 
  
  Maybe I'm missing a large info part from Road to Hill 30 that makes me want to go on, but I'm not 
 impressed by this title. It's not bad, but it doesn't exel. It wasn't worth the 9.3 I saw in a 
 trusted magazine... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juventus_fc97
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay in Brothers in Arms: Earned in Blood is definately it's strongest point. 
 It's nothing too different than the original BIA , but that's not necessarily a bad thing. Just 
 as in the original game, it does a good job of forcing you to make tactical decisions, rather than 
 gung-ho running and gunning. This feature is sometimes rather frustrating however, due to the fact 
 that your team members often do absurdly ignorant things, ie. stand in the open and shoot, take 
 cover on the wrong side of a wall or other object, and in some cases not take clear and easy shots 
 at enemy soldiers. The frustrating thing about this is when your trying desperately to outmanuver 
 that German squad across the way and your team members decide to stand up from cover, run to a 
 place of their choosing, and get killed, effectively ruining your plans. Aside from this issue 
 the gameplay is pretty good, and often challenging and rewarding, although you really won't find 
 any novelty when compared to the first game. As for the multi-player portion of this game? Very 
 good. Although still plauged by the same AI faults as the single-player mode, it manages to be 
 a stand out part of the game. It's quite fun to play with a friend or two in the new cooperative 
 modes introduced in BIA: EIB. 
  
  Graphics: Well, let's just say, I wish I could play this game with my eyes closed. I see little 
 to no improvement from the first game. The textures are exceptionally awful, even at full settings. 
 As if that's not enough, the weapons are horribly detailed. Gearbox has made such weapons as the 
 BAR, M1 Garand, and STG 44 look like toy pistols when seen from first-person. Grenade throw animations 
 are very strange as well. I often couldn't tell if I had thrown a grenade, as there is no arm that 
 moves across the screen, or even a hand to pull the pin. Grenades just seemingly eject from your 
 chest. All in all the graphical presentation in this game is severly lacking. It looks very rough 
 and outdated. The only good thing I can say about them is that human faces look fairly realistic. 
 
  
  Sound: Average at best. Some of the gunfire sounds phony, but the voice acting is overall good. 
 A little bland in some of the cutscenes, but in game it is much better. Nothing really stand out 
 to report on the sound. 
  
  Value: A bit overpriced in my opinion. Worth it maybe for multi-player, but otherwise, might as 
 well wait for a big price drop. 
  
  Conclusion: In the end, I walked away from BIA: EIB feeling as though I had just played the original 
 game again. The only real sense of enjoyment I got from this game was in the greatly improved multi-player 
 mode. Unless you've got nothing better to do, or maybe just want to see how the story ends, don't 
 spend your valuable cash or time on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  Being able to command your squad is superb. I really liked that part of the game. You get an overview 
 of an area then you can plan your strategy to eliminate the enemy. Using suppressive fire, and 
 flanking them are just some ways to overcome the situation at hand. The cross hairs interacting 
 with the commands of your squad can get quite confusing, and irritating. I like the authenticity 
 that this game holds. The detail is good, but not as good as COD. This game will need to be played 
 more I think in order to fall in love with it. You can create custom missions which is cool. Having 
 real people in the game makes it all more touching. Meaning that they actually took the time to 
 do their history, and give tribute to those who fought. I like this game and would recommend this 
 to anyone who like FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Brothers In Arms: Earned in Blood isn't a bad game at all. It adds up to be a strategic FPS that 
 has one of the best storylines around. The gameplay is really challenging. You get two teams, an 
 attack team and a fire team. They will help like the squads in Halo, Rainbow Six, and Star Wars: Republic 
 Commando. However, the catch is u can't just let them do the fighting. As good as of a squad as they 
 are, they're no good when dead. U have to help them as well (that's mostly how it is in every other 
 game too) . Also, going through all of it shows to be well intended. The story for it is amazing 
 and getting through gameplay to look at cutscenes is sometimes great to see.
  The graphics aren't what we call top-notch but they fit the bill. And the gore lives up to the graphics 
 well. The sound is well planned out. Like any WWII game the sound lives up to sounds of WWII. The 
 value is pretty normal but it doesn't feel worth $50. Overall, Ubisoft and Gearbox worked well on 
 this. It should be an 8 or 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchitha
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  Well, First i thought this was a crappy game but then i realized this game is good coz it offers 
 First person shooting plus strategy as well. I can compare this with previous one; coz i haven't 
 played that but i don't think that there could be much of a difference. I really liked the top 
 view which allows you to plan your attack and all that. But the environment is not so friendly, 
 as in you can't even jump over certain small walls and it restricts you alot so you have to go 
 according to what they have planned for you to do.
  
  Considering other factors such as graphics they have done a quite a good job. Graphics wise i give 
 10 marks out of 10. The rest is also good. There isn't much of a story although they try to build 
 one up. The ending is bit disappointing, i expected something more to happen.
  
  Overall not bad I enjoyed it in a different way but Im satisfied with that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HKFlash
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  Brothers In Arms: Earned In Blood is the sequel (if you can call that in terms of plot) to Brothers 
 In Arms: Road to Hill 30. However, this time, you play as Joe "Red" Hartsock unlike the first title 
 where you played with Matt Baker. This is a world war 2 tactical shooter and the scenario is.... yeah, 
 you guessed right, Normandy. That's why BIA: EIB is not exactly a sequel but rather an expansion 
 of Road to Hill 30.
  
  But let's get to the review. The gamplay as well as graphics have maintained from the first game. 
 So except the level of detail of games like Unreal Tournment (2003) , in other words, nothing special. 
 The game models are good but textures, especially the scenario ones are sometimes poor. The special 
 effects on the other hand are quite good, with realistic explosions that throw dust into the air 
 along with some good smoke and other details.
  
  The gameplay , as said before, maintains. You have almost the same weapons, you still command 2 
 squads at the maximum and sometimes a tank. The key is maintained: supress then flank. You order 
 one of your squads to supress the enemy and then you alone, the other squad or both flank the enemy 
 and eliminate them. The strange thing is that you have infinite ammo which shouldnt happen in a 
 game such a realistic perpective of war. You have limited ammo but you can get more from your teammates, 
 so you have ilimited ammo, basically. In BIA: EIB to progress on the terrain one element is very 
 important: cover. Like in every decent FPS cover is essential as you move from cover to cover and 
 flank the enemy. By the way theres melee combat in the game as you can hit your opponent with the 
 stock of the weapon you carry. (You can only carry two weapons)
  
  So the gameplay is pretty simple? Yes it is. The scenarios are all French countryside and some 
 villages and towns so theres some open combat and some close quarters combat which definely freshes 
 the gameplay. The exception is that theres a high accuracy in the position and moddeling of the 
 buildinds so you can expect to have scenarios like the ones present during the actual , real life 
 war.
  
  The plot is pretty simple as well. You and your fellow paratroopers are dropped behind enemy lines 
 during D-Day. Your missions primarily consist in distrupting and even preveting German counter-attacks 
 on the landing beaches. For that porpuses you will have to capture towns and sometimes fight on 
 the field to destroy key german positions like 88 mm Flak cannons which are deadly to tanks and 
 aircraft. The story is narrated on the beginning of the mission and then you assume the primarily 
 role always as a squad leader (The story is narrated by Red, the soldier you control directly) . 
 Its kinda like a flashback.
  
  Theres multiplayer but I never tried it because I dont have an internet connection. Theres a skirmish 
 mode though where you can fight against the AI in single player missions.
  
  Finally theres an Extra section where you can learn about the "Making of" Brothers In Arms: Earned 
 In Blood. You unlock the stuff as you complete the levels.
  
  So although it doesnt had anything new its definaly a good game. But its not for everyone more 
 for World War 2 lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 13, 2006 2:25 am PT
Review:  Mmm... let see, From the start too much lesons man it is not bloody computer game confession... this 
 must be game it self, and by the time you will learn all curves.. may be even from secnd try. However, 
 game itself not bad, but same time not that much immpresive as some people says that.
  
  Tactical.. if you can see the backfront of your enemie with high tech video rotation stuff, how 
 it comes tactical? TActical is that you think about yourself and attemting to see that side of 
 enemy with your own tactics, not with developers hints. So, lets move on, graphic in the game: 
 Man it is the nest gen. game age.... couldn't the dev. s consider that fact and work on both sound 
 and graphic system properly?
  
  AI is too much immpresive, but not because of high intelegence factor. it is cos, you can't see 
 anything in game with that poor graphic... thats why it is look like so tough. But there some thoughness 
 in game control, which you can learn at the game start :) ) )
  
  Well it is really poor game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 3, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  Well another World War 2 game,
  
  The Good, about the game is it gave me a feeling that Call Of Duty 2 failed to give me, the ability 
 to command a team and the use of tactics and my brain. The game's difficulty is well leveled not 
 too difficult and not too hard, it gives you a story and gives you something to look forward to, 
 which is good. The objectives provided by the game is good.
  
  The Bad, would be that when commanding your team although the AI is pretty good in the game their 
 are a few glinches in your team mates beheviours (like they won; t take cover on their own when 
 a Tank is firing at them) , 
  
  The game overall is pretty good, and gives you another view at the 2nd World war 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeeeeee9
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 28, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  this game come by great (ubi) -i like this company- but im sorry the game faild because the shoting 
 system is corrpted and graphic not like other game and you it come from past, and not only that 
 the a. i bad tatical and you have only one basic tactical and you didn't feel like you are in war 
 no but only in field with 4 of foe or soldier must kill them not like cod2 or cod or mohh, no you 
 feel you are only playing network game.
  the good on this game and i repect this game for, the story . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrjcobra
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 22, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  AI is BAD your soldiers stand out in the open and just ignore you or take cover incorrectly. when 
 I order them to take cover behind a wall I want them to go exactly where I tell them not step out 
 5 seconds later or my favorite take cover behind the object on the wrong side!! enemy AI cheats 
 they have some sort of radar that makes them detect you when there is no way a real person could 
 have seen you. enemy tanks really make this fact clear. enemy infantry shoot and kill you when 
 all you have exposed is a fraction of an inch of your character visible but when you try to do 
 it to them they have some sort of shield that deflects your shots lower than where you were aiming. 
 stupid jiggly aiming sight is still there. poor effort just to make a bunch of money. extras pretty 
 much repeat everything that was said in the original game. I'm starting to doubt that the character 
 in the game actually existed in real life (save for the ones they have real photos of) .
  
  Once again a developer blows it for the sake of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMucks
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 28, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  This game could have been a blockbuster, but instead, Gearbox/Ubisoft decided to release a VERY 
 unpolished, sloppily coded game. When are these game developers going to understand that they are 
 shooting themselves in the foot (financially) by releasing games that are so-so, when they could 
 be truly outstanding. They don't get it. They would rather sell 50,000 copies today than 500,000 
 copies 4 months from today, after spending a little more time and cost fixing things like:
  
  1) Your character getting stuck on a twig of a branch in the middle of a fire fight, or on 
 a 2 wide end post of a fence (forcing you to replay the whole level) .
  2) Not being able to jump over a knee high wall = RIDICULOUS.
  3) Extremely linear maps / paths 
 for missions -- possibly the most limited route choices I've ever played in a fps/role game. DEUS 
 EX's freedom of movement makes this game seem like a lab mouse maze. 4) No option to save progress 
 at players discretion.
  5) Erratic AI -- sometimes good, sometimes Artificial Idiocy -- path finding for characters is 
 outright poor -- I had to tell them exactly how to get from A to B when there were more than about 
 2 turns to make and then repeatedly hit the waypoint marker to get them to move your asses (to 
 take a line from the game) -- they weren't moving their asses at all, causing not game play fun, 
 but game play irritation; this is INEXCUSABLE, especially for a game in which one of the main features 
 is commanding a squad. Often, when they got to the designated spot (behind cover) one or two idiots 
 would stand in the open and take bullets without moving at all to take cover, until they died needlessly 
 (what the?!!! -- AI doesn't get much dumber than that folks) and it ruins your attack plan, sometimes 
 forcing you to replay the mission -- remember?... you can't save your progress, see number 4 above.
 
  6) Taking damage (a lot of it) because it takes 4 to 8 bullets (sometimes at point blank range) 
 in the chest and head to kill enemies -- in fact they don't even flinch while being riddled with 
 bullets, they just keep shooting you back. Umm, I've never been shot, or shot any human, but I'm 
 pretty sure that if I were to flank an enemy and start shooting them with an automatic weapon before 
 they saw it coming, they would be incapable of shooting back. I wonder if the developers have any 
 experience with real firearms (yes, I do) . I could go on and on with this one. The real irony? 
 The frustration is magnified because of the enormous potential that obviously exists. The game 
 FEELS fun, looks very good, sounds great, has a great concept for gameplay (though more variety 
 is needed than the repetitive Find, Fix, Flank, and Finish tactic) in combining fps with squad 
 command. However, recurring issues such as the ones mentioned above cause such distraction, that 
 fun too often is replaced with irritation.
  Question: does anyone care about quality anymore? The reason online gaming is getting so big is 
 partly due to the fact that PC game quality has deteriorated. This is disappointing, but it is 
 easier to stand out in a crowd -- if anyone is smart enough to recognize the opportunity. The problem 
 with Brothers in Arms, Earned in Blood is that game play has been severely compromised. The developers 
 did not finish the game, they said good enough to fool most of them, on to the next one . Shame 
 on you GAMESPOT editors/reviewers for giving this game 8.7 -- get serious, you ought to know better. 
 If this game is an 8.7, then the original Unreal Tournament is a 12.0 -- a game that came out in 
 1999 (yeah, I know, your rating scale only goes up to 10) . Where have our standards gone? Too bad; 
 it's because so many are so easily impressed that game quality is sinking lower and lower. With 
 scores like 8.7 for this type of unpolished product, why would any developer go to the nth degree 
 to produce a truly outstanding game? (BTW -- I'm 40 years old, been PC gaming since about 1996, 
 and work as a business analyst) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burrek
Rating: 5.9
Date: Feb 7, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This is almost exaclty the same game as Road to Hill 30.
  
  The graphics have not improved much and they are really starting to show their age.
  
  The 
 sound and voice acting are very nice. Yet I feel like the characters lack spirit or at least do 
 not get enaugh exposure for you to care about them. I never felt sorry when I lost a man, I would 
 be annoyed since I'd probably have to restart if I lost a few, but never sorry.
  
  Even though I loved Band of Brothers and Saving Private Ryan I do not like the story in this game, 
 ... there is no story... more like disjointed diaolog to put interludes between the action.
  
  The action itself is good... but once you do supress, flank, kill for the 100th time it does 
 get boring. The game does not deviate from the supress and flank formula and it really gets stale 
 after playing through Road to HIll 30 and Earned in Blood. Not to mention it's really annoying 
 to baby sit the AI when they have to move across terrain or if they move to the *wrong* side of 
 cover.
  
  Although the crazy action in Call of Duty is far from historical Brothers in Arms does not have 
 the same variety or intensity.
  
  As a tactical shooter it also disapoints due to the limited comamnd options ( 2 squads that you 
 can give move, supress, or attack commands, a total of 6 command options :P) .
  
  I would reccomnd this game to people who loved the original or are not good at shooter games, yet 
 would like to be part of the action.
  
  It fails at being a shooter and it fails at being a tactical game due to the simplistic gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjolnir334
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  When I played Brothers in Arms Road to Hill 30 I enjoyed it but it just felt there was something 
 lacking. Just a spark that seperates the great games from the amazing games. What ever was missing 
 they've certainly added it. Earned in Blood is by far one of the most enjoyable games I've ever 
 played. 
  
  There are many World War Two shooters out there but Brothers in Arms there are a few things that 
 seperates it from the other ones. The first and most obvious is the squad tactics. In most WWII 
 shooters you are a one man army. Even if there are other soldiers around you, your the one who 
 is always rushing the machine gun. In Brothers in Arms you have to use your squad using simple, 
 yet deep controls, to flank the enemy. The other thing that is fairly different from other World 
 War Two games is the story. Many don't have one and just have you fighting through battles. In 
 Brothers in Arms each member of your squad has a certain personality. As you progress through the 
 game you grow more attached to your men. This makes it much more emotional if one of your men dies. 
 Although the first Brothers in Arms had a similar story I became much more attached to the characters 
 in the game. Another thing I had a problem with in the last game was the aiming. Your aiming is 
 realistic in that you have to go into the iron sights to aim. It's also realistic because your 
 breathing effects how much the gun moves. It always seemed impossible to shoot anything in the 
 first game. Perhaps it was because I played the first one without a mouse and keyboard, but I felt 
 that the aiming was much more tighter in Earned in Blood and I could generally shoot better. In 
 the first game many people complained that it got too repetitive, because all you did was suppress 
 and then flank. You still primarily do this but it feels as if there is many more risks you have 
 to take. Like running across open ground that is covered by a machine gun. This keeps the action 
 much more intense. Another improvement they've added is a skirmish mode to the game. There are 
 several missions in which you can play by yourself or with a buddy. 
  
  There were two main problems I had with the game. The first is the graphics. They just can't stand 
 up to PC giants like Quake 4 or F. E. A. R. I also found a few graphical glitches. One time in particular 
 I found a black stripe shooting out from a soldiers face to the side of the screen in a cut scene. 
 Another problem I had with the game is the sound. Although the sound effects for things like artillery 
 and voice acting is amazing it was the sound of the guns that got me. Many of them sound very weak, 
 particularly the MG42. 
  
  Brothers in Arms Earned in Blood is an amazing game. I've never been so emotionally attached to 
 characters in a game. It is an unbelievable differenced that everyone should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 16, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  In addition to the tactical improvements and the extra modes, Earned in Blood has prettied up the 
 world of Brothers in Arms. Most of the changes are fairly subtle, but their cumulative effect makes 
 Earned in Blood a slightly better looking game. The textures are the most noticeably improved visual 
 feature. Where the first game had rather muddy textures, the new game has increased the definition 
 and detail to the point that you'll stop being distracted by cloudy roads and walls. If you have 
 a good enough machine, you can benefit from an improved lighting system as well. Again, the improvements 
 aren't really obvious, but they do help to add another layer of believability to the game world. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20648505842410216584325484843111-sonnycX
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 13, 2006 11:59 pm PT
Review:  When Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30 was released it was lauded for its nearly seamless integration 
 between first-person-shooter control and squad command mechanics. Brothers in Arms focused on the 
 tactical aspects of small-squad infantry combat.
  Seven months after BIA: Road to Hill 30 was released, BIA: Earned in blood appeared on the market 
 providing a somewhat similar experience to Road to Hill 30 but with some improvements.
  
  The interface of the game is the same like in Road to Hill 30. The graphics and the sound are as 
 impressive as in the first game, also some improvements to the artificial intelligence have been 
 made, for example, if the enemy see's you trying to flank them it's more likely that they will 
 retreat rather than just stand there and wait for you to shoot them; on higher difficulty levels 
 they may even try to flank you. All these make Earned in Blood more difficult to play, but don't 
 worry..... flanking maneuvers are still possible at almost every point in the game.
  
  The levels are almost the same size but you sometimes run into contrived obstacles that keeps you 
 from maneuvering as freely as you wanted.
  I haven't played the multiplayer yet so i don't know what to say about that.
  
  Tough some 
 improvements have been made like the AI, it's hard to say that i liked Earned in Blood. Yes it 
 delivers a similar experience to the first game but i would still recommend you to get Road to 
 Hill 30 instead of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViktorHannawald
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 10, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in arms: Earned in blood is one of the greatest games last year.
  It is a really good game and it's gameplay is the best war gameplay I have seen so far.
  It is 
 really good that you must flank your enemies and really work with strategy to finish this game.
 
  
  The graphics is really good but I still think that there it could be better and the sound is also 
 really good but the same there... there is room for improvement.
  
  This game is a must to have if you like WWII games or just like First Person Shooters...
  
 
  Brothers in Arms: Earned in Blood is 'Highly Addictive' and you will sit in front of your computer 
 for hours the first week you have this game... I promise...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixR4NCID
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I've been looking for something like Brothers In Arms: Earned in Blood.
  
  I've only played the demo of the first one and was mildly impressed. On a whim, I decided to pick 
 up EIB and from the opening moments I am completely floored.
  
  I'll start with the graphics: Nothing revolutionary, but they are very well done and serve their 
 purpose. The game runs very well in 1024x768 on my system.
  
  The sound is phenominal right down to your boots crunching on the ground. It adds a realism that 
 picks up where the graphics leave off.
  
  Gameplay: Very nice. I've never been a big fan of RTS and the little bit of that genre used in 
 the game is minimal and easy to wrap your head around. I find myself not using the overhead view 
 much. It doesn't add to the realism the game is trying for. I love the fact that the AI is hard 
 to see and, when you can get them in your sights, hard to hit. Using the overhead view feels like 
 cheating to me.
  
  I also enjoy the fact that my squad flat out refuses to move where I want them to if they will 
 be in any grave danger. Nice touch.
  
  The game does get frustrating when you reach a checkpoint with very little health but stops you 
 from putting your fist through your monitor by giving a few chances to move forward at whatever 
 your health level is. If you fail one too many times, the game gives you your health back so you 
 can finish the mission.
  
  Sure, it isn't "real" and the soldiers in WWII didn't get extra health if they failed three or 
 four time but, hey, it's a freakin' video game!
  
  I haven't ventured into a multiplayer server as of yet. As well, I haven't finished singleplayer 
 either thanks to a hectic work and home life but I will. 
  
  And I will enjoy every single minute of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoopdebejesus
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand why it takes six head shots to kill a Nazi! It sucks the realism out of the 
 game when you can take a half dozen hits and the same goes for the enemy. That's my major gripe 
 in an otherwise very good game. I could also gripe about all the gates and doors you can't open, 
 and short walls you can't climb over, but I've played so many games now that allow all that, so 
 I'm spoiled. Although the AI is improved, your guys still do stupid things that get them shot, 
 (like go where you told them, but don't completely hide behind cover) and enemy is easy outsmarted. 
 Sometimes they seem to know you're flanking them when they have no realistic way of knowing this 
 (they can't see you) . For the money Call Of Duty is a better game, but this one has the cool concept 
 of controlling your men. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksyme99
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 1:00 pm PT
Review:  The original Brothers in Arms was great. It was very emotional and had a very unique squad control 
 system, which gave you a lot of freedom to complete missions in a variety of ways. The graphics 
 were top notch, the sounds were immersive and overall it was an excellent game.
  
  This game (Brothers in Arms 2 really) feels more like an expansion pack than a sequel. It has all 
 the merits of the above, but it doesn't really improve in any area vastly. Sure there are little 
 changes here and there that make it altogether a bit easier and more enjoyable, but it feels far 
 too like the original. The storyline is too similar (the same... in theory) and the locations seem 
 all too familiar.
  
  In the end, I liked this game overall... but felt that a sequel should expand on the original really, 
 and not rehash the same stuff, however good it was. Hopefully if they make another one, they will 
 introduce new characters and take us to new locations... to refresh the series so it doesn't get 
 bogged down in the same old stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxx_2T
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 29, 2005 11:23 pm PT
Review:  The game doubles the challenge, with furious action, requiring both basic first person shooter 
 skills, and deployment skills. Commands are not immediately followed but the squads eventually 
 carry out orders. Weapons however are not as immediate as in other combat games. 
  
  There's an emotional factor here. You do get concerned about the health of your comrades, disappointed 
 when you lose men in battle. Even with heavy cover fire, assault teams suffer when attacking a 
 bunker. I would often attack solo, falling back to multi-player mentality. I also used the anti-tank 
 weapon in the end to take out enemy defenders. 
  
  Generally, the game delivered. And I only buy games that I've researched in order to avoid disappointment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt_So_and_So
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 5:23 am PT
Review:  First of all, let me clarify this- i am not biased to any of the systems. I own a gamecube, xbox, 
 and 4 pcs and have rented a PS2. The xbox 360 is out of my reach for now but I will soon own it. 
 I have tried Earned in Blood on every system, and, frankly, the PC version runs VERY smooth. In 
 fact, the x-box version (and i have played this on three different xboxes) sometimes skipped reading 
 the disc during a cutscene or in the middle of a game so there was no sound. The PC- never happened. 
 The graphics are smoother, the multiplayer less jerky, and co-op: well, it's co-op, therefore freakin' 
 sweet. The only problem is the final product was somewhat rushed, so don't expect the graphics 
 to be much prettier. Although the graphics are still great, it's using the dated Unreal 2.5 engine, 
 and Epic is already using Unreal 3. The AI is much improved, the quality is cinematic, and, by 
 god, if you don't get attached to those soldiers by the end of the game. Hands down, great, and 
 addictive gameplay. This is a "thinking man's" shooter. Give Ubi-Soft another round of applause. 
 2005 was their year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCrapper
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 24, 2005 5:43 am PT
Review:  The intellect of the AI is much better than in "Hill 30". However this one, like the first one, 
 still comes up short.
  A head shot is a head shot and should be a kill. The game is totally asinine when you have the 
 obvious advantage and it still takes a full clip to put one enemy soldier down. Grenade control... 
 well, there is none. It loses it's luster when you work hard to get to the right strategy and you 
 fail because the enemy soldiers have the fortitude of a tank. I also noticed, when you try to position 
 your squad or tank in this case, it does not go where you tell it to. 
  Another slight annoyance is there are cases where there is too much to do between check points. 
 I know this is not uncommon in shooters and this one is no exception. It just becomes more of an 
 issue when the fore mentioned becomes a problem as well. In summary the game becomes more work, 
 than fun after a while.
  I still like it for it's unique format being able to control a fire team, assault team and or a 
 tank. It's just too bad they missed the boat on some of the little things. This series could have 
 been a classic, but it has too many "little things" that are an issue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alhaj
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2005 4:38 am PT
Review:  Excellent Graphic's and Amazing Game-play...
  A slight better than the first game, but they both rock!
  The game in no doubt is better than 
 "Call of Duty" or "Medal of Honor".
  A very addictive game, in a good way of course, a great ww2 game and story.
  
  This game got 
 to be one of the greatest games I ever played... in the War/Action/Storyline category.
  Therefore I recommend this game for everyone who loves ww2 games...
  
  It also got a multi-player, 
 section... witch is absolutely amazing, I love it.
  You can also play in Solo Play ( offline ) , witch also great.
  
  And the best feature in the 
 game is that you can control your squad, unlike other games... other games is different, their 
 strategy is to run and shoot, and that isn't that fun at all... BiA gives you the feeling that 
 you are in control.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fordie40
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:56 am PT
Review:  The game is extremely exasperating. The weapon siting is terrible. Even from 10 feet away, you 
 can't kill he enemy. In some "chapters", you can shoot the enemy soldiers over and over and they 
 don't fall. The game has unrealistic game play. For example, when you run out of grenades, there 
 are none available. There is no where to find any, even though they are exactly what you need. 
 In a real situation, you would have all the equipment you need to go into battle, including grenades. 
 Also, you can't get down onto the ground to shoot the enemy either. Crouching is the best you can 
 do. In a real situation, you'd be sneaking through the grass to kill him, but this is impossible 
 in BIA. I do like the idea of controlling additional characters, though. You can "order and forget", 
 although most of the time, your soldiers get wiped out. As you re-play the episode, you can figure 
 out what you're doing wrong and eventually they may live through it. I got so tired trying to get 
 through one of the "chapters", where the enemy would not die (the warehouse) no matter how many 
 times I'd shoot them, that I broke the disk and threw the whole game in the trash. I have been 
 playing games for years and this is the first one that I destroyed outright. It's not "Far Cry", 
 that's for sure. I bought the PC game based on other's ratings. Bad idea! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortel3
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 11, 2005 1:51 am PT
Review:  FPS games, should not be like this. Simply I am not the kind of person who goes around wanting 
 to play a game where you have to:
  1. Lay suppressive fire
  2. Search for a flank position
  3. Order your other team to take up the flank route
  4. Surprise/Kill 
 enemy ONLY after above steps are taken.
  
  I NEED THE ABILITY TO BLOW $#! T UP!!! Chuck a couple of grenades in there, and there is no need 
 for any flank manoeuvres. Grenades don't take special routes and wait until the enemy is reloading, 
 they just go boom, and the do a damn good job. The general scheme of the game is to take those 
 steps every time an enemy is spotted. Terrible game, but credits for originality and graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShibbyMan666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Road to Hill 30 was a fantastic game with all the addictive and outstanding qualities in the next 
 game Earned In Blood. A good insight into what happened between the storylines and continuing after 
 Road to Hill 30 left us. It is truly a stunning game with superb gameplay and a gripping storyline. 
 Just like the previous Brothers in Arms it is'nt easy too! Which makes for many hours of great 
 gaming. I loved this game and still gripped trying to complete it on difficult without cheating 
 lol! 
  This really is a must have for anyone who enjoyed the first! ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_prince_1981
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 1, 2005 7:55 am PT
Review:  This game's really good! It mixes a Strategy game with a Shooter, which is a golden combination! 
 Maybe it looks a bit to much like the last game (which I didn't play though) but it doesn't make 
 it any less good. The only bad thing about the game is that it begins the become more of the same 
 after you play for a couple of levels. But the fact that your actually are playing in real battlefields 
 and that you are playing real battles, make it a lot more intresting. Also the control of two teams 
 is very cool and gives you the feeling that you are really in charge! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NagaSin
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:29 pm PT
Review:  I did not play the first installment because I was too indulged in a couple of MMORPGs when it 
 came out. After seeing the ad on TV for Earned in Blood, I decided to give it a try.
  
  I guess the low rating I am giving this game is somewhat unfair since my friends did warn me that 
 I will be disappointed if I was expecting a fast-action shooter. But the TV ad was too damned enticing...
 
  
  In the first few missions, it was actually good because of the tactical element of the gameplay; 
 the 4 F's (find, fix, flank, and finish) as the game calls it. Commanding a squad, laying down 
 suppressive fire, flanking the enemy, and killing them. This is well until you discover that mission 
 after mission, it is the same sequence repeated - without exception. How many times can you play 
 the exact routine before you get bored? You can hardly tell the difference between the missions 
 because there is little to no variations in the surroundings and backdrops.
  
  Even though I have only played 7 or 8 missions, I don't see myself finishing this game. That is 
 unusual for me since I always finish the games I have - even if they are only mediocre. Earned 
 in Blood is simply too repetitive and bland to keep me going.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: samsalek
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:43 am PT
Review:  Be careful ... enemy may listen your voice!
  You have to care of your squad, command them rightly to save their life and defeat enemy. Come 
 up with story that narrator will tell you and enjoy the game.
  If you're a fan of this kind of the games, after Call of Duty 2, it's the best game of this series 
 in 2005. It is also include command's missions that you can lead your squad. With great 3D view 
 of your situation you can arrange your tactics to attack enemies. Sometimes you may feel you're 
 playing a strategic game!
  But beside all of this advantages, after passing about 6-7 levels game will become a little boring, 
 I don't know why! maybe because you don't engage to the war actions enough like other games ... 
 but don't be disappointed, it's worth to play ;) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari20091
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:14 am PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms: Earned in Blood is greatly on of the greatest war games to date. The game play 
 and commands are different compared to most games such as Call of Duty 2. In this game you can 
 control you squads. You can have them move in on an enemy flank them, or even provide coverfire 
 while you move in. The AI in both your men and the enemy is incredibly realistic. As you shoot 
 at an enemy they will cower much as people doin real war today. They also work together to try 
 and take you and your men out. The game is incrediby fast paced and you must use alot of different 
 key on the keyboard to control you squads and fight yourself. It takes so getting used too. The 
 graphics in the game are also very good and provide an exciting experience for whoever is playing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyf
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2005 5:31 pm PT
Review:  This game plays just like BiA: Road to Hill 30. There are plenty of bad guys to blow away, but, 
 you also have to use your head to properly position your fire and assault teams in order to gain 
 victory. You cannot simply run head first into an unknown situation and expect to live to tell 
 about it. I love and admire the time and effort Gearbox has devoted to carefully researching the 
 after action reports, aerial reconnaissance, and other historical documents relating to the missions 
 and true characters that are portrayed in the game. They even went on location to Normandy to get 
 a sense of what the combat must have been like and to get the scenery and location details of the 
 game just right. The "Extras" section is a great bonus of historical information and technical 
 details of how the game was created. For someone like me who deeply respects the personal sacrifices 
 of the men and women who fought in WWII, this game is a tribute and a testimony to their character 
 and commitment to answering the call of their country. They truly learned what it means to be "Brothers 
 in Arms". I highly recommend this game and its predecessor and I am eagerly awaiting the next installment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devnull
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:36 am PT
Review:  This game has the perfect blend of action, suspense and tactics. It looks and sounds good. The 
 squad system gives you more possibilities at the same time as you get more engaged when you control 
 a team. Your squad is more personal than the canon fodder that runs besides you in Medal of Honour 
 and Call of Duty.
  The system to order your squad around is really easy to handle and do not get in the way of the 
 action. The ability to order a tank around from time to time and the possibility to ride on it 
 and fire it's external machinegun adds favourable to your gameplay. A nice touch is the ability 
 to jump up on an anemy tank and drop a grenade down the hatch.
  Any room for improvement? Well of course, gameplay in other theaters than D-day France would be 
 nice. It also would add if the germans or members of your squad gave up and surrendered in some 
 situations, it might even give you the chance to go out and liberate your mates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Find them, fix them, flank them and finish them, this novel approach to the squad based World War 
 2 shooter debuted early this year in, Brothers in Arms: the Road to Hill 30. Now the formula returns 
 for an encore in, Brothers in Arms Earned in Blood; however it is just not as good as it was the 
 first time. This game represents a classic case of full priced expansion pack syndrome. While 
 the game does offer a very nice story and some strong characterization the rest of the game suffers 
 from being pushed out the door a bit too quickly. The fact that the game was released merely months 
 after the original makes it a tough sell at 50 dollars when the game reeks of been there done that. 
 
  
  One area of Brothers in Arms where there isnt too much to complain about is the games story and 
 characterization. Now Instead of focusing on Matthew Baker, the story shifts to the character known 
 as Red after the hue of his hair. It tells of what he was doing in the weeks after D-Day in battles 
 around Carentan, Hill 30 and ending up at the fortress of Saint Saveur. Baker and others return 
 though and the realism of the soldiers idle conversation and Reds narration make for two of the 
 strongest points of this game. You really come to care about your soldiers as more than mere pawns 
 on a chess board. Every time I lost a man, even knowing that I could revive them, I felt some pang 
 of guilt as if Id done something seriously wrong which led to his death. 
  
  The gameplay as I said returns the formula of the 4 Fs. Locate the enemy, suppress the enemy flank 
 and kill the enemy. Basically this is a rinse and repeat tactic. While you can get kills with direct 
 fire even occasionally to an enemy behind cover trying this is futile compared to playing exactly 
 as the game wants things done. To avoid making this too challenging the game provides you with 
 access at all times to a limited view map of the surrounding area with the positions of all the 
 German troops that youve found. As such flanking the enemy is quite easy and the game works out 
 a lot like a puzzle game. It presents a problem and expects you to solve it the way it wants it 
 to. If you try to deviate from the way it wants you to do it more often than not the game is going 
 to punish you with bullets and youre going to take significant damage. Like the first game you 
 cant take more than a round or two of direct fire with no cover before you or your squad end up 
 dead. The rinse and repeat nature of the combat gets a little tiresome and the clearly forced obstacle 
 course nature of the levels can get a bit tiresome. Especially since the game relies on a few checkpoints 
 per level to let you save thus meaning one mistake can mean a lot of repetition. 
  
  The game ups the difficulty a bit from the first game as the AI is a bit more aggressive here and 
 is less likely to wait to be flanked. If it sees you itll make the attempt to run across a field 
 to better cover but this will present an opportunity to get them as they move. This also makes 
 a game that was already a little on the frustrating and repetitive side at times even worse. Furthermore 
 the novelty of the command system has now completely worn off. Whereas in the first game I was 
 really intrigued by how the system works and keeping track of everything that was going on this 
 seemed all very old hat and I just did exactly as I knew to do and hoped for the best. The only 
 reason I really continued at the game was because I was interested in seeing the story. 
  
  The games graphics are just like they were in the first game. Where in that game the combination 
 of light bloom with the 2nd generation unreal engine looked pretty it is six months later now and 
 after finishing FEAR and Call of Duty 2 just before this game the graphics in Brothers in Arms 
 now look pretty old hat. Not really bad by any stretch of the imagination but nowhere near as 
 good as they looked in the spring. 
  
  Brothers in Arms still has a top rate musical score and the voice acting in the story is one of 
 the best Ive seen in a shooter. The sound effects are also quite good but the ambient sound doesnt 
 seem as impressive as it did six months ago. Where as the amount of screaming in the first title 
 seemed impressively chaotic it seemed very muted next to Call of Duty 2. Again its not bad by 
 any means compared to many games its quite good but its not half as good as it seemed earlier 
 this year. 
  
  The first game had a unique multiplayer in its squad versus squad implementation but it really 
 wasnt my bag back then. And surprisingly its still not my bag. The only major change I saw was 
 the addition of a skirmish mode that lets you pit yourself in squad versus squad action with the 
 AI controlling the other squad. Its safe to say, that if you want more of the same youll enjoy 
 the multiplayer here but if youre looking for something drastically different its just not going 
 to happen. F you didnt play the first game instead of Deathmatch or Capture the flag or something 
 youre placed in the role of a squad commander against another squad commander and you and your 
 squad duke it out against their squad. 
  
  I dont really think this game offers great value for the money. If it were a 30 dollar expansion 
 pack it would have been lovely but at 50 dollars for a new story and more of the exact same gameplay 
 we got earlier this calendar year its just not a good deal. Like the first game this is also a 
 fairly short game clocking in just over 10 hours possibly longer if you find yourself frustrated 
 for more than 2 or 3 tries at the harder parts. Furthermore I played this immediately following 
 Call of Duty 2 which isnt comparable in gameplay style it does highlight some of this games deficiencies. 
 If you were a hard core fan of the original and really dig tactical strategy then youll probably 
 like this. But for my money it just didnt do enough different from the original to spend a full 
 50 dollars on this game. Its not bad its just not as good as the first game which came out so 
 recently that I really didnt need a sequel yet. 
  
  In and of itself this game isnt bad. But given that FEAR and Call of Duty 2 are out there and 
 that Brothers in Arms came out this spring it just doesnt seem like its worth the time and money 
 to pick this up at full price. While it certainly is fairly competent in most areas it just doesnt 
 have the magic the first game had, and isnt at the top of its class in terms of gameplay anymore. 
 A little more time in the oven and some more tweaking would have made all the difference here. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2005 9:12 am PT
Review:  Only half a year ago, Gearbox released the long awaited Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30, which 
 was an authentic tactical WW2 FPS that received some of the best critics any WW2 game has ever 
 received, and that says something. The game featured simple, but very functional squad commanding 
 and was as close to authentic as it gets. And now, not long after the success, Gearbox releases 
 the sequel Brothers in Arms: Earned in Blood and believe it or not, they've done it again.
  
  The graphics haven't been improved much from Road to Hill 30. They mostly look exactly the 
 same and that's a bit sad, but it isn't enough to ruin the gameplay. 
  
  The sounds are great. Just as in Road to Hill 30 your weapons make a lot of noise and the voice 
 overs are good, even better than in the first game. The title music is just awesome and is maybe 
 the best war game music I've ever heard! It's patriotic, sad and happy all at the same time and 
 creates the perfect mood for this game.
  
  The gameplay is what makes the Brothers in Arms games truely shine. Earned in Blood is very simular 
 to Road to Hill 30 only now you controle Sgt Joe "Red" Hartsock, which also was a non-playable 
 character in the first game. There are two new weapons here though, which both work very well. 
 The story is (of course) brand new, and is more cinematic and exciting than the one in the first 
 game. The missions are better and features more chaos this time, which was something the first 
 game lacked a bit. Especially the two last missions in the game are awesome, they are shockingly 
 hard and I must have respawned about 30 times on those levels, and that's a lot for a FPS veteran. 
 There aren't that many missions in the story mode, but you'll replay them on harder difficulty 
 levels just to receive the great unlockable information. The extra unlockables are better than 
 the ones in the first game, and that's because Road to Hill 30 came with an extra DVD with a lot 
 of information that they've clearly included into the game this time. There are also some missions 
 that aren't in the story mode. You can play these missions either as germans or americans, where 
 you can choose being either Baker or "Red". These missions can also be played online, which is 
 awesome. Brothers in Arms: Earned in Blood is an awesome game that believe it or not beats out 
 the very long awaited rival Call of Duty 2! Buy this game!
  
  +
  Great story. The sounds are very good and gives you an authentic war experience. The music is just 
 amazing. The extra unlockables gives the game a good replay value. The levels are very well designed, 
 especially when thinking about the fact that it's almost 100% authetical to what it looked like 
 in 1944!
  
  -
  The graphics look pretty old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvanShowers
Rating: 5.4
Date: Nov 4, 2005 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I'll just point out what I felt lacked in this game, since there are plenty of decent reviews praising 
 this game.
  
  1) You cannot prone; very annoying
  
  2) Accuracy of weapons is pretty weak at a distance and since there is no prone, it is hard to 
 get a steady shot on longer distance targets (excluding snipers)
  
  3) Landscapes are boring and bland; same old foxholes and carriages and grassy mounds as cover. 
 There is no variety in many of the levels; very few colors.
  
  4) Enemy AI can do things like peak around corners, that you are not able to do. 
  Enemy AI is 
 almost impossible to sneak upon; if you sneak around an enemy they will usually detect you in a 
 second.
  ie if you sneak around a machine gunner, he will dismount very quickly even though he does not 
 see you.
  Enemy AI walls you, that is they can locate you through walls and basically track you accordingly. 
 They can see through the grass and hit you perfectly when you cannot see through it.
  
  5) Ammo reloading system is kind of annoying, no way to cancel if you are ambushed while reloading, 
 and also the clips are not displayed unless you try and reload.
  
  6) Can only carry two weapons... how about a sidearm too, and a knife? How about more variety in 
 weapons and equipment? Its the same K98 rilfes and the same mp40s you see... with the rare K98 sniper. 
 How about something more than just a grenade... how about smokes or demo charges or anything else?
 
  
  7) Team AI is pretty stupid sometimes... especially when you are ordering a squad to take cover 
 at a position, often one or two members will be standing in the open instead of pushing another 
 member aside and taking cover next to them.
  i. e. when ordering them to position at a wall... often two of them will position and the 3rd will 
 be out in the open, even though there is plenty of room for him to cover.
  
  8) Most of the gameplay involves the Enemy AI camping and forcing you to have your team mates suppress 
 file while you rush the enemy. Not much difference between level to level... the enemy NEVER rushes 
 you; always camps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_completor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 9:21 am PT
Review:  When I first played Brothers in Arms: Earned in Blood (BiA: EiB) , my first impression was playing 
 through the HBO series Band of Brothers. This game is one of the best WWII shooters available for 
 the PC (its tied with Call of duty 1) . The graphics arent bad either. Youll get mud on your 
 face when someone shoots the dirt in front of you. The sound quality is excellent, gives you a 
 sense of realism which isnt like other games ( the whole blurry screen effect, when an explosion 
 happens nearby) , but more like, you losing control and falling down, you look around, check yourself 
 and get up again. 
  The AI here is also fantastic, giving your teammates and enemy equally smart brains, whatever move 
 you make, will be cleverly out moved by the Germans (but youll win in the end, they arent that 
 smart) . This game lacks in only one factor, the lack of vehicle based missions, like in call of 
 duty, where you could drive around in a tank or fly a plane. In this game, the most you can do 
 is get on the back of a tank and use the machine gun. 
  That being said, BiA: EiB is a great game with an great story, good plot, flawless ending and realistic 
 game play. It is truly a must buy. So, go ahead and buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gla001b
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms: Earned in Blook takes place, basically the same time/place but in the eyes of 
 someone a few miles away. And with the great squad commands and realistic reactions including supresssion 
 fire. This game will please almost everyone. I hope they make it easier because it seems like 1 
 shot kill on all difficulties. But they skirmish is fun along with multiplayer and enemy AI. and 
 if that doesnt suit your interests then how about the defending skirmish thingy, where you defend 
 a post from attack at all costs, or the attacking one. Either way you could really love this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larzin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 31, 2005 2:08 am PT
Review:  Earned in Blood is great , if you are a fan of the ww2 game this is about as close as you come 
 to the real thing . For me after seeing the Band of Brothers series I yearned for a game along 
 the lines of that and these guys have delivered . The music score in this one is really cool too 
 adding to the movie sense of the whole thing . The AI have improved too and the enemy dont stand 
 there and take it so much now, and react a lot more to events happening around them and there seems 
 to be a lot more of them too .
  The whole feel of being in France with the buildings and love the touch of horses popping up in 
 barns etc . Havent treid the online play as yet but will get around to that once I ve battled through 
 the single player .
  
  Where to next for the Brothers in Arms ? Bastogne ? Arnhem ? I really hope the guys push on with 
 this title and we see Red , Baker and the boys in more titles to follow . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dare
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 29, 2005 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Enjoyable on all levels, Equal to the predecessor. No situational awareness (which was stupid in 
 the first place) Kind of a "more of the same" game, but with recent price reduction it is a good 
 value. (29.99 @ Best Buy) The Graphics are still satisfying and the gameplay remains as challenging 
 as the original. My only complaint would be that it was released too soon after the original. I 
 barely finished Brothers In Arms Road to Hill 30!! And the new one was released. The Sound remains 
 very good . I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoyed the first installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomcip
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 27, 2005 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in arms Earned in blodd is a very authentic world war two game. It is played out just 
 like the real war. This game has many good features about it such as the graphics and gameplay 
 are very good, if you shoot a horse it will fall and die. All of the weaponry is acurate to the 
 real one used. This games is worth getting if you are a world war two fan or not. One of the best 
 features is the strategy involved in it you can control your men to go anywhere or doo anything. 
 Overall it is a very good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmj
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 11:16 am PT
Review:  If you played the first yoU know what to expect. nothing different just more boring cut scenes that 
 u have to watch? Gives u time to hit the John or refresh
  that bevereage of choice "domestic or imported!"
  This game is nothing like a real military game 
 "OPERATION FLASH POINT" got love that u can, t go places! I, m getting sick of linear games yawn! 
 ! GAME DEVELOPERS BELIEVE THAT WE DON, T HAVE ENOUGH GREY MATTER TO THINK FOR OUR SELVES SO WE NEED 
 to be lead around by our hands DOWN A PATH! YAWN BURP!
  
  Where is OPERATION FLASHPOINT 2 dambit ALMOST 3 YEARS WAITING FOR THIS !??
  Any way same game 
 as before the same washed out graphics your ai are some of the worst shots that came out of boot 
 camp not to mention that u need to be 25 feet away from enemy to shoot them your self! even with 
 the sniper rifle! So need less to say I found myself having the team suppress as I RAMBOed in and 
 just spray ed and preyed the nest which works 90% of the time with little damage! All in all it 
 was a fun game to waste a rainy day playing!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeesuk
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2005 5:23 am PT
Review:  I'll admit, the opening mission in the first Call of Duty had me sold. The sheer presentation and 
 atmosphere alone won me over. The action was intense and fast-paced and really did a fine job of 
 creating a sense of chaos. At that time, no WWII first person shooter had an answer.
  
  But along came Brothers in Arms, which featured a perfect fusion of squad tactics, realism, and 
 action. When playing BiA, I really felt like a sergeant who had to implement sound strategy and 
 tactics to take down the Nazi opposition. Suppression, flanking, and aiming down the sight all 
 had such a realistic feel that captured the intensity and fear of a WWII soldier. I really was 
 a bit on edge because of all the care and precise execution that I had to devote to taking out 
 just two enemies. In CoD, I felt like a god in some respects, because of the ease with which I 
 could point my crosshair at enemies and wipe out a few in succession. In BiA, even this can prove 
 to be a bit of a challenge, which is what I want.
  
  So here we are with CoD II and the core gameplay still has not changed. The AI's more aggressive. 
 There are more routes you can take to achieve your missions. But at its very essence, it feels 
 like an arcade game... just a more difficult one. Reading reviews and seeing no mention of squad-based 
 tactics, I knew what to expect before playing this. Sure enough, the game did not impress me much.
 
  
  CoD II's AI is definitely aggressive, but it does not exhibit the intelligence, craftiness, and 
 cunning of the Nazi forces like BiA does. BiA's AI resembles an army of soldiers who will employ 
 various tactics to kill you. CoD II's is a bunch of morons who throw more grenades and shoot more 
 accurately.
  
  I'll give CoD II its deserved brownie points for the excellent graphics, sound effects, musical 
 score, and overall presentation. It definitely does have that blockbuster Hollywood flare. But 
 as we all well know, most enemies in Hollywood are... stupid.
  
  And for crying out loud, where are the ragdoll physics? Considering that BiA is the graphical ugly 
 duckling of the two, how can CoD II not include them? These days, I expect ragdoll physics to be 
 in newly released FPS games.
  
  Stick with BiA if you really want the white-knuckle action and panic of a WWII soldier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandmon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2005 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms - Earned in Blood is a very good step from Brothers in Arms - Road to Hill 30.
 
  The first major difference is that the enemys AI is better, than in BiA- Road to Hill 30 the enemy 
 would only stay in the same position and wont flank you are move when you flank him, this time 
 in Earned in Blood the enemy will flank you and he will move to a different cover when you flank 
 him.
  For realistic enviorments its very good as if an 88 or a tank shoots to a building, the building 
 is going to collaps and the same will you if you are in it.
  For the sounds is very life like and real. In real life I have fired an MP40 and the sound in Brothers 
 in arms is the closest ive heard in many WWII games.
  In short this game diserves the 'MOST REALASTIC WWII GAME EVER' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripleXpacK
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 17, 2005 6:31 am PT
Review:  Well Brothers in arms earned in blood is finally here! Base on the same story (true story) has the 
 very good game from last year's Brothers in arms road to hill 30, this time you take the lead of 
 your squad has Joe '"Red'"Hartsock.
  
  The game does'nt bring anything new from the last year's game except skirmish mode and more multiplayer 
 modes to play, but it so well done interresting and fun!! that its hard to put away. From the places 
 you go (really accurate) to fight and the war sounds surrounding you like bullets flying by your 
 head and your team screaming at you, earn in blood really makes you feel like you are in a war.
 
  
  If you liked Brothers in arms road to hill 30, you will love this game. But again if you played 
 the first brothers in arm you will say humm... been there done that, but hey! let's do it again!! 
 BOYS!! suppress those germans!!
  
  Review by {SOF} GnR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cr1ms0njyhad
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 9:23 pm PT
Review:  If you loved Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30, you will definitely get a 'warm fuzzy' feeling 
 playing this game. It is a continuation of the storyline and in fact touches base with some of 
 the things done in the original game. The storyline is solid and easy to follow. The graphics, 
 if you have a good rig, can be quite spectacular and 'in your face.' The controls and the same 
 as before, and any veteran FPS player will find the learning curve for this game to be in the 0-5 
 second range. This game requires just a tad more strategy than the original, as even charging a 
 suppressed enemy is likely to get you killed. However if you have the patience to find the 'back 
 door' path to flank the enemy then you should have little difficulty in playing the game from start 
 to finish. 
  
  Speaking of Finish. This game fell a little short on the time frame. Over the years I have come 
 to expect a solid first person shooter to last the average player about 20-25 hours, or approx 
 $2/hr if you bought the game new for $49.99. BiA: EiB fell a little short of that mark, however. 
 This is surprising and a little disappointing as the game is more of a First Person Team Strategy 
 game than a straightforward 'shooter.' The average player with good motor skills and a little patience 
 should be able to burn through this game in about 10 hours flat. 
  
  In the end, of course, the question is: Is this worth the money? In the gaming community this is 
 always a very subjective question. Personally the multiplayer additions don't add all that much 
 depth to the game. However this 'sequel,' like the original, does have enough depth to the single 
 player story to give it some replayability. This game would best be classed as a 'few times a year' 
 game. Meaning that after playing the game once, you may come back and dust it off 6 or so months 
 down the road on a 'slow weekend' and play through it again, but otherwise it will just collect 
 dust on the shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niel19_us
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 10:13 am PT
Review:  This is the game I was looking forward to since I played BIA: Road to Hill 30. Well I am certainly 
 not disappointed, the game play is great and the enemy AI make it best. The graphic engine is showing 
 its age even after remaking it. The story is good; its not good as the original. The aiming system 
 has made playing little hard since while aiming your rifle will move around too much. I am not 
 that bad at aiming a real gun as much as in a computer game. But this game pushes you to your limit 
 at how you can react and handle a situation. Even though aiming is not good you get use to it and 
 also master it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taopix
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 16, 2005 12:21 am PT
Review:  i loved the first BoA, and the second one is way much better. the A. I. is more agressive and believable, 
 the map is larger this time and there's multiple ways you could choose to counter the enemy, and 
 this game really makes you feel like a squad leader, leading real soldiers. the graphic is above 
 average and the sound is just superb. gun fire, explosion and your squad mates's yelling and screaming 
 is just perfect. it makes you feel like in a real war zone. and this time around, gearbox did what 
 they should've done the first time: co-op. there's nothing more exciting that teaming up with a 
 friend and co-ordinating attacks with him/her against the enemy A. I. multiplayer and skirmish mode 
 double's this game's replay value, and it's without a doubt, worth your every cent. if you like 
 the first one, you owe yourself to get this. if you don't like the first one, this game won't change 
 that because it uses the same formula with more polish to everything, especially A. I. this is the 
 best tactical shooter ever, and if you like shooters that forces you to think, this is the game. 
 stop wasting your time reading this, go get it already !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John_Kelly
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 15, 2005 6:37 am PT
Review:  After a disappointing introduction to this new system, I am happy to report that Gearbox made some 
 needed improvements. My biggest complaint about the first game was the inability of Baker or anyone 
 else in this squad to hit a target. For such highly trained and motivated soldiers, it was quite 
 distressing. With the second game, I feel as though it has improved.
  
  However, I am still dismayed by the fact that it takes multiple hits from a panzerfaust 60 to knock 
 out a Panzerkampfwagon IV, or any other tank for that matter. Unless it was a sloped surface that 
 could distrupt the Monroe Effect, a panzerfaust could penetrate 200mm of armor. No tank in the 
 game could withstand such a blow.
  
  Although the rate of fire for each weapon sounds right, it doesn't play right. Check the decals/bullet 
 holes against a controlled burst from a Fallschirmjgergewehr 42 which fired 800 rounds per minute, 
 and it just doesn't match. I would also have enjoyed a selector switch for the Sturmgewehr 44 and 
 the FG42; the latter was virtually uncontrollable when fired full auto because of the full-sized 
 rifle cartridge.
  
  Aside from the unrealistic features of the weapons, the game play is fun. The new Skirmish mode 
 is spectacular. One can play as the German and hear them utter commands in their native tongue. 
 Fortunately a newly released patch allows that feature to work now.
  
  All in all, I would rate the game about a 7.5. It is better than the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebest18
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 15, 2005 6:33 am PT
Review:  the weapon don't look very good and the graphics are sorta square but overall its a very nice game. 
 i had fun playing it and if you like first person shooter game i think you will like it but im 
 waiting for call of duty 2 to be realest. . . . . so.... enjoy the game and if you not satisfied 
 then wait for call of duty 2 like me... sorry for the English im from Israel.... and like i said 
 before HAVE FUN {this text is supposed to be ar least 100 words soo... bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla } 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghaus1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 14, 2005 7:38 am PT
Review:  This is the Best Game i Have Ever Played, Dont Miss This Game. Mark My Words. This Is An Amazing 
 WW2 Game. This is Far Most Better And Addictive Then Medal Of Honour Series And Call Of Duty 2. 
 This Game Is A Must For Everyone. "I played One Part Of This Game And I Enjoyed It So Much That 
 Belive It Or Not I Deleted All Other Games From My Computer". 
  This is the best game i have ever played. Its sound and music is also great along with good graphics. 
 
  This Game is made up of Real War, Real Terrain, Real Soldiers, Ans Ofcourse Real Gameplay.
  
 I Recommend This Game A Must For EveryOne" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodMode
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2005 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Well its hard to put this game into a genre. I must admit the A. I. in this game is absolutely amazing. 
 I did also like the soft lighting affects. But, when your crosshair doesnt really work and all 
 you can do is look down the sight and still miss it just isnt fun. You will spend a lot of time 
 looking down your sight. That DOES NOT make this a bad game, i just find the crosshair completely 
 useless, but overall i liked this game. Just looking down the sight way too much is kind of a letdown. 
 This is game is suprisingly great looking. i mean its nothing compared to DOOM3 or CoD2 but that 
 doesnt make them bad. Also, you have got to have some sort of a brain to play this game. WARNING: 
 EXTEMELY SMART A. I. overall this is a solid WWII expierience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohamadouf
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 12, 2005 2:57 pm PT
Review:  yeah i cant descibe this game .... as a FPS its a great game but as sequel it doesnt really differ 
 from the last one .
  
  you still play with the same technique, you see your enemies you head for cover, you study your 
 current situation then you react..... peice of cake if you think you are a relly good FPS player.
 
  
  the graphics is STILL awsome. just like the old one 
  
  sounds and music !! remember road to hill 30 when you felt like you are the one fighting in the 
 battelfield?? yeah its even better in this one or maybe its just me .
  
  the multi-player comes with new maps and bigger support for more players on already existed servers.
 
  
  the game should have been GOTY but the first one didnt leave any for thisone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hock1979
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 12, 2005 5:25 am PT
Review:  This game gets old, fast! I love WWII shooters more than anyone, but give me a break. My two biggest 
 problems with this game are character movement problems. This game is supposed to be so advanced, 
 but has anyone noticed that you can't lean, go prone, or crawl??? It's like they spent all their 
 time developing the AI and forgot basic movement features that came out way back with one of the 
 MOH expansion packs. I am also tired of unloading entire magazines at people and only hitting them 
 with one or two rounds. Another giant problem has to do with their whole "suppress, flank, kill" 
 tactic. If you play the game you will notice that if you use one team to suppress enemy troops, 
 and then use yourself and another team to flank them, you can usually maneuver around the enemy 
 until you have a good side view and an excellent firing position on them. As soon as your start 
 to fire at them, they stand up and turn to fire back at you. Now at this point, you would think 
 that they would be cut down by the fire from your initial suppression team, but NO! What usually 
 happens is that they fire back at you, hit you before you can crouch (that's all you can do) and 
 run away to another safe spot. It's like your other team's rounds have no effect, or they just 
 stop firing when the Germans expose themselves. All in all I am very disappointed, and I can't 
 believe that everyone thinks this game is SOO great! My advice..... wait for Call of Duty 2. At 
 least you will be able to lay your A** down on the ground, or lean around a freaking corner. I 
 had the same problem with the first Brothers in Arms, and some shlub actually argued that you DIDN'T 
 NEED to lean or go prone in the game. I will be the judge of what I need to do in order not to 
 get shot thank you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shockwave04
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 11, 2005 6:34 am PT
Review:  
  Brothers in Arms Earned in Blood, is the first sequel to Road to Hill 30 that came out earlier 
 this year. In that game you played Sgt. Matt Baker. In EiB you play as Red Hartsock, a soldier 
 that was under Matt Baker, but was promoted at the end of RTH30. 
  Earned in Blood starts out with Sgt. Red Hartsock being interviewed by Col. S. L. A Marshall. The 
 first few levels takes place during the same events as they happened in RTH30. But you see it from 
 the eyes of Hartsock. In RTH30 you heard what happened to him, but in EiB you get to play it. Four 
 levels into the game you are already past the events of the previous game. Just like the first 
 game, it is fictional characters woven into real events that happened during the days following 
 D-Day on June 6th 1944.
  
  Now to the fun part, the gameplay. I believe it is much better than RTH30. In Road to Hill 30, 
 the Germans stayed in one spot until you performed the four Fs (Find, Fix, Flank, Finish) . In Earned 
 in Blood, if you make contact with two teams of Germans, and have your Fire and assault team put 
 down suppressing fire on one of them. The other team will find and flank you! In one mission I 
 did just that, I gave my fire and assault teams the order to lay down cover fire for me as I tried 
 to flanks them. But what I didnt see was the second team of Germans to their left, and since they 
 were not surpressed they were free to move at will. By the time I saw what was happening it was 
 to late, they already took out my whole assault team, and one of my guys from the fire team, before 
 the rest of the fire team managed to kill the German attackers. In the mean time the other team 
 of Germans were unsuppressed and started to shoot at me and what was left of my squad. Its can 
 get so intence you will have to pause it just to get your berrings back.
  One of the things the Brothers in Arms Franchise is known for is its Situational Awareness mode. 
 It is when the camera zooms out so you can see some of the battlefield. It only shows the enemys 
 that you know of, so you can figure out the best route to out flank them. In RTH30 I never used 
 this feature. But in EiB its a necessity. If you want to win you must use it.
  The game sounds great. Good sound is a must in WWII games, because each weapon during that time 
 had a unique sound. Such as the sound of an MG42. That machine gun had a sound so intimidating, 
 that soldiers during WWII would drop to the ground even if it was not firing in their direction. 
 That is what it is like in Earned in blood. As soon as you hear the MG42 I advise you duck behind 
 the nearest cover. Because if youre caught in the open, and an MG42 opens up on you .I promise 
 you will be going home in two bodybags, because it will cut you in half. 
  
  This game is a great example of what a realistic WWII game is suppose to be. With the good story 
 line, even better voiceover work, the open ended missions that allow you to accomplish it multiple 
 ways. And the incredible sound, make this the best WWII game to date. So if you like historical 
 First PersonTactifcal Shooters, this is the game for you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
