-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/brothersinarms/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lengthy, varied campaign.
 High presentation values - cinematic in scope and feel.
 Squad commands and first person control result in a best of both worlds gameplay combo.
 Fresh multiplayer design.
 Sharp, impactful sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some issues in pathing, cover AI for teammates.
 Command interface feels limited at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 18, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.8, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 5,452 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Gearbox Software
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Mar 15, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
By bringing together the best aspects of squad-based shooters with the freedom of a more action-oriented 
 shooter, Brothers in Arms offers a unique gameplay experience in the unlikeliest of genres. 
 

  We'll admit it. When we first heard about Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30, a small voice inside 
 our heads said cynically, "Just what the world needs... another World War II-based first-person 
 shooter." Sure, it has some squad-command mechanics, but it wasn't lost on us that those design 
 aspects were rather similar to another military game, Full Spectrum Warrior. The big difference 
 with Brothers in Arms is that it puts a gun in your hands and actually allows you to pull the trigger. 
 And, oh, what a difference it makes! Brothers in Arms is paced more deliberately than other popular 
 WWII shooters, such as Medal of Honor and Call of Duty. But the game more than makes up for any 
 apparent absence of run-and-gun action with the raw intensity and realism of its battles combined 
 with the added tactical considerations required in the challenging campaign. The online aspect 
 is equally compelling, making for a complete and thoroughly impressive game experience.  

          Brothers in Arms offers a satisfying mix of tactical strategy and action thrills.     

 
  Brothers in Arms puts you in the role of Sgt. Matt Baker, a real-life member of the 101st Airborne 
 Division. The game's 17-chapter campaign stretches over a week's time. You'll start out the night 
 before D-Day, when you and the rest of the division parachute behind enemy lines into France, fighting 
 your way into and capturing the town of Carentan. Each chapter and all the settings are based closely 
 on actual missions carried out by Baker's platoon. As you beat each mission, you'll unlock extras, 
 such as photographs and reconnaissance photos, which show you how closely the game's levels match 
 what Baker's platoon fought through in the critical first days of the invasion.  

  The game's presentation is extremely cinematic, borrowing cues from popular World War II fare such 
 as Band of Brothers. Every chapter begins with a simple screen and title in stark black letters, 
 narrated somberly by Baker's character. You'll also watch some in-engine cutscenes before and after 
 missions that not only summarize the previous mission in the context of the war, but also get you 
 personally acquainted with the rest of your squadmates. These presentational aspects set the mood 
 of the game well, but unfortunately can't be skipped. There is one thing that breaks the mood of 
 the game, and that's when squadmates who die in the course of your gameplay all of a sudden appear 
 fully healthy in the next mission. This is a minor gripe, though, and the game would be unduly 
 difficult if you weren't allowed to lose any squadmates over the course of a mission.  

  The quiet, introspective thoughts that Baker and his squadmates share between missions is a stark 
 contrast to the intense, chaotic battles you'll fight. The game's campaign offers an interesting 
 mix of mission types. Some will have you assaulting small towns crawling with German infantry, 
 machine gun nests, and snipers. You'll also explore hedgerows filled with hidden mortar teams and 
 German 88mm guns, which are a menace to your tanks. Another chapter has you clearing obstacles 
 off of heavily defended farms in order to make a path for gliders to land. You'll need to deal 
 with enemy tanks on a couple of missions, and while you will often have access to a bazooka or 
 your own armor under your command in these cases, it's much more thrilling and satisfying to sneak 
 up behind the enemy tank, climb onto it, and drop a grenade into the hatch to take it out. You'll 
 also be treated to shooting gallery-style missions later on, where you're defending a position 
 while armed with a sniper rifle. The campaign should last most players about 10 to 12 hours on 
 their first play-through. There's plenty of incentive to play on the higher difficulty settings, 
 though, as this forces you to perform in a more disciplined fashion with sharper command decisions. 

  Depending on the mission, you'll command either one or two squad elements, each of which can consist 
 of a few infantrymen or a tank. Infantry are either designated as an assault team or a fireteam. 
 The former is usually armed with submachine guns and is better at charging and eliminating enemies, 
 while the latter carry rifles and are better at establishing a base of fire on an enemy position 
 for suppression. Like in Full Spectrum Warrior, you'll see icons over enemy positions to signify 
 their condition. Fully suppressed enemies will not move or fire much, and when they do shoot, their 
 accuracy is poor. Unsuppressed enemies are much more accurate with their shots and may actually 
 move, either to get a better attack position, or to find more useful cover.  

          Tanks play a large role in the game, both as your allies and your enemies.     

  This 
 design conceit gives you incentive to actually use established army doctrine to find, fix, flank, 
 and finish the enemy. One or two of your elements hold an enemy down with a base of fire, while 
 you can move yourself or use another element to flank around the side to take that enemy out. Players 
 who are more hands-on will obviously want to take the finishing aspect into their own hands, while 
 more strategic-minded players still have the option of sending in a squad element to do the dirty 
 work. Either way is satisfying, and throughout the course of the campaign you'll find cause to 
 use both methods. It's also worth noting that, unlike in Full Spectrum Warrior, enemies behind 
 cover are not invincible to direct fire. If you're a good shot with a rifle, you can still pick 
 off an enemy who pokes his head a little too far out from behind cover. That said, the game still 
 offers you a big advantage to try to find an unobstructed line of fire.  

  To help you with the job of maneuvering, Brothers in Arms includes a mode called "situational awareness." 
 It's basically a pause state that zooms out and gives you an overhead view of the map with limited 
 rotation and zoom ability. From here you can examine your own position and the position of your 
 squad elements relative to that of known enemy positions. This mode is extremely helpful, as it 
 allows you to make more intelligent decisions about maneuvering and positioning. You can only see 
 enemy contacts that you've already made, so you can't cheat to see what else might be lying in 
 wait up ahead. However, it's still possible to use the situational awareness mode to confirm the 
 number of enemies behind cover, so there is some advantage to always peeking at this screen every 
 time you find a new contact.     

  The command interface in Brothers in Arms is fairly streamlined. By holding down the right mouse 
 button, you'll get a command ring, which you can then move around the landscape to command your 
 selected squad element to move. The squad artificial intelligence is fairly clever. If they know 
 they're moving into the line of fire, they'll fire at the enemy position while proceeding in a 
 low and fast manner. They'll also stack up behind any nearby cover and automatically fire at any 
 enemy that comes into sight. You can order them to intensify their fire on a position for suppression 
 or call for an all-out charge. Your squad is smart enough, however, to refuse orders to directly 
 charge a machine gun nest or enemy tank. While the streamlined command interface keeps things simple, 
 it can be frustrating at times in the uncommon cases when your soldiers don't get behind cover 
 properly or take a strange path to their target. You also don't have the ability to specifically 
 call for a grenade toss, although they will throw grenades on their own from time to time.  

          The suppression indicators help point out enemy positions, but they are not available 
 at the highest difficulty setting.     

  As far as controlling your own character, Brothers in Arms offers a couple of twists from your 
 standard shooter. You can move about (albeit a bit more slowly than in most shooters) and toggle 
 between standing and kneeling positions, which expectantly affects your accuracy. You'll notice 
 this most with the Springfield sniper rifle, as the scope drift is dramatically lessened while 
 kneeling. What's different about Brothers in Arms is that the default setting does not give you 
 a crosshair with which to aim. If you choose to fire from the hip, you're pretty much guessing 
 where your shots will land. In effect, you are forced to toggle the zoom, which lets you aim your 
 gun along the iron sight in order to shoot with any degree of accuracy. Your movement speed is 
 also cut down to a fraction while aiming, so if you want to fire while on the move, you need to 
 make a choice between movement speed and shot accuracy. This adds to the game's realism and feels 
 less contrived compared to other games that simply expand your crosshair reticle as you run.  

 
  You'll use an array of different weapons, including M1 Garands, Thompson submachine guns, BARs, 
 and fixed machine guns. You'll also pick up antitank weapons, such as bazookas, and you can loot 
 weapons off of dead enemies. In general, you're probably better off sticking with the guns you 
 start each mission with until you start running into the elite German Fallschirmjager, who carry 
 the Sturmgewehr automatic assault rifle. Grenades are very limited in the game. You don't get them 
 in every mission, and you can't seem to loot any off of corpses. It's also fairly tricky to toss 
 them; learning how to arc them just right will take some practice. Just be careful to pay attention 
 to your tosses. If you don't suppress an enemy position before throwing a grenade, you're liable 
 to get that pineapple tossed right back in your face.  

  Unlike many other games of this type, multiplayer Brothers in Arms isn't just an afterthought. 
 The multiplayer aspect retains the squad command aspects from the single-player campaign, resulting 
 in a game that plays unlike anything else you've tried on the PC. Matches can be set up for two 
 to four players online on any of 10 objective-based maps. Most of these maps will involve demolitions 
 of some sort, with one side attempting to plant a bomb on a strategic target, such as a bomb or 
 antiaircraft gun, while the other side tries to prevent the bomb from exploding over a fixed period 
 of time. Each player in the game controls one or two squad elements, and you can also hop out to 
 situational awareness mode to check your surroundings, although the game does not pause in this 
 mode during multiplayer matches. If the soldier you're controlling goes down, you can immediately 
 take control of another member of that squad element. Get your whole element wiped out, and you'll 
 need to respawn at your original spawn point with a fresh element.  

  The overall feel of multiplayer Brothers in Arms is much more strategic than a typical shooter. 
 There's a lot of depth involved with coordinating attacks with your teammates, such as trying to 
 confuse the enemy with feints or linking up on one side of the map for an all-out charge. Raw skill 
 at first-person shooters certainly helps, but aiming skill alone doesn't quite compensate for a 
 player who utilizes his squad commands to the fullest. That aspect gives Brothers in Arms a unique 
 style, and one which should give the game lasting appeal for multiplayer. For those stuck offline, 
 LAN play is available. In our testing, the online play worked fairly well. It's worth noting that 
 PC players who are used to jumping on and off of dedicated servers at whim may find the lack of 
 these servers in Brothers in Arms frustrating. Since games are limited to four players, all available 
 servers are created by players, so it can be annoying to have to constantly jump around from server 
 to server as players log on and off.  

  The graphics and sound in Brothers in Arms add to the game's overall excellence. Character models 
 are good overall, offering up some nice detail in motion with the way they carry their weapons 
 and take position behind cover. Squadmates who have taken a lot of hits will also limp noticeably 
 and won't run as quickly. The models do appear a bit blocky at times, however, and the character 
 faces have a somewhat lifeless, mannequin-like quality to them, particularly in the eyes. Vehicles 
 and weapons are realistically modeled in both the way they look and the way they sound, as are 
 all the settings in the game, including the position of foliage, roads, and buildings. Bullets 
 kick up debris and dust depending on their impact point. In fact, if you're being fired upon, you'll 
 see bits of dirt kick up and "stick" to the screen as the bullets plink and whiz by your head. 
 Your squadmates will also yell for you to get down. These are useful visual and audio cues that 
 alert you to when you should duck your head back behind cover.  

          Dirt kicks up on the screen when you're under fire.     

  You'll see noticeable blood 
 spray as you fire at and hit enemies up close, but this isn't done gratuitously. Certain cutscenes, 
 however, can get rather gory and graphic. Add that to the cussing you'll hear, and you'll have 
 a game that captures the grim reality of war (which is also found in any movie or miniseries) . 
 What's also interesting is that there's no music at all during gameplay. An orchestral score is 
 limited to the menus and loading screens. Again, this seems like a conscious design decision, adding 
 to the cold overall feeling that the game offers.  

  The PC version of Brothers in Arms was released just a week after the Xbox version, and it offers 
 a very similar experience as its console cousin. As you'd expect, the graphics benefit from higher 
 resolution, making for more- striking visuals, though not quite up to par with the very best the 
 PC has to offer. The controls translate well to a mouse-and-keyboard setup, but you shouldn't necessarily 
 expect the game to be any easier. Scope drift on rifles, for instance, seems to be somewhat more 
 pronounced in the PC version of the game than on the Xbox. Ultimately, the differences between 
 the two versions are very slight and your choice will come down to personal preferences. If there's 
 one thing that takes just a bit of the shine off of the PC version of Brothers in Arms, it's the 
 stiffer competition among action games on the PC platform, particularly in World War II shooter 
 subgenre.  

  By bringing together the best aspects of squad-based shooters with the freedom of a more action-oriented 
 game, Brothers in Arms offers a unique gameplay experience in the unlikeliest of genres: a World 
 War II shooter. The campaign is varied and lengthy enough to keep players thrilled from beginning 
 to end. There's even good incentive to play through again at higher difficulties. Combined with 
 a well-designed and thought-out multiplayer aspect, Brothers in Arms offers one of the best World 
 War II gaming experiences to date.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (171 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Archpimp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I just have to say right off the bat that I truly enjoy the Brothers in Arms stories that accompany 
 the games as they put a real face on men in combat. As a history major and WWII fanatic I found 
 this game fantastic in the way it showed the how soldiers reacted and interacted when faced with 
 an intense combat situation. The feeling that a the heroes of the greatest never saw themselves 
 as heroes truly shines through. Great job to Col. Antel and the staff at Gearbox. 
  
  The game itself is well put together as far as gameplay is concerned but with a few minor AI problems. 
 I found the game quite challenging which is rare for most games of late. Although at times I found 
 myself getting frustrated at how difficult some missions were on the Authentic level. I do feel 
 this adds to the reality of combat and lets the player realize the reality of combat. It should 
 be noted that this game is based on the actions of a regiment and not a squad as the game suggests. The 
 one small glitch that I sometimes found frustrating was that the squad AI sometimes put one of 
 my troopers in the open or they hid on the wrong side of a position thus ending their lives quickly. 
 I also found the tanks to be unwieldy when telling them where to go or trying to get them to focus 
 their guns in certain direction as I pulled an enemy tank to them. Gearbox should have taken note 
 of the Ghost Recon games and allowed you to focus your squad's aim to a certain area. 
  
  All in all this a great game with great missions and pulls the player in and allows them to experience 
 real combat as few games have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meat_Bag
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 2:15 am PT
Review:  Well, technically, this game isn't exactly run-of-the-mill WW2 shooter, even tough it may seem 
 like it. Incredible as it may sound, this is actually a very realistic, tactical WW2 shooter, even 
 featuring some real-life people, such as the legendary Lt. Colonel Robert Cole. That's right, my 
 dear readers, for all of you who are (like me) sick of uninspired old WW2 shooters that far overstayed 
 their welcome, I'll say just one thing... You've never played anything like this before!
  
  OK, OK, I'm starting to sound really cheesy, I know... I'm like a little kid who just got a new 
 toy and can't stop being excited about it. Well, with good reason. Because I've just started playing 
 this game for the fifth time, and I realized I can still enjoy the hell out of it. Why? Well, for 
 one thing, I hate those crappy WW2 shooters where you get to play a super soldier who is simply 
 taking a stroll throughout the battlefield, killing hundreds of enemies on the way. It's like watching 
 an old war movie where a bunch of spray-tanned American soldiers massacre half of the German war 
 effort in about an hour. Except in a computer game you're the main actor. I mean... Cheeeeeesyyyyyy!
 
  
  But not here, my friends! Oh no, this time Jerries are out for blood! OUR blood! They're smart, 
 aggressive, and desperate to stay alive. I swear, these buggers simply refuse to die for their 
 country! But they have no problems with making you die for yours... So yes, the most important 
 thing in any tactical shooter, the AI, works simply brilliant here! Let's just cut to the point 
 and get this straight. Both your squadmates (yes, you command a squad throughout an entire game) 
 and your enemies are extremely smart and effective killing machines. I mean, they're trained soldiers 
 after all. They fight like trained soldiers are ought to do. So no worries, you won't do any babysitting 
 here. Heck, they'll even save your butt from time to time when you run into an unexpected trouble. 
 Thank God for good programming! 
  
  Jerries, on the other hand, are just about as smart as your boys. They're using different tactics, 
 relying heavily on ambush, machine gun emplacements and holding a line from behind good cover, 
 using their superior knowledge of the terrain. Whereas you and your men use more flexible, mobile 
 tactics of four F's (Find, Fix, Flank and Finish) , an already established military doctrine developed 
 by the US Army Paratroopers in WW2. Hey, this game is also educational! Can you believe that?! 
 Aaaaanyway, it's obvious even tough from all the unlockable bonus features in this game. This was 
 also supposed to educate you on what really happened and why during those bloody days. 
  
  Oh, just to mention it, the entire game takes place in Normandy, during first crucial 6 days of 
 the invasion. Woe! Didn't see that one coming, eh? You lead a group of paratroopers and you fight 
 Germans. I mean, we've all done it before, we all saw "Saving Private Ryan" and "Band Of Brothers", 
 and we heard all about it in the history class. Is there really any point in telling anything more 
 about the story and setting of a WW2 game?
  You'll take on German infantry, gun emplacements, Panzer tanks, even SS troops and German Paratroopers. 
 It seems easy beating a few demoralized, poorly trained Ost troopers, but once you face SS Panzergrenadiers 
 and Falschirmjager, you'll see the difference. Their superior training and equipment will often 
 give you a lot of headache. But lucky for you, you can take whatever weapon you choose from your 
 dead foes. At least until you get a Springfield sniper rifle or a BAR, hehehe... Well, my biggest 
 issue with this game is how lousy and underpowered the American weapons are. I mean, as far as 
 I know, Jerries didn't have any body armor back in the 1940's. So why the heck do I need to waste 
 half of the clip to take out one enemy with my Thompson?! In real life the Germans might have had 
 a better infantry weapons as far as accuracy and stopping power, but DAMMIT!!!! M1 Garand wasn't 
 firing rubber bullets, for Christ's sake!!!! And we're talking about a point blank range where 
 stopping power over a 100 meters isn't really an issue!!!! So yes, I was using German weapons whenever 
 I could, even tough I wished I could use American. Sad, really...
  
  But no worries, this is the only bad thing about this game. And besides... I always kind of liked 
 German weapons, especially the famous STG-44, the grand-daddy of all assault rifles. *sigh*
  
  In any case, this game feels and plays quite realistically. If you try to run and gun, you'll 
 end up dead before you can say katzenjammer. Remember, cover is your best friend and you'll have 
 to use it wisely in order to put more bullets in your enemies' brains then they put into yours. 
 Well, it's all explained perfectly in a tutorial so there's no need to brag about it here. Just 
 cover your flanks and make sure that Jerries are getting hit on theirs. The other thing that's 
 unique about this game is the way you command your squad. With the simple press of a button you 
 can choose between suppressive fire, assault or cover. It's just perfect! I wish Operation Flashpoint, 
 one of my favorite games of all time, had a command system like this. But hey, I'm being unfair, 
 Operation Flashpoint is after all a generations old game. I'm sure they'll use something similar 
 to Brothers In Arms in Operation Flashpoint 2. 
  
  The game itself has about 20 missions and takes about 20 hours to complete, depending on the difficulty 
 settings. Just about right, if you ask me. Altou you'll probably want for more after you finish 
 it. 
  As for the graphics and sound... well, what is there to say? For 2005 standards, it's simply awesome, 
 and you don't need a kickass hardware to enjoy it. The voice acting is great as well, thank heavens, 
 and there are a lot of aspects of this game that are too cool to mention, or it would spoil the 
 surprise for you. 
  
  Well, go on... BUY IT!!!!!!! And LOVE IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffidiyah
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Among other WW2 FPS titles, Brothers In Arms stands out. You don't control a super soldier sent 
 by the allies. Sure, your own skills as a gamer will help you to perform, but this game is centered 
 on more practical aspects of war. The aiming system is purposefully frustrating, and death comes 
 quickly to those without cover. This is a game gung-ho gamers will hate, as you will not be able 
 to carry the fight by your lonesome. The key to success is utilizing your allies. Issue them orders 
 to give you cover fire while you flank the enemy's position, or give them fire and let them storm 
 the opposition's cover. With more funding, this series could have Call of Duty caliber visuals 
 to further enhance the realism. In terms of fun, there is plenty to be had. The battles are clever 
 and intense. The difficulty stemming from the realistic gameplay will be a deterrent for many, 
 but any WW2 aficionado will not mind. If you're tired of doing all the work mopping up Nazis, give 
 this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty good first person shooter that stands above many others because of the authentic 
 sound effects and weapon damage of the in-game guns. 
  
  Another strength of the game is the attention paid to making it historical... it is based on real 
 events and the development team even went to France to photograph buildings from the area, which 
 were then built in-game. 
  
  Finally, the gameplay is unique in that suppressing fire is really important. The basic suppress 
 and flank maneuver for your fire team (s) is pretty simple, however, the maps in the game tend to 
 be large enough that combat does not feel repetitive. 
  
  I can't recommend the game for someone who does not like shooters or is not interested in history, 
 however, if you fall into either category (or, like myself, both) then you ought to really enjoy 
 Road to Hill 30. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vargasr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is just amazing, if you like FPS and WWII this is your game.
  
  Graphics 8.5
  Even when it was released it wasn't all that great, but hey they aren't ugly either. The explosions 
 aren't very nice...
  
  Sound 10.0
  bullets flying over your head explosions near you with your comrades shouting
  
  Gameplay 10.0
 
  There isn't any game more realistic of the LASTGEN than it you don't have crosshair you die really 
 quickly your friends too. there is not a single healthpack legs and arms blow...
  
  Replay 9.0
  There is plenty of bonus and 4 difficulties but after the 3rd time you complete it 
 there isn't more to do
  
  Fun 9.5
  The game is so tense making you care about your teammates that you can easily expand 2 hours playing 
 thinking that it was 30 minutes.
  
  The history is real, the intensity and realism are great it is highly recommended for everyone 
 that's like WWII but warning, this isn't a run and shoot game
  
  overall 9.5
  
  P. S: i'm from brazil so i am not very good in english!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: In Brothers in Arms you play as Matt Baker, a sergeant in Fox Company of the 502nd Parachute 
 Infantry Regiment, 101st Airborne Division. The game takes place over seven days, starting with 
 the nighttime drop and ending with the action at Hill 30. Nearly all of the locations and events 
 and characters you'll encounter in this game have been drawn from the actual experiences of the 
 502nd Regiment over those seven days. 
  Brothers in Arms is an undeniably authentic experience not like most of the medal of honor games 
 where you are a one man army. In this game you need to look to your team to help you out. If you 
 have allready played Full Spectrum Warrior, then you will have a general familiarity with the controls. 
 Consequently, you can expect early missions to involve linking up with other paratroopers and taking 
 out German defenses. From there you'll move on to clearing out towns, blowing bridges, and keeping 
 Jerry from overrunning your command posts and there are missions such as Exit 4 off Utah Beach 
 all the way to the final showdown at Carentan. Of couse there is a multiplayer part of the game 
 which is great. But there seems to be no one one to play with for the PC version of the game. Also 
 I found aiming at the enemy a little difficult because it seemed that when looking down the sighs 
 of the gun it moved unnessasaraly so you wasted several shots before hitting the enemy.
  
  Graphics: I have to say that the graphics are good in this game. It's quite colorful which seem 
 to be done in a watercolor type of way. Though Bushes and a few other textures could of been a 
 little better done in comparison to other shooters of this later half of this decade. I was also 
 impressed by how detailed the faces of the soldiers in this game. They blinked and showed emotions 
 when being shot at of talking.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is great. Everything from the gun shots to the soundtrack suited 
 the game and sounded like it should sound for the time period. Also I really liked the voice acting 
 in this game.
  
  Value: The only down side of this PC version of the game is that there rarly anyone online to play 
 with and you can't do slitscreen for the PC version. All in all this is a really good game to have 
 and to replay on diffrent level of difficulty is good, Also the realistic combat is good. For anyone 
 that says it aint graphicly good enough or not enough veriaty... well it's set in France... and 
 in histroic locations what did you expect? I give this game 9.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorski
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms was entertaining but nothing special. In fact, I found the hokey script in the 
 cut scenes annoying. The sensitive soldier waxing remosefully about the horrors of war while solemn 
 music plays in the background. Sure. I found this really, really detracted from the game. I'm not 
 sure of the purpose of this but whatever the purpose, I think the designers failed. The remorse 
 and self examination might occur once the guy is back home and safe. If it happens when he's still 
 in the **** he's a gonner for sure. 
  
  The battles are linier and the AI is pretty standard. I also found the hype about the squad based 
 action to be somewhat overstated. Sure, you get to use more than one squad but the commands are 
 not really detailed enough to make a difference. 
  
  Suffice to say I will not be playing the sequel. I enjoyed the Call of Duty series much better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30 is another WWII based FPS. Many of us are tired of these WWII 
 games but it's nice to see at last a different approach in these games. In my opinion Call of Duty 
 and Medal of Honor are the best WWII FPS out there. But this is because they are very similar in 
 the story telling and in the atmosphere they create within the game. BiA has a different approach. You 
 won't get the same feeling out of this game. And the atmosphere isn't the same as in those games. It 
 will take you a while to get used to this game. And if you don't have patience you will miss a pretty 
 good game. The graphics look good. All FPS look good nowadays. There is nothing new here but i would 
 say that the facial animation seems to look better than in CoD or MoH. I would say that the sound 
 isn't that great. I mean the weapons do feel pretty good, but nowhere near Call of Duty, or even Medal 
 of Honor where I feel that the machine-gun doesn't sound so good. The voice acting is not so good. You 
 will hear some very annoying voices in the game which may turn you off, and make you drop this game. The 
 game play is not something you haven't seen before. The shooting is good and fun but sometimes, you 
 will get mad. I mean I shot someone twice in the head with a pistol and only after the second shot 
 did he die. It's just not really how it is supposed to be. Another annoying thing is eventhough the 
 main character complains after each chapter that he didn't want to be in charge of I don't know 
 how many men is very annoying. It just doesn't help the storyline. Also after each mission you will 
 get medals, which is annoying because I remember how much I had to do in Call of Duty to get a medal, and 
 i got in an hour of Brothers in Arms more medals than in the entire Call of Duty game.
  I would say this is a pretty nice game which is worth checking out. I forgot to mention about the 
 fact that you can tell your comrades to do certain things, like to go somewhere or to attack a certain 
 enemy. This is pretty good but it just takes away from the whole experience. In a WWII game you basically 
 just want to kill some Germans and that's what WWII games are all about. Killing them. This game 
 is only for those who can't get enough of WWII, but if you already played Call of Duty or Medal 
 of Honor before and aren't quite in a mood for this kind of a game, you are better of without it.
 
  
  My Score 7.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bogeyman009
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 30, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  To begin with, I want to say that I like such tactic shooters like SWAT; Ghost recon or Hidden 
 and Dangerous where you need to lead your squad through all missions and complete it successful. 
 But Brothers in Arms was not what I hoped.
  
  The worst thing of this game is that it is very boring and unvaried. All missions took place in 
 the same area, environment never changes, at the middle of the game it begins to sicken you. Yes 
 there are some mission where you can lead a couple of tanks but there to little such type of missions 
 and they are very similar to other chapters. The game lacks of variety, tasks in all over the missions 
 are similar. There also are to little weapons which you can handle in the game.
  
  Visual part of the game is also bad. Graphic is dated and environment lacks of interactivity. This 
 game sounds a lot of better than it looks, soundtrack is nice and voice acting is also good.
  
  The game is realistic and this is the strongest part of it. There are a lot of extra information 
 about guns, armory, soldiers and territory which are renewed in this game.
  
  Some people say that scenario of BIA is very good. I disagree with such opinion, because there 
 are hundreds of films about war where the main character feels the same like in this game. So it 
 is old and uninteresting. Finally character's words that he "needs to lead squad which he do not 
 want to lead" at the end of the game began to sicked. 
  
  For conclusion I want to mention that this game is to slow for real fans of FPS, it lacks of variety 
 and is too long. Yes it is realistic but it isn't interesting.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  ok so cod came in 2003 and it has better graphs - 1, 8.9
  cod had much better weapon aiming or i cant explain the fact that the newse BIA uses that -1, 8.8, 
 doom 3 had far better graphs, -2 ,8.6, 
  all the texures in game look kinda blinear, why it get that good graphs for the bloom- like , not 
 even bloob, cartoon style green bushes that work as walls to take cover and not being allouwed 
 to get out of the levels!, check a game called Psychotoxic it has better graphs with physiques 
 you can actually blow up stuff break them and see corpses fly and boxex fly, unlikely brothe in 
 arms doesnt even ahve physiques or bulletholes A GAME IN 2005 DOESNT HAVE BULLETHOLES? is this 
 console game from ps2? YES... ehmm i meant ps1, it had bulletholes, n64 yup emmm gameboy color, 
 looooool ! that bad?
  
  Now sound the voice acting is awful i mean he screams T-a-K-e ME t-Akeee meeee, BANG a tank blow 
 him away, thank god, jesus aouh my ears, they read those words from a book not eve acting, they 
 sound so fake!
  
  Another thing is that the game is REALLY SHORT i am not kidding here its really short, now gameplay, 
 ehmm very realisitc first i aim at someone and i figuire out that the weapon aim is garbage it 
 takes the whole screen and it zooms in, also you a TRY to aim because the character is propably 
 tom hanks from rescue private rayn and has parkinso, the weapon aim shakes up down left right, l 
 ike the main character got PARKINSON!!!, also one rilfe hit is not enough you gotta shoot again, 
 the only way you realize that you shot a german is that he will start strafing in order to move 
 from his position, ver realistic, so i enter a room with a pistol ( there quite a few inside areas 
 mostly is rip off of outside areas in cod!) so i get in that room and:
  
  he shoots me before he sees me because they always now where you are i shoot him once with pistol 
 he shoots me bcak i shoot again and move around and walls to dodge while he does exactly the same 
 in order to dodge like and unreal bot, he is geman not XAN form unreal touranment, at this point 
 i had hard time hiting him mostly becasue of the zoomed view that fills the whole screen and i 
 cant see crap, and this guy doenst feel anything he just rearms his kar 98 with out even look like 
 it, so you shot him not shot him its no diffirence! the guns look very dumb but they sound cool, 
 also the grenades are limited like you play a survival horor game and you cant order your squad 
 to throw grenades, very limited and very realisitc game, pfff also no sprint in order to move to 
 cover and no crosshair without the weaponj aim, but you can set it in options, especially the unreal 
 tournament crosshair that the designers allow you to choose in options indicates that the designers 
 are amateurs and this is more than a mod than a game, also the laodscreens are way too long and 
 those screens are low detailed showing bad graphs and the loadtin times take ages even in a quad 
 core cpu with a 1024mb card, ? yes i got a 1024mb card, there are many models with that much memory 
 so my 8600 gt doesnt perfom better than 8800 gt BUT it loads levles faster thanks to memory, but 
 not on this game!
  
  FInally the only reason this game get a 9 is the fact that you can flank the enemy , well let me 
 tell you 2 things, first nowadays people dont care about ideas but for graphs, now i dont mind 
 the graphs!
  
  secondly the maps are LAME imagine this a green map filled with bushes and fences around in order 
 to not allow you to get out of the level and they use those two like gamespot says in "the movies" 
 guide, lay crap around to look nice, well thats what this game does it lays bushes and fence around 
 to sue as cover it aids strafing germans behind them that you can hit no matter what, so what you 
 do is order a squad to keep firing and unload guns on them , so you can send a second squad to 
 run at them and kill them, BUT
  1 itill the half of the game you got 1 squad and you got to get there by yourself!
  
  2 they 
 know where you are so they stand up as you get clos... from the left right or behind, and they kill 
 you right away, and dont think you gotta a wide are to maneveur, you got a room lke outdoors are 
 cover by bushes and sometims fences!
  
  another thing is that maybe guns are way too innacurate and you got parkinson, but you cant increase 
 your aim by aiming with your weapon, you jsut get aim,. if you duck you gotta stay awy from cover 
 to aim cuz if you duck behind cover you cant see the enemy as you understand, and you cant prone 
 either, os in order ot give an order i got to get uo and get hit, also maybe guns are bad but with 
 a machinegun or a sniper, youll never miss!
  i tried once to take some guys out with a rilfe , mabe my suqad was flanking them and my second 
 squad was running at them to kill them, and i was going behind them, but no matter they were flanked, 
 they shot donw my squad and when i got behind them i already got hit ??? the-what? when did tha 
 happen? at some pint i was moving so superhumanly fast that i was shooting at the wall i was taking 
 cover with my auto aind strafe shoot out cover to the enemies nest so i killed a couple of guiys 
 nad wasted 4 hits of health and eventually get killed by trying to hit one guy that was palcing 
 every shot in me whil i was headshoting him and strafing around, and he soht me 4 times with kar 
 98, NICE AI VERY REALYSTIC, istill ahvent figured out how did i got killed from a kar 98 rilfe, 
 and how did i got shoted or even if i got shoted at really, well am dead crappy unreal ai, wait 
 2 minutes to alaod the latest check point, zzzzzz! oh and when the game says that my squad is smart 
 and can engage the enemy then i got to tell ya that i order them to take cover and they start shooting 
 and take fire or the tank , take those guys out to the left, yes the machinegun take it out cuz 
 if i am behind bushes i llget killed, i got a whole squad and a tank why it ahs to hit me 1 mile 
 away, also here id like to say thad dumb objectives like clear the poles in the landing field so 
 the flyer can land and machinegusn placed around without flanks and no support, also when i order 
 the tank take thsoe guys out i dont mean to go all the way up and get blown by the anti tank but 
 kill the guys to my lfet that am aiming, also while am on the tank and i say go there or take those 
 out i dont mean turn the whole tank around and expose me to fire and then turn back around and 
 go there after i die, or when i say you go left and you flank him from right i mean DO it and not 
 stick to the ground, or when i say fall back 3 FREAKIN TIMES I MEAN FALL BACK AND NOT ADVANCE TO 
 THOSE MACHINEGUSN AND ANTI TANK AND GET BLOWN AWAY! Or the fact that you gotta take 3 tanks by 
 yourself and they need 5 rockets each, or seein my squadmates take hits in the defend the town 
 level, but not dying or being able to contorl them and it take hit, by the way i dont know where 
 my squad was on that level by i order thaem anyway and they died, but nothing happen, only the 
 rest of the troops were there anyway, another thing is that the situation awareness view is REALLLY 
 hard to control and pret fullstrating and doesnt hlep to see the falnks an everything i said so 
 far it jsut NOT REALLISTIC! well in the last mission we defend a small ridge, knida, well small 
 very small and there isnt any hill 30 so somehow the enemies find fallen trees in a plain area 
 to take cover and after an explosion that i wake up somehow i got to find a tank on my my own so 
 i need to get thru a machinegun placed with sandbags aiming at me leaving the ridge from the left, 
 1 what it odes doing there aim at my alies why thye palce it there and 2 how the hell did they 
 oalce it there and the sandbags nest during the DAMN BATTLE???? so after that i got to avoid one 
 tank to the left and one of the right, am defendless, i dont ahve even grenades to get behind the 
 tank climb up and throw a grenade into by the UNLOCKED hatch, jesus if my alied tanks iv found 
 later just didnt miss that often , so i think i shake them and somehow iv gonne thru the bushes 
 cover and the tank blow me awasy, BUG! it looks like a game from 2001 and its totaly overated and 
 not real, congratolations you acn flank the enemy but EVERYTHING else grapsh sound guns gamepaly 
 levels, is a medicore 5.0 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antogall
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  It is obvious from the outset of Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30 that the game's developers had 
 the highest standards in mind as they developed this game. From the opening sequence to the closing 
 battle, everything was well thought out, cleverly designed, and perhaps most importantly, researched 
 extensively. 
  
  To give you an idea of the productions values behind this game, Gearbox hired an army historian, 
 Col. John Antal, to ensure that all of the sequences in the game were historically accurate. A 
 team of artists was actually sent to France to sketch historically accurate buildings, and time 
 was spent doing research at the National Archives to ensure historical accuracy. Thus, this becomes 
 one of those rare titles that actually allows you to walk in the shoes of WWII Paratroopers from 
 the very moment they jump on the early hours of June 6th, 1944. In several instances you will walk 
 by or through buildings that were actually standing during the war. This degree of historical accuracy 
 makes the game feel very real and honest, and shows that the developers really cared about simulating 
 what it felt like to be a soldier at this time.
  
  The level of realism far exceeds that found in similar titles like Call of Duty and Medal of Honor. 
 Those games, while fun, are based on your own abilities and oftentimes you find yourself alone 
 as a commando of sorts (with some exception) carrying out a secret mission that truly is not very 
 representative of what soldiers went through in WWII. In the Brothers in Arms series however, you 
 are obviously NOT some sort of super soldier and it is imperative that you utilize the talents 
 of your squad members to achieve victory. 
  
  Road to Hill 30 is precisely what the paratroopers of the 101st airborne went through on D-Day 
 and the subsequent days. Several of the missions (most notably the Purple Heart Lane mission) actually 
 happened and you can look them up on google after playing them and feel like you have a special 
 understanding of what the soldiers went through; the uncertainty, the fear, the frustration, and 
 the reliance on your companions, hence the name of the series; Brothers in Arms.
  
  The game is not without it's flaws, though they almost aren't worth mentioning. The enemy AI is 
 not particularly bright, and in Road to Hill 30, they will not try to flank you and make little 
 effort to suppress you. However, on the higher difficulties they seem to have overly accurate aim 
 and will often instantly jump out from behind cover and hit you. This normally wouldn't be an issue, 
 but considering the fact that almost everything else about suppression/fire/cover is very realistic, 
 this seems like it should have been tweaked slightly. Another complaint is the relatively linear 
 level design. Though a totally open ended level would be out of question for a game with such historical 
 simulation purposes, the level design is plainly more simplistic than it needs to be. It should 
 also be mentioned that there is a very large amount of scope drift that many reviewers have complained 
 about, but it seems obvious that the developers did this intentionally to increase the level of 
 dependency you have on your comrades.
  
  As a result of the high level of realism, those expecting a comic book style WWII game, like Battlefield 
 1942, or a run and gun game like the Call of Duty series, should avoid this game. The game is very 
 deliberately paced as a result of it's attention to detail, and thus is not intended to fulfill 
 cheap thrills. You often will be ducking for cover for relatively long periods of time trying to 
 formulate a quick breakout strategy for you and your squad, which is exactly what the developers 
 intended. However, this fulfillment of developer intentions is exactly the reason this game is 
 so good. 
  
  Another distinguishing feature of this game from similar games is the connection you feel to your 
 fellow soldiers. The anonymity in the Call of Duty and Medal of Honor series is absent here, and 
 gameplay is supplemented with highly realistic character development and voice acting performances 
 presented by in engine cutscenes. Again, the developers were aiming for historical accuracy and 
 they hit the nail on the head.
  
  Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30 is a tremendous step forward for video games, specifically ones 
 that seek to simulate historical circumstances. Shooter fans are not the only people who will enjoy 
 playing this well designed game, which stands well on its own merely as a shooter. Anyone academically 
 interested in World War II will also find the historically accurate experience in Road to Hill 
 30 a very refreshing point of view that is possible only in a video game, and fortunately for us, 
 Gearbox was perfectly suited to the task! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mudcaked
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms is a squad based, first person tactical shooter set on D-Day right through to 
 D+8. Brothers in Arms will throw you into a unit within the 502nd Parachute Infantry Regiment of 
 the 101st Airborne Division. While the unit it bases itself on is real, the player's squad is fictionalised 
 following very closely to the respective Airborne troops' endeavours in the opening stages of the 
 Normandy Campaign.
  
  The main focus on this game is the ability to control a squad sized unit in battle. The squad generally 
 consists of a Fire Team used for providing a base of fire and an Assault Team used to manouver, 
 close in and destroy enemies. At times you will be provided with a much loved M4 Sherman or an 
 M5 Firefly. How you use these units to achieve your goals is completely up to the player, however 
 much reward and the least amount of bloodshed can be acheived by following the squad tactics used 
 within the Infantry that were used in Normandy and still in use today. The gameplay is tactical 
 and focuses more on the aforementioned rather than a quick trigger finger and rushing an enemy 
 position. There is a wide selection of era weapons available to the player though in order to get 
 hits, the player will need to deny the enemy the use of cover and ensure the Germans do not rob 
 you of yours.
  
  The main strength of this game is the character depth that is acheived through good cutscenes and 
 some outstanding voice acting which will stand above many other titles for quite some time. You 
 will know and recognise each Soldier within your squads and come to like them over time as their 
 personalities are brought out in the cutscenes. As a result when inevitable losses among your men 
 start to occur, you will feel the loss and the voice acting does a great job of bringing forth 
 the emotions of the player's alter ego: Sergeant Matt Baker. One other aspect that brings this 
 game to life is the outstanding soundtrack which was conducted by the Prague Philharmonic Orchestra.
 
  
  Gearbox have done a lot of historic and geographical research in order to bring this game to life 
 and have done a great job. There are very little let-downs in this title save for the occasional 
 AI slip every now and then, however to sum this title up I can only describe it as Memorable, Atmospheric 
 and Solid. I recommend this title to anyone fond of Military Tactics or World War II Buffs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'm writing this and it's been quite a while after I've played it. To be perfectly honest, 
 so many good games have been made on this topic that I've mixed them all up and don't know which 
 one this is. These games are all linear but still very well done and I couldp lay them no matter 
 how many of them they make. 
  
  So, I won't be specific and I will mark / rank all of the games on of this genre with the same 
 mark of 9.0 as I think they are all incredible but it is really hard to have a game worth 10 on 
 this usbject matter as long as they are linear. 
  
  The only game that will get 9.5 will be Brother in Arms: Earned in Blood 
  and this one. This 
 is because they introduced me to leading your own squad and they actually show the true face of 
 modern warfare of close ocmbat. You have to outflank your enemies, not shoot randomly at the places 
 where they shoot from or trying to pick them out when they're heads are sticking out due to poor 
 AI.
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing 
 else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corchosky
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  This game presents an interesting way of playing this kind of games. In other games, you go around 
 fighting the enemy, and in some cases, some partners fight alongside with you. In this game, not 
 only they fight alongside with you, but you can actually command them in and into battle. You have 
 to make the right choices, so you and your squad survive the battle an the war.
  And the graphics are very cool: you can actually see the blood coming out of the enemy's body, 
 and your own when you get hit. This makes the game as real as it can, but keeping it fun to play, 
 because war itself is no fun... it's just hell.
  
  The game it's absolutely great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game after much mental debate. the demo i played, while sometimes fun, could be frustrating 
 and stupid. When i finally bought it, i'm really glad i did. although the gameplay could be more, 
 the charater develomtment and squad commanding is great. your squad mates are intelligent, quick, 
 and can make decisions for themselves if they have to. you'll really connect with the other characters 
 in the game, and you will get really into it if you play it enough. now on to the bad. the graphics, 
 apart from the lighting, are pretty lousy for 2005. come on, this is the year of fear and call 
 of duty 2. the guns, especially the rifles, literally sound like pop guns. most other sounds are 
 decent though. the difficulty varies from easy to insane throughout the game. it's a good length, 
 and if you play all the way through without abandoning it at one of the more frustrating missions, 
 you will feel satisfied, and thiers also loads of unlockable content. overall, this game is worth 
 getting for tactical shooter and ww2 fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ncmercury
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  A hard game that is over rated on this site. A 9!!! why? Because you can flank the enemy and suppress 
 there fire. Thats all you can do. The aiming is terrible and it takes fifty hits to kill anyone. 
 Even with a sniper rifle you cant kill a soldier behind a machine gun, they become invincible. 
 Stupid.
  Also there is no prone setting, you can only crouch. Very little control of where grenades go. 
 The men you control are idiots and don't go where they are told even though they are supposed to 
 automatically find cover. Waste of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RalphWiggum1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This was a very good game overall the first person was great all teh way. It is extremely authentic 
 and realistic throughout the whole game. The only problesm Ive had with the game are the AI of 
 your team mates where they go into the open after you told them to stay behind a wall and they 
 go on hte other side of it makes no sense ummm the german ais are not bad but can be improved hopefully 
 hells highway revolutinized this game Besides that this game was completely good its worth buying 
 or renting atleast Im sure you will like it right away but now of days there might be better games 
 out there then this one. I my self borrowed this from a friend 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikylin
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  This first person Shooter is pretty fun to play, mind distracting and consuming. It was the first 
 game I have played with my new PC (not so new anymore nowadays again, its 1 year old again) with 
 all the graphic features on maximum, and it was nice to look at. Also, there has been a great many 
 World War Two games out there, and this is one I will recommend to any fans for this kind of games, 
 for it is well done, as a story line (it based on a real story) adaptation, and also as a entertaining 
 game. There has been enough added to vary it a bit from the call of duty and medal of honour fans, 
 so it will be both, together with a twist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lev_six
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  This game is the most over hyped thing I've picked up in recent memory!
  
  I don't understand what game people were playing when they gave it a
  9 score. Even though it 
 is from 2005, it is still lacking by that standard. Call of Duty 2 was MUCH better than this game, 
 even though
  I wasn't big on that one either. I at least was able to appreciate
  some of the audio/visual environmental design. It also lacked the volume of repetition and simplicity 
 that is abundant in BIA.
  
  What someone else said about it being just badly designed mazes is
  dead on! I can't put it better 
 than that previous user review.
  It wants to be a realistic tactical shooter but the aiming and firing of the
  guns are about 
 as far from realistic as possible.
  
  It's like an overgrown paper, rock, scissors. You use a tank on machine gun nests, you use specific 
 strategies OVER AND OVER again on virtually identical encounters. To enhance the experience, the 
 guys run around in a spastic and jumpy fashion. The weapons aim BADLY. You can be five feet away 
 from an enemy and a whole
  clip will miss. In order to emphasize the tactical component, they made it so
  your weapons can't 
 shoot straight. I'm not exaggerating, you can't
  hit anything at all -- maybe 1 out of 10 shots if you're lucky. They
  did this in order to force 
 you to use the weak squad system.
  
  The squad command system is VERY limited. You can click
  for them to stand behind a huge wall 
 and one of them will run
  out into the open and stand there like an imbecile.
  
  This is a HUGE problem since it works on checkpoints and it's
  impossible to save in any logical 
 fashion.
  
  Do you feel like running the same crappy segment over and over again because of the HORRIBLE AI? 
 Then this is the game for you!
  
  The graphics are lacking, even for something almost 2 years old.
  
  I can think of games that 
 are much older that have better graphics
  and more addictive and complex gameplay.
  
  This game really is one of the weakest I've purchased in ages.
  
  The texturing is bad, and 
 it reminds of a bargain bin game from 2001
  called Operation Airborne or something along those lines. It's ALMOST
  IDENTICAL.
  
  Everything 
 about it is absolutely disappointing and lackluster.
  
  If you're in 2007 thinking about picking it up because you never played
  it when it came out, 
 don't even spend 9 dollars on it. It's still a rip off
  by that standard. Go pick up Rainbow Six Vegas for the same price (a 2007 UBI title that is done 
 right) .
  
  Even the first Medal of Honor was way better than this, and it came out years prior to BIA!
  
 
  I never come on here just to bash games for the sake of doing so.
  
  I'm a fan of ww2 games.
  
  This is just SO tired, boring, and seemed a bit hastily tossed together.
 
  
  I installed it yesterday, played it through once, and I am erasing it from
  my hard drive.
  
  All I can say is, Ugh. What a total waste of money, time, and energy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaidevia
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 24, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  This game just blew me away. Pardon the pun. From the opening scenes to the actual gameplay i really 
 cannot fault this game in any way whatsoever. I suppose the only negatives to be had are the feelings 
 of real horror at seeing one of your men blown away or shot beside you. The scenes where you parachute 
 to the earth are truly awe inspiring and also very moving because it brings to mind with a bang 
 the things these men actually went through and in some tiny measure the fear they must have felt 
 while floating down towards the unknown like that. That in itself is an amazing thing t have managed 
 to capture in a game, and the playing hasnt even started yet!
  the game play itself is smooth, realistic, graphically beautiful and completely addictive. This 
 game is the closest to a 10 you can actually get without bo derek in the room! Only the master 
 chief himself could even come close to what this game has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddai
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  This game i bought together with AoW and played it after i finished it. You play as Sgt. Matt Baker 
 as he tell his story from the first day of the D-Day in a dramatic style. Furthermore this game 
 is not a pure FPS it's actually a classic combination between FPS and Tactical shooter. You are 
 a commander of a squad who consist 13 soldiers who divided into Fire Team and Assault Team (and 
 sometime you will have a Tank instead of one of the teams later in the game) . It is very easy to 
 get used to the game and the control buttons (which consist the teams control) are comfortable 
 and good.
  This game is one of the most realistic shooter games you can find. it means no Heal/Ammo Packs 
 and the weapons are realistic as you expect weapons to be. The Developers of the game did a huge 
 research before creating the game and you can see they did a great job from creating the weapons. 
 to trying to make streets look how they looked like in 1944 from pictures, files, historians and 
 real soldiers who fought in this war.
  
  The Graphic is amazing especially the smooth light effect that brings some uniqueness to the game. 
 This graphic can easily beat CoD and MoH...
  Also the sound is very realistic thanks to Weapon testings Gearbox made.
  You can feel the war 
 in your ears when your soldiers scream and grenades getting exploded.
  
  The Gameplay is fantastic the easy to use commanding system makes the game running smoothly. You 
 can't of course rely on magical heal packs welcome to the real life soldier... unfortunately the 
 levels are pretty much linear and there's no cocking in most of the guns but the game feature some 
 of the most amazing experiences you can ask from the dramatic plot to the gameplay itself. all 
 the weapons that were used in the D-Day are here from the M1 Thompson to the STG-44 and the M-9 
 Bazooka.
  The game succeed in making you want to save your soldiers and don't let them die. Between every 
 chapter you have Baker telling you about his life and his feelings. Most missions are pretty the 
 same from destroying Mortar positions to destroy enemy tanks but the graphic is saving this problem 
 by using different environments.
  
  Also you have MP mode which is fun as hell too you can choose a team and play against more 4 teams 
 in several types of modes. After every chapter you pass you get a reward that is a behind a scene 
 of Gearbox or information about the weapons and the areas and the people in the game of course 
 on every difficulty you have different rewards which is making you want to complete the game on 
 higher difficulty.
  
  so all of you MoH and CoD fans you better watch out because BIA is in the house so what are you 
 waiting for? buy it NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lonelynight
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 20, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  The only WW2 games that I have played are Medal of Honor Allied Assault, Call of Duty and XP and 
 Brothers in Arms Road to Hill 30.
  I didn't like Medal of Honor much, I really like Call of Duty and thought it was the best WW2 game 
 ever until I got Brothers in Arms RtH30. The gameplay in this game is really fun if you enjoy using 
 tactics rather then run and gun. The AI also made the gameplay really fun because they actually 
 take cover. Some people said they have problems with the AI, but I didn't encounter any problem (but 
 that doesn't mean you won't) so I won't comment on that. The graphics is also great it use the 
 Unreal Engine 2, the textures in the games is above average, but the thing I love most about the 
 graphics in BIA is the effects. I love how dirt will hit your face when a bullet hit the ground, 
 and the explosions are awesome as well, when you get hit by an explosion you will fall down and 
 will take time to recover.
  
  The sound is awesome, the voice acting is great, all the sounds from the gun sounds great as well.
 
  
  Value: Doesn't really have any replay value except that you can play on a higher difficulty to 
 unlock some special documentary (which I found cool) but if you really like this game you will play 
 this again after you finish it. (thats what I did) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 16, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  If you're of those ppl who've played Call Of Duty or Medal Of Honour you''ll probably enjoy playing 
 this tough scenario as you'll go through it and you've got to make decisions in order to run complicated 
 tactics, lead and take care of your own squad (s) and survive till you finish capturing the Hill 
 30 and Carnetan city. Everything looks like that's based on reality. Characters, maps, locations, 
 weapons and events. Another interesting thing is documents gallery and that makes the game more 
 realistic.
  In my opinion, the toughest feature of this game is aiming down a target. It's too hard to shoot 
 a far target in this way and in such these cases you've got to maneuver near that target to knock 
 him/them down and that is hard job too. But reviewing the map (The Situation Awareness Feature) 
 and making strategic decisions makes these hard job so sweet for you. After you finished the Difficult 
 level you'll have the chance of playing the game in Authentic Mode for second time and enjoy having 
 more difficult (and more realistic) time with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaca_42
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the best shooter i have ever played the gameplay is incredebely good!
  it has very good graphics probably 1 of the best game with graphics.
  the storyline is so good 
 youl feel like your in a movie the voice acting is very good.
  but you probably whant to know what makes this game so great?
  no it isnt a normal gun &amp; 
 run game! its a very realistic game where your a guy named Baker wich is the main character of 
 this game in other words its you! and youl be able to take control of a squad, YES youl be able 
 to control a squad in other words (again) your a sergeant!
  like i said before this isnt a gun &amp; run game if you do that youl end up with your screen filled 
 with your own blood and i didnt said (you might end up with your screen full of your own blood) 
 because there isnt a might be you will die if you use the classic rush gun &amp; run tactics youl 
 have to use your brain in this game and i mean you have to use tactics to survive and keep your 
 men alive!
  youl have to use the four F&acute; s of the army Find them, Fix them, Flank them and Finish them.
 
  when you play this game youl probably whant to keep your men alive throwout the game because without 
 them your nothing you rarely get to the end of a level alone its not impossible but its very hard.
 
  and speaking of your men the AI is very good the enemys will use the same tactics against you 
 and dont stay out in the open for to loong it isnt a good idead.
  whell i will not reveal anything else if you whant to know how good this game is its simple buy 
 it believe me you wont regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell_75
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  Okay I admit it, when I saw Brothers in Arms I thought oh goody, another first person WWII shooter. 
 However, this shooter is different. If you think you can run around shooting anything and everyone 
 in your path think again grunt!. Here you lead a squad of soldiers to basically find the enemy, 
 fire on the enemy, flank his position and finally finish him off. Sometimes you will control one 
 team, sometimes two (a fire team and an assault team) . Sometimes you will have a fire team and 
 a tank to control. So make the most of them. The whole premise of this game is suppress and flank 
 the enemy. If you can remember these two basic words the game will be a pleasure. I must admit 
 this was a whole new experience for me but about half an hour of trial and error (ie. dying constantly) 
 you will learn the subtlety of suppressing and flanking the enemy. The game play was excellent 
 the AI will sometimes try and use the same suppress and flank maneuver on you so watch out and 
 the graphics were good. One thing I did not enjoy was the filthy language used occassionally throughout 
 the game. When will developers learn that there is no real need for language in games. Take COD 
 II for example here is a very impressive game with next to no language. Apart from this let down, 
 Brothers in Arms is an excellent game where the player will have to learn to use tactics instead 
 of just brawn! Have fun guys! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 30, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  I know what youre thinking. Do we really need another WWII shooter? Arent all the Call of Dutys 
 and Medal of Honors enough? Well, maybe but this game has something else. A sense of realism that 
 the aforementioned games lacked. Whereas the run and gun approach has always been somewhat of 
 the norm in shooters of all kinds, that kind of thinking here will result in a rather quick end 
 to your gaming session. One or two shots from your German foes is often enough to add you to the 
 casualty list. Your weapons are often wildly inaccurate. Your allies may protect you for a while 
  but only if you command them wisely. Add to the realism factor a smartly integrated tactical 
 aspect including command over several types of squad and even a tank from time to time. As for 
 missions, theres a nice variety set in the week or so following that day of days, including takes 
 on a couple of famous Normandy battles. This all adds up to one of the best action games Ive played 
 in a while, and the first WWII-based game Ive played that has given more than lip service to that 
 conflict.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Weve all seen Saving Private Ryan. Weve all seen Band of Brothers. Weve all wondered what it 
 would be like to have really been there, to take in the sights, sounds and smells of war-torn Europe. 
 While Brothers in Arms doesnt exactly transport you back in time, the graphics on show are pretty 
 nice. Detailed terrain and models, realistic design, billowing smoke and flying dirt. A bit more 
 variety in the scenery would have gone down nicely, though.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  An M1 Garand sounds like an M1 Garand. A mortar shell landing next to your ear sounds like a mortar 
 shell landing next to your ear. A tank rolling ominously towards your position sounds like impending 
 doom. Accurate, immersive, well done on the sound effects. Ditto on the voice acting for the various 
 characters in the game.
  
  Value: 8/10
  Eighteen missions of varying length and complexity might take you a fair while to go through, especially 
 on some of the harder difficulty levels. Theres also a nice group of unlockable extras which are 
 accessible after completing missions at a certain difficulty. As good as the game is though, I 
 dont see myself playing through it time after time. After all, once a scenario has been mastered 
 its pretty easy to repeat the feat.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  Superb.
  
  Pros:
  A great attempt at a more realistic style of WWII tactical shooter and one that encourages intelligent 
 thinking over a charge first approach.
  
  Cons:
  Even though its a nice representation of stricken Normandy, some of the in-game environments feel 
 a bit samey. Also, a few more options for squad orders would have been appreciated. Suppress and 
 flank does get a bit old.
  
  Conclusion:
  A fine game that does those brave men who fought justice  by placing you in the boots of a courageous 
 yet frail human being and not a bullet-proof superhero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck753
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 20, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty, Call of Duty 2, Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, Return to Castle Wolfenstein, and 
 even Battlefield 1942 are all great WWII shooters. In that exact order. And if you want to try 
 a realistic non-WWII tactical shooter, go back a few years to Operation Flashpoint; that one is 
 an intense experience.
  
  Then along comes this game. I played this one immediately after finishing Call of Duty 1 &amp; 
 2, so I had a fresh basis for comparison. Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30 is all about the shooting 
 mechanics. The weapons in this game are unique from previous shooters in their unwieldiness  but 
 thats not necessarily an entirely bad thing, though the awkwardness of firing the various weaponry 
 can be aggravating. You have to aim down the sight to hit anything, and the view wobbles to and 
 fro the whole time, but I suppose its fairly realistic. I liked it, for the most part. You expend 
 a lot of ammo trying to hit anything, but thats what makes this game interesting: the difficult, 
 unforgiving act of shooting. The physics models for the weaponry are what will make you keep coming 
 back, because they reflect the difficulties and realities of marksmanship.
  
  To a point. Your semi-automatic rifles have all the accuracy of a badly maintained musket in the 
 hands of a drunken man shivering in sub-zero temperatures. And the recoil on the harder-hitting 
 weapons like the M1 Garand makes it all the worse. You will bang away at a target 30 yards away, 
 and if youre lucky he will go ouch after firing five or ten rounds aimed into his center of 
 mass. When you pick up an automatic weapon its quite a bit less frustrating  and that much more 
 gratifying. Cleaning out a nest with even a lowly Thompson or MP40 is a treat after hammering away 
 with this games ineffectual version of the MI Carbine for five minutes. All fun, though.
  
  Moving on to level and mission design. Compared to truly amazing games like Call of Duty, this 
 game is a bit on the tame side. Oh, sure, the language and the gore are more down-and-dirty, but 
 the action is very shooting-gallery, too much so for Brothers in Arms to be a truly hyper-paced 
 first-person-shooter. In most firefights, basically, you and your enemies fire at one another from 
 concealed positions. You can have your squad lay down suppressing fire while you attempt to flank 
 the enemy machinegun nest or artillery emplacement or whatever. Much of the time, enemies are content 
 to play a defensive role and stay put, rather than storming your position *en masse.* By contrast, 
 in CoD 1 and 2, there are some levels where you feel a bit shell-shocked with the wave after wave 
 of enemies and artillery barrages which are aimed at you  you personally. And CoD 1 and 2 had 
 some really epic battles, conveying the mayhem and the din of assault and siege warfare admirably 
  it had shock and awe, no hyperbole intended. This offering, again, is a bit more slow-paced and 
 measured, and much of the challenge (and the fun) lies in mastering the tricky shooting mechanics 
 of your rifles and submachine guns.
  
  While the physics and associated details for the weapons and the characters are great (bodies get 
 thrown realistically; machineguns stutter and buck and flash impressively) , the world could be 
 more dynamic. By 2005, is it too much to ask that a small brick wall or sandbag bunker should get 
 blasted apart by multiple tank shells? Or couldn't a wooden cart get blown apart? Unfortunately 
 these everyday structures and objects appear to be made of material so advanced, explosive shells 
 won't put a dent in them. And, for a game that stresses  even insists on  flanking maneuvers, 
 it would be nice to be able to climb over a three-foot high wall or wooden fence. Instead, your 
 choice of paths is very restricted and linear; it sometimes feels like you're being driven in a 
 chute.
  
  Squad control is not that great of a thrill. It's too much like work, and your squadmates enjoy 
 moving in an inefficient, idiotic fashion, sometimes taking the most exposed route to assault a 
 position, even when there's a safer more direct path right in front of them. Tanks, too, can have 
 a difficult time finding the best path unless you connect the dots for them. Your squad is good 
 for laying down covering fire, but don't let them wander out into the open or it's curtains. They 
 like to die on you, at least that was the case at the more difficult level I was playing on. I 
 would have rather had a pre-mission selection screen where you pick a few squadmates and outfit 
 them, and from there they would act on their own AI-based initiative and require little or no babysitting. 
 Maybe even allow you to shift control to whatever character you like, like in the Deadly Dozen 
 series. If they had combined that feature with this game, it would have been a total blast.
  
  Now, not to sound trite, but what I dislike most about this game is the lack of a save game 
 feature. Its nothing new in WWII shooters, I know, but in this game it really becomes an impediment. 
 Look, I started off on the next-to-highest difficulty level (the one just beneath authentic) 
 because I only plan on playing through most games once. I would rather reload a few times at a 
 harder level and be challenged, than run through without working up a sweat and be bored. But, 
 despite what I read in several reviews, the checkpoint-save system is NOT frequent enough, particularly 
 as the mission objectives and subsequent checkpoint locations are often dubious and ill-defined. 
 Too many times I hacked away at an objective for ten minutes (while the game *still* didnt save) , 
 only to be caught in a crossfire or be forced to traverse ground near an MG42 and get mowed down 
 unceremoniously. Then  joy!  I got to play the same ten minutes over and over three or four times. 
 That plain sucks. In Road to Hill 30, as far as I know theres not even a cheat to work around 
 it, as there was in Far Cry and Operation Flashpoint. Youre stuck with the checkpoint save they 
 give you, and thats that. And it detracts from the experience considerably, and causes you to 
 go over a lot of ground over and over again. Unless you set the difficulty to Mickey Mouse level. 
 When will you developers learn? You cannot go wrong by putting a user-friendly save game option 
 in the game. And, more often than not, you developers will go very, very wrong  often pissing 
 off many gamers  when you leave the save game out. One of my peeves with CoD2 was the removal 
 of the perfectly good save feature they had in the first game. That was stupid, changing to a 
 checkpoint system for the sequel; its a downgrade, plain and simple. But at least the checkpoints 
 were generally close enough together, even on the tough difficulty levels. But still, a good rule 
 of thumb is to put the bloody save game in. If its good enough for games like Half-Life and Serious 
 Sam, it sure as heck is good enough for the likes of Brothers in Arms or Medal of Honor. At least 
 make a save game cheat available. Sheesh.
  
  Graphics are good but not great. There are a lot of realistic landscape features that make the 
 terrain interesting and help you become immersed. The character models are well done; that one 
 smirking sergeant is rather amusing with the sidelong looks he gives you. Textures and sky could 
 sometimes be better. The game runs smooth on my older mid-grade system (P4 2.6 GHz, Geforce 6800, 
 1024 MB RAM) , with most of the settings cranked up.
  
  The overall atmosphere, too, is good but not great. Compared to the noisy, bombed-out, troop-infested 
 locations in CoD, many of the settings here are bit too pastoral and intact. And the sound effects 
 can be flat and restrained. Gunfire is too muted and gentle, and the general timbre of warfare 
 is less than awesome. The voice acting is acceptable, but I got really tired of the womanish shrieks 
 of my squad members (Cant hit em from here! Are you kidding me? Baker, get down! Were screwed! 
 and so forth) .
  
  Now, I spent a lot of time talking about the downsides of this game. There are some real gripes 
 and irritations, but don't get me wrong: Road to Hill 30 is far from terrible; indeed it is very 
 compelling. For the most part it is an interesting game, definitely worth a go. And, like I said 
 above, the crazy-hard weapons models alone, being difficult to master and satisfying to play around 
 with, make this game worthwhile and give it a decent amount of playability. Brothers in Arms: Road 
 to Hill 30 brings some new concepts into play that serve to move the fps genre forward, and that 
 aint bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worf101
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 15, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  I'll admit something first off, I'm a Call of Duty 2 Wonk. There, I admitted it and have gotten 
 it out of the way right up front. If you've played any of that series you're obviously gonna notice 
 the difference between CoD2 and Brothers in Arms. I still think however that I was able to keep 
 an open mind on the relative pluses and minuses of each when reviewing this. First off I've had 
 this game on my shelf for almost a year before I decided to take it down off the shelf and give 
 it a go. I'm now quite glad I did. Installation:
  
  The game came on a single DVD and install fine on my XP Pro Rig.. I currently am NOT running Vista 
 32 or 64 and do not know of any installation problems. Graphics:
  
  This game is based on the Unreal engine. and whew is this thing showing it's age. While the land 
 and forests of Normandy look alright its certainly NOT up the standards of CoD2. Also the faces 
 and movements in BiA are almost laughable, backwards running, shuffling etc. I was in the Army 
 for almost 4 years, never saw anyone, even under fore, run like that. . I found the game to be 
 somewaht ugly. Sound:
  
  I like the sounds in this game. Different weapons sound different, you can tell where and what's 
 firing. Good directionality of sound on the battlefield. You can hear the Germans in the next hedgerow 
 over and take them out accordingly. Unlike CoD, there's no annoying soundtrck intruding on my killing. 
 This one goes to BiA.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is a mixed bag. When I started the game I HATED the lack of quicksave., the in ability to 
 heal oneself by any means and a host of other niggling things. But I got used to them. The biggest 
 thing to get used to however is the requirement that you learn how to effectively use and manover 
 tanks and troops around the battle field. Now truth be told I learned fire and maneover at Ft. 
 Leonard Wood. Missourii long before this game was made. It's old hat to me but the interface is 
 so clunky that I often wound up send my squad to its death when all I wanted them to do was suppress 
 the enemy. Still I managed to get through the game without mass killings of my own men. Another 
 problem is, if you give me command of men, then have them die, why ressurrect them at the next 
 checkpoint? It makes no sense either go whole hog and make them anonymous bots or make them real 
 and Dead Means Dead. This is neither fish nor fowl. Final Verdict:
  
  A good game but not a great game. It is different and it tries to be innovative but not quite the 
 paradigm shift some folks think it is. I found CoD2 to be more fun and a more satisfying game, 
 however I will not take BiA totally off the HD just yeat.
  
  Da Worfster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trebor22031982
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  The greatest invasion in the history of mankind has never been so meticulously rendered. Voice 
 over from your character (Matt Baker) takes you deep into what must have been running through the 
 mind of a paratrooper jumping into enemy occupied territory.
  All weapons are accurately modeled and deadly. The game is so realistic that when explosions detonate 
 around your character, you feel as if it is you being fired at.
  Fire at the enemy and watch them take cover, the suppression system adds realism to the game. Watch 
 the enemy keep their heads down as bullets land all around where they are hiding.
  Some of the later missions in the story mode are hard, even on the easiest level. The game offers 
 in-game cheats, and completing missions on story mode unlock developer materiel and insights into 
 the weapons carried by both sides.
  Road to Hill 30 will just keep you on the edge of your seat, and offers incredible re-playability, 
 as you go back through the story mode, trying new tactics to defeat your enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 4, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in arms: Road to hill 30 its not just another WWII FPS, its a very nice game and kind 
 of diferent from other WWII shooters. Comparing to the 2 most known WWII shooter series (Medal 
 of honor and Call of duty) we can see that brothers in arms focus on diferent things.
  In call of duty the action is intense and focus something on team work but not much, Medal of honor 
 its all about yourself... a classic shooter, Brothers in arms gives us something diferent, it focus 
 on strategy to suceed, focus a lot on team based action but losts in terms of intensity. The graphics 
 in the game are cool and soundeffects makes you think you in war, the game its not to long but 
 you'll want to replay for sure in a diferent difficulty setting.
  One of the weak points of Brothers in arms its the repetitive strategy, surpress and flanc, surpress 
 and flanc, surpress and flanc, surpress and flanc...... this can get boring after sometime.
  If your looking for a team based game, specialy in a WWII scenario this is a game you must have, 
 but if your looking for intense action go on with call of duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 18, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  I became a big fan of WW2 based FPS after playing Call of Duty and picked up as many war FPS as 
 possible afterwards. Some I liked very much, some did not feel that great. Brothers in Arms added 
 the additional exciting element of a real mission by WW2 war veteran Sgt Matt Baker. The missions 
 in this game are all based on his experience.
  Gearbox Software's approach to this game was not just programming and designing the missions of 
 the game following Baker's accounts -- but also research the real weapons. As you play the game, 
 you are also enlightened about the characters of various weapons used in these particular missions 
 in the game. The action of the game at times gets very difficult, at the same time the player's 
 capability to mobilise its squad gives you a strategic upperhand. This way the game feels very 
 different from the others -- especially when a difficult situation is ahead. Enough said -- go play 
 it; once you start it -- you can't rest without finishing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 16, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  You should not blow off Brothers in Arms as another WWII shooter that fails to the greatness of 
 say Call of Duty 2. At first I did this. I looked at the cover of BIA and said I'd rather play 
 a good shooter thank you very much . I didn't play BIA when it came out in 2005. Now in 2007 with 
 a drought of games I thought I would maybe try the game. My first impressions were horribly wrong.
 
  
  The thing that stuck out to me in Brothers in Arms is the combat and squad command system. It reminds 
 me of the Freedom Fighters System but easier to use. You usually have two fireteams, a base fire 
 squad and an attack team. With the base fire you well, lay down a base of fire while you and the 
 attack team, flank the bad guys and take down them down. The whole system flows well throughout 
 the game and you really have to think at times to outsmart the enemy.
  
  The audio is suprisingly realistic with guns sounding on par with what they should and your squad 
 being very communative. Brothers in Arms also has decent graphics with a low requirement compared 
 to Call of Duty in which it may look beautiful but needs a higher rig to run it at these settings.
 
  
  You really get to know your men by their names. When you make a bad command choice they will die 
 and you will be effected by it. It won't be just another allied casulty of war. The games combat 
 system doesn't relay soley on your aiming skills rather than your team work and command. Though 
 it doesn't relay on the weapons it does help to have a nice weapon. This is where BIA lacks, the 
 gun choices are limited to about five or six weapons. Loads can also be a hassell due to them being 
 quite long, making you try harder to not be careless.
  
  Pros+ New command system, team bond, looks fine, tells a meaningful story
  
  Cons- Not a wide 
 range of weapons, long loads, could be difficult for noobs to the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pete_merlin
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  this is one of the only game on any console that actually lets you use real soldier tatics. and 
 because of this no battle is similar to another. this shoots the gameplay up through the roof!
 
  the graphics on this game are pretty good, nothing groundbreaking.
  the sound is very good, the sound of machine gun fire feels o so real and the, the way your team 
 mates get p*ssy when they cant shoot an enemy is quite good because the way there voice changes 
 is a nice addition. and the voice acting in this game is better than you could ever ask for. these 
 men actually sound like they're going through hell, the become angry, depressed. its frekkkkkin 
 good!
  i seriously any first person shooter to quickly purchase this game seeing as you can buy it from 
 www. play. com for &pound;9.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 27, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30 is a squad based, tactical WWII shooter. Everyone probably has 
 heard that so many times before they can pretty much guess it, and well thats what it is. But this 
 particular one is probably one of the best WWII experiences around, and most unique.
  
  First off, many WWII shooters do not offer unique squad commands and ways of fighting the enemy. 
 You can have your squad supress the enemy until they are supressed enough for you to flank them, 
 and then you can unload on them without them even knowing you came around, which is fun and satisfying 
 all the way through. You can also have youselft supress the enemy, while your suqdmates can go 
 and flank them themselves, which is also a good thing to do when you don't want to risk health.
 
  
  The intensity and pace of fighting is pretty feels like you are fighting in real life, If you've 
 seen maybe Saving Private Ryan , you can feel and notice the combat is as paced as it was in the 
 movie, which was very realistic and accurate. This game shows pretty much the pace of how it was 
 in WWII, and thats what really makes it immersive and fun to play, your like a part of a huge war, 
 like in the Call of Duty series.
  
  The enemy AI is very tough and you will die often from them. They take cover, and if you get close 
 enough to them, or you reload or anything, they will charge at you and beat you sensless until 
 you die, which makes you really want to be careful with how you fight. It also shows how good enemy 
 AI can get in games, and it offers a great amount of challenge to it.
  
  The sound effects are both very good and impactful. You really feel like your firing a gun, and 
 when guns are firing at you, you feel as if your really being shot at. The voice work is also very 
 good, and never gets boring or down right awful. It feels like your listening to a WWII movie when 
 you listen to the dialogue, which is really immersive as well.
  
  The multiplayer is very unique and offers fun. You command a suad, or fire team, or even two fire 
 teams. What you do is pretty much like in the SIngle Player game, supress the other player, and 
 then try and unload on them and win the match. It offers a great challenge, and fighting other 
 people who know what your planing on doing makes it tough and addicting.
  
  If you have played FPS's that are WWII based, you'll find nothing familiar in Road to Hill 30, 
 escept the weapns, but that doesn't even keep it from being familiar. This is a must have for FPS 
 fans.
  
  With all in mind, BIA: Road to HIll 30 gets a 9.2 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icepop4who
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 6, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  This first person shooter of the WWII genre stands out from the other games as a great action game 
 with interesting effects and mechanics. In BIA, you can view the entire battlefield in situation 
 awareness view, climb on top of an enemy tank and grenade it, lay suppression fire on the enemy 
 while your squad flank or vice versa, and interesting squad commanding. Although this is a great 
 game, it has its drawbacks. The atmosphere is just not intense enough for my taste as the sky is 
 clear as day and the land looking almost untouched by battle, except an occasional dead cow. I 
 thought the call of duty training level was more intensive than BIA, as BIA made everything as 
 peaceful as a walk in the shooting gallery. The graphics are good with a comparatively lower requirement 
 than other games, and the best part of the graphics is the grass, which actually looks like grass. 
 However, everything just looks too perfect to be in the middle of a firefight. The sound is elementary 
 in BIA as well, as the MG42 sound more like a silenced sten than a heavy MG. The missions are quiet 
 for the most part; no distance artillery fire; no planes overhead; engines, however, are annoyingly 
 sharp. This is a good game, but i would say it's one of the most overrated game in history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curty_flurty
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 23, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  during this game youll find that the story line takes forever and can become quiet boring, yet 
 the gameplay it self is well done, using good use of teamwork and killing those germans, and dont 
 forget the blood and gore is pretty funny. yet again the graphics are awsome and the sound is coool 
 aswell, i give this game 8.0 + out of 10 becauseits alright, and worth buying. this is a typical 
 ww2 game, all you do is blow up tanks, and kill more and more germans, i think call of duty 3 is 
 better: D but the online play is fun.
  
  
  
  join the metroid wifi guild :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airborne_101-82
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  This has to be the most innovative WW2 shooter to be ever be brought to existence, finally unearthing 
 authentic WW2 paratrooper combat. Although there are other great games out there like Call of Duty 
 and Medal of Honor, Brothers in Arms is about as reals as it gets; the realsitc gameplay and feeling, 
 the (almost) rich environments, the ingenious musical score, the uncensored warfare that most games 
 do their best to avoid. All-in-all, this looks the start of one of the most innovative games to 
 hit the market. Gearbox and Ubisoft really outdid themselves on this project, and hopefully they 
 will continue to do so for Hell's Highway (They already did in Earned in Blood) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marolia
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  This game is the best by all means...
  When i stared this game from the beginning i knew this game will be awesome and it was. Best Squad 
 Based Shooter game i ever played.
  The A. I in this game is good.... but sometimes it does have some problems with it....
  The story 
 is really good i liked it... how they depend on their soldiers and all... how they fight together 
 it was really nice taken.
  The graphic in this game are also good i had no problem with the graphics though.
  The sound 
 was just AWESOME in this game...
  I like the sound from the grenade.. was really realistic.
  
  This game is a MUST BUY . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  Naturally, almost any time I refer to my ineradicable fandom of first-person shooters as an addiction, 
 Im exaggerating quite a bit. Even though there are plenty of enriching activities I could pursue 
 on a given evening, I have no physical dependency on my nightly adventures in death dealing and 
 I dont eschew psychological necessities for more time inside of the many virtual worlds that reside 
 on my hard drive. I do understand that the potential for a heavy preoccupation with RPGs and the 
 like exists. In fact, Ive known my fair share of otherwise reasonably well-adjusted folks who 
 withdrew from everything and everybody that wasnt directly related to their World of Warcraft 
 or Everquest campaign. In twenty-two years of PC ownership, however, I managed to keep the escapism 
 monkey off of my back.
  
  Enter Brothers in Arms and a four-day weekend all to myself, and my spotless record for self-control 
 was torn to shreds.
  
  My wife and son left for Florida to hang out with some old friends. I reckoned that I would relax, 
 catch up on my reading and some TIVOd shows, perhaps work in the yard or pal around with my own 
 coterie. I installed Road to Hill 30 and Earned in Blood back-to-back  the former fresh from Gamestops 
 bargain bin, the latter hot off the presses  and immediately, without conscious thought, forsook 
 any activity that didnt pertain to giving Jerry the what for.
  
  I read through the manual as I installed the games, pondering over just why I should care so much 
 about the in-depth bios for nearly every ally in the game. Over the next few hours, I understood: 
 every character in RtH30 is distinct, and even though their personality has no overall effect on 
 each individuals combat prowess, my fellow soldiers peculiarities lent much to the band of brothers 
 vibe that was one of Gearboxs primary intentions. Again, every soldiers skills are universally 
 above-board and essential, their effectiveness modulated only by the power of the weapon in their 
 hands; the hotheads among them will not hang back or refuse an order, in other words, so once the 
 designers convinced me to care about my crew, they devoted all of their other resources toward 
 dropping us, as a coordinated unit, into some amazing combat situations.
  
  Assigning stations and targets to my fire and assault teams was so easy I was almost giddy every 
 time I enacted a strategic solution in a number of relatively freeform scenarios. The Find, Fix, 
 and Finish method of advancing on each intelligent group of enemies often played out like a particularly 
 beautiful and violent ballet, with plenty of wriggle room for the inevitable change of plan as 
 new contacts appeared. Sending a tank forward to stamp out each little pocket of resistance while 
 my fire team kept a supporting eye out for Panzerfausts or cannons was immensely gratifying.
  
  RtH30 is appropriately grisly and gritty, as it pulls no punches in representing the physical 
 damage and impracticality of polite manners experienced by a group of hard-nosed soldiers as they 
 clawed their way into Europe. In addition, the games engine does an amazing job with a nearly 
 photo-realistic depiction of northern Frances pastoral charms. Every area is dotted with helpful 
 berms and broken walls, the better to edge forward while keeping under cover. Each characters 
 appearance and facial animation, while not perfect, is good enough to ensure that the player never 
 feels like hes heading into battle alone. Aside from a few uncomfortably earnest patches of narration, 
 RtH30s voice work was amazing.
  
  After two complete playthroughs of both Road to Hill 30 and Earned in Blood, I looked up to find 
 that three days of my life were gone. During that time, I ate only when hungry and slept only when 
 exhausted. Yes, I did shower regularly, which is more than I might expect from a truly hardcore 
 PC gearhead with such a thoroughly entertaining FPS title in hand. However, Im not exaggerating 
 when I say that I was taken hook, line, and sinker with RtH30s brilliant hybrid of tactical and 
 run-and-gun shooters. Ive since returned to a normal life complete with a balanced measure of 
 work and play, but the Brothers in Arms monkey is still around, just waiting for the release of 
 Hells Highway to saddle me up for another euphoric lost weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vmw
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 31, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Bueno, la verdad me pareci&oacute; un muy buen juego. Tiene muy buenas gr&aacute; ficas, los personajes 
 se ven muy reales y tienen movimientos bastante naturales. El sonido de los disparos es muy real. El 
 juego trae 4 niveles de dificultad, f&aacute; cil, medio, dif&iacute; cil y realista. Seg&uacute; n 
 los creadores del juego los personajes con los que jugaremos son reales, es decir que existieron 
 en la vida real, fueron verdaderos h&eacute; roes en la Segunda Guerra Mundial. Si les gusta los 
 juegos de guerra, les recomiendo &eacute; ste, ya que es muy real. En este juego puedes hacer una 
 cosa que muy pocos hacen, que es poder mandar a tus tropas a atacar, cubrirse o a que se muevan 
 a otro sitio. El juego tiene una gran variedad de armas de la segunda guerra que se ven muy reales 
 tambi&eacute; n. En fin c&oacute; mprenselo que es muy buen juego. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sailesh27
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 27, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  very innovative gameplay and concepts . the new squad feature is very good and there being the 
 concept of checkpoints that is fast catching on is also good but at the same time tiresome. also 
 it cannot be played like nay other fps. no point and shoot. u need to use ur squads effectively 
 to combat the germans or u'll quickly be laid to rest.
  
  a few annoyances with the game are its checkpoint system and the fact that it cannot be played 
 like a normal fps. but that is what they were aiming for . a squad based fps.
  
  what i like most is the situational awareness mode where we get a overview of the game. though 
 it is not very useful if u dont detect all the germans on screen and if ur covered by trees or 
 buildings it is quite effective in deciding strategies to combat the nazis and its really fun to 
 play it this way though after a while the novelty wears off and u have to keep positioning ur squads 
 effectively. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer-will
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  it has it all.... humor, action, melodrama... just everything.
  You're playing as Matt Baker, a sergeant from the Fox Company of the 502nd Parachute Infantry Regiment, 
 101st Airborne Division. The game takes place over seven days, starting with you being dropped 
 in normandy and the game ends with the action at Hill 30. The makers of these game have make it 
 very realistic. Like the buildings, characters, weapon sounds, surroundings and events are from 
 the actual experiences of the 502nd Regiment , and visits to where it happened. You'll be blowing 
 up tanks, see your friends be killed and much more. The missions are very varied and there are 
 unlockable stuff, like interviews, photo's off the makers and info of D-day as well as info about 
 the buildings and stuff like that. It's not just a war game... it's much more. You have to think 
 strategic, not like other games where you can just charge to the enemy.
  You start with a tutorial about how to flank, compress, and use the V-button (it's used to plan 
 your attack) . Later hand in the game you'll have a flank team and a compress team, it's a team 
 to keep you enemy in place. I really recommend this game because the events are nice to do and 
 you'll even learn about D-day a lot. Even if you're not a total WW2 or war game fan, you'll like 
 the game =D Please just buy, or download it;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenjik1999
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 7, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  I really dont understand the high reviews for this game. You cant please everyone, but I think 
 this is one of the weakest WWII shooters on the market. I had some good points, wasnt difficult 
 to learn, play value was all right but I expected more after reading reviews. Really hard to put 
 my finger on it but I just wasnt entertained as I was in Call of Duty
  
  After playing Call of Duty, this game just didnt offer much to impress me. Like most WWII shooters 
 it has no replay value. I played it once and uninstalled it (CoD I played twice before uninstalling) 
 I dont think Ill play it again. There are much better WWII shooters on the market. If you prefer 
 games like CoD, save your money and look elsewhere
  
  And as an added annoyance, this game registration program is still running on my system seven months 
 after I uninstalled the game. I suspect there is a root kit from StarForce running on my system. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sja30
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is challenging and attention to detail superb. The opportunity to play as a first 
 person shooter and lead teams of men and/or a tank provided an added dimension to the gameplay 
 not found in the standard first-person shooter. In terms of realism this game more so than other 
 WWII games highlights the personal suffering and intense experience soldiers went through. Even 
 on the easy levels most missions required several attempts to complete.
  
  My biggest gripe was the AI, particularly teams I was commanding in certain cases when instructed 
 to stand behind cover they stood on the opposite side and were shot to pieces. This was not a reflection 
 of my ability to play the game but more so the games ability to simulate men in a combat situation 
 moving to a position on their own accord. Maybe this is a true reflection of the horros of war.
 
  
  In summation. Highly challenging, intense and baring a few minor issues a rewarding gaming experience 
 for both the first-person shooter fan or team-based strategic gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aloucard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 15, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  This was the first time that i had ever feeled like been in war. Damn good, i didnt expected to 
 see so much realistic gunfire and atmosphere in that game. The reactions of the gunnery or the 
 AI of the opponent was very good, your squad sometimes had some problems getting stuck in some 
 wierd points but if you set them an other rally point they get it over with. The sound was so authentic 
 that one day my father came in my room and ask me if was waching a damn WW2 movie or playing. . 
 . . can you imagine that ?! Anyway the good work always getting award by every body!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joesbox
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 14, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I ave enjoyed playing Brothers in Arms a couple of times. It really gave me a feel for warfare 
 in those times. The ability to control your men and issue different orders is an excellent aspect 
 of the game and keeps you in to it.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, not amazing but as good as they need to be, a game like this doesn't 
 need next generation graphics to be a good game.
  
  It can be limiting as to what you can do on each level, there isn't much opportunity the explore 
 levels or hang around, you have to keep your thoughts on the objective at hand.
  
  The storyline that is told throughout is quite interesting but it can be irritating when you want 
 to skip the story being told in between levels and get on with the action.
  
  All in all a good game, but once it's been played once or twice then it doesn't grab you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wirbelwind1038
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 24, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  WWII First person shooters are one of my favorite game genres, so naturally when Brothers In Arms 
 was announced I went straight to Gapestop and reserved a copy for my PC, months before it's release. 
 I have played all of the best and, unfortunately, allot of the worst WWII games available, but 
 I have never seen a game match or supersede the intensity of Brothers In Arms. The level of realism 
 in this game is unprecedented, and at times scarily to par with real war. I own and have beaten 
 Call Of Duty, it's expansion, and it's sequel, but although they are the most appraised WWII games 
 to date and some of my favorite games of all time, they just do not match the gritty realism and 
 intensity of BIA. While games like Call Of Duty 2 and Medal Of Honor focus more on large scale 
 battles to impress their audiences, Brothers In Arms tends to focus on making the player use it's 
 squad command system to make the player think before reacting. You will usually find your self 
 in tactically demanding situations, in which you must force your enemy into submission, rather 
 than just running up and blasting every nazi soldier with your Tommy gun. Though it's lacking in 
 some respects, namely some rather linear levels, this game is truly unique and very fun! Oh yeah, 
 curiously enough this is the only WWII game I've ever seen that has ragdoll physics. Well, anyway, 
 I can't think of one reason not to recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 21, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  Really not sure how this rated a 9.0 - I can only assume that the reviewer only played it for a 
 little, since when you first start the game it really is quite absorbing, combining strategy, squad 
 combat and first person shooter in one. It is pretty immersive and the action can be pretty involving. 
 
  
  So given this, why a comparatively low score? BEcause the game really is a one trick pony. After 
 you've undertaken its one strategy - suppress, flank, suppress, flank - over and over again you 
 quickly realise that that really is all there is to it. Worse, in order to force the player to 
 adopt this approach and follw the prescirbed route through each level you are equipped with weapons 
 that are so screamingly innaccurate that even when you unload a clip into an enemy soldiers head, 
 if he isn't suppressed it will have little or no effect - more to the point you can only do this 
 at close range because the weapons at your disposal are so woefully inaccurate. Even grenades seem 
 to have such a narrow kill radius that they are almost pointless unless thrown at very close range 
 and they actually land at the feet of the enemy soldiers, making them all but useless for the purpose 
 for which they were designed.
  
  Sadly this impacts on the whole gameplay experience - the supposed realism of the combat technique 
 of suppress and flank is grossly undermined by the singular lack of realism when it comes to weapons 
 accuracy and lethality.
  
  As a result of this the game becomes repetitve, tedious and frankly not worth the effort - because 
 that really is all there is to it.
  
  A great shame as initially it seemed such a fresh, interesting approach to a WWII shooter - with 
 more accurate weapons, more variation in gameplay and less leading of the player by the nose through 
 set piece encounters this could have been really great. In its current state it most certainly 
 isn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zHELLDOG
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game, I expected something like call of duty. What I got, was the real deal. 
 The developers of this incredibly realistic game definitely went above and beyond to re-create 
 France in this game. 
  The first ww2 game that I played was Call of Duty. Back then, when I knew nothing of what it was 
 really like, I considered Call of Duty to be the most realistic game. After playing Brothers in 
 Arms, the Call of Duty series seemed so minor next to BIA. You can keep saying that you like Medal 
 of Honor better (to tell you the truth, I think your insane) , but truth is, Brothers in Arms outranks 
 it by a longshot. 
  Brothers in Arms is all about using authentic squad tactics. These tactics, called fire and manuever 
 tactics, are real. The only way to get through the mission with no casualties is to lead your men 
 by setting up a base of fire with one team, and flanking with the other. Or as General Patton said 
 "Grab em by the nose, and kick em in the ass!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pRiVaTeRyAn92
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 8, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  First off, the whole idea of this game, is AWESOME. I love the idea of actually commanding your 
 squad into battle, just as WWII was like. "Find'em, fix'em, flank'em, and finish'em!" You absolutely 
 MUST use this system to finish the enemy. There's no other way, unless you have a grenade. Eh? 
 Anyway, a lot of the reviews say "what a horrible aiming system, even I can shoot better than that!" 
 You have to understand that this is WWII were talking about, not the War in Iraq. Who cares about 
 aiming, I can aim perfectly fine. That's why you have to FLANK them, not just stay in one place 
 and snipe'em. Also, people say that "when I shoot them at point blank range, they go and run away!" 
 I don't think they know what Point Blank means. Point blank is probably as close to them as you 
 can get. That's like right next to them. No, not five or ten feet away. Right next to them! Here's 
 a tip for all who gave a bad grade because of the aiming: "FLANK THEM AND FINISH THEM!" Use the 
 Thompson for God's sake! You're not supposed to use the M1 Garand for close quarter combat! Beat 
 a certain mission on hard and listen to Colonel John Antal talk about the Thompson. Also, games 
 can't be TOO realistic. And anyone complaining about the "red dots", TURN THEM OFF! There's an 
 option to do so, if you look for it. Load your brain before you shoot your mouth. Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hal_25
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 6, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  brothers in arms road to hill thirty for the pc is just amazing game. here are reasons why: absulutaly 
 stunning graphics, stunning sound, and has a very good tilt to it.
  
  The game play is also alot of fun because you get a wide range of guns to choose from. I can really 
 reccommend this pc game to any first person shooter fan out there. 
  
  There is plenty of ww2 games out on the market but theres not one quite like brothers in arms.
 
  
  On my opinion i think brothers in arms road to hill thirty is the best game on the pc so pick it 
 up and give it a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madeinhisimage
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I am just a huge fan of gearbox and greatly approve of their Brothers in Arms WWII series. I study 
 WW2 alot and it's my favorite topic in history class, and I love to do studies on games based on 
 them. And I must say Road to Hill 30, and Earned in Blood are killer with it's innoativated and 
 heartfelt presenation. I love how you have to use the four f's and how difficult the game can get. 
 It's a greatly thought out and developed game that any WW2 gamer could like. I especially love 
 how you have your situational awareness view, which can greatly challenge a gamer's thinking under 
 the heat of battle. The no crosshairs is a warm welcome, and having to aim down the ironsights 
 of your gun, is especially welcomed to offer more realism and feel to the gameplay. I love how 
 each mission is in Band of Brothers format, and how Baker or Hartsock, inform the gamer on where 
 the stand as to emotions, mentality, etc. It just pulls the gamer into the their world and allows 
 you to understand their present sufferings, and allows for the audience to show sympathy and like 
 them wanna rid themselves of their hurt on the battlefield. Brothers in Arms has in depth multiplayer, 
 and is actually quite thrilling when facing a foe that has great tactical skills, and a quick finger. 
 This series will only get better as new and improved progaming and gaming technology becomes more 
 and more a an option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  BIA is quite a very unusual WW2 game because it brings another perspective to this genre of games; 
 Instead of a none-stop shooting action, BIA brings a more realistic way of interacting with ww2 
 games because it requires precise strategy and concrete tactics. right from the beginning you notice 
 that it's impossible to survive if you count on the old way of shooting and going forward. however, 
 you should lead your team carefully and use cover all the time, and that's what makes it more realistic 
 than other WW2 games available nowdays. on the other hand, the graphics are pretty sharp and nice. 
 moreover, i was touched with the way the story it's being told and also the story-line is interesting 
 and well worked. All in all BIA is a very enjoyable game and what makes it more enjoyable is the 
 gameplay and the atmosphere brought to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartass21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 10, 2006 4:12 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 
  Brothers in arms is a great action game about WWII .You are a sergeant Matt Baker who is in charge 
 of a squad .Your only goal is to keep you and your squad alive .The command buttons are simple 
 .You just have to hold right mouse button and move the mouse to give orders to your squad .There 
 are three types of squads : assault squad , fire squad , tank squad .
  Graphics
  The graphics deserve a 9 ,because they are not that great , COD are a little better then BIA . 
 Characters faces dont look that realistic , a little better than San Andreas .
  Sounds
  Sounds are really great the voices are very convincing .Guns sounds are great to when bullets 
 go near you , you can hear them . So I think sounds deserve 10 . 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game for may reasons, It has a solid engine a great inovative squad command system, 
 a plot (not always the case with FPS) , and a brilliant atmospehre.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are mediocre on anything less than a 7 series Geforce, this is purerly because there 
 aren't really an bells and whistles to the engine so to make it look good you need to max the settings 
 and have the resolution pretty high. The graphics are'nt really as good as COD in my opinon but 
 they're prefectly functional and don't hinder your inmersion in the game.
  
  Sound:
  Theres a lot of consistently good voice acting, nothing out of place or poorly done, the sound 
 effects are pretty good but the near constant machine gun sounds in some senarios can become annoying. 
 The music is ok, not something you'd want to listen to out of context but it doesn't interfere 
 with the game.
  
  Weaponry:
  A pretty essential part of any FPS game is the weaponry, I have mixed feelings about the guns etc 
 in Road to hill 30. The weaponry is authentic including a basic range of US and German rifles/machine 
 guns, the cross hair bobs as you aim rather than being pin point accurate which is always a nice 
 touch. You can scavange weapons from the dead but you can't hold more than 2 at a time so you have 
 to choose what to use based on effectiveness in the sintuation and ammo availiable.
  Most of the guns are pretty darn inaccurate, pixel sniping is only possible with a couple of guns 
 and even then there are restictions, and forget about shooting your gun with out looking down the 
 sights.. also Just because you can see your target doesn't mean you can shoot it, you have to be 
 within a certain range and some targets like machine gun post gunners need to be shot form fairly 
 close up. Also you can often see a part of someone sticking out from cover, e. g. an arm or helmet 
 and try as you migh you can't score a hit.
  
  Squad Mechanics:
  This is what makes the game stand out, you will be commanding upto 2 squads including tanks, a 
 fire team and an assault team. The basic premise of the game is to pin your targets with fire from 
 one of you squads (fire team) then flank with the other (assault team) . This works really well 
 and is very simple, its all done with very few buttons.. Point at a location and click and the 
 selected squad moves to that location, or press another button and they rally to you. To engage 
 the enemy just point at them and click the control button, hold that and press fire and that squad 
 charges.
  Your men are fairly smart and will use cover etc..
  
  Conclusion:
  The game itself is quite short, you can complete it in one day on the easiest setting but it does 
 have good atmospehre, the missions link together really well with game engine cut scenes and there 
 is, well not exactly a plot but you're given full introduction to each mission and you get to know 
 the members of your squad.
  On the whole a very good effort thats well worth playing, the game has some quirks that you do 
 get used to, but has buckets of inovation which is unusual in an FPS and very welcome.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 20, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  First when i started this game i realy liked it than after few missions it got borring ,same storyline 
 , but shooting is real , but its hard to play like this its just easier just to sent your teammates 
 to shootout but that way you cant feel the real game you just sent your friends to shootout and 
 you hide from enemy thats the best way of the game , but the most borring, i liked call of duty 
 serries but this game isint worth call of duty... But its realy a good game for thoose who likes 
 hard tacktical shooting games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbsbyte
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 8, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Overall, I like this game. The game is based on a true story set during the Normandy landings. 
 The story is narrated by Sgt Baker, the character you play in the game who is thrust into a leadership 
 role after jumping into France, and must lead his me into combat with little real combat experience. 
 The characters in the game have their own unique personalities some which are based on real soliders. 
 The game has everything going for it except for poorly created, non aggressive German AI, lack 
 luster graphics, and poor user interface with giving commands with the mouse. First I should state 
 that the design team traveled to France to map out the areas, and recreated the battlefields of 
 Normandy. From accurate looking buildings, fields, and roads are all included in the game. It is 
 as if you are standing on the orginal battlefields. They poured through WWII US and German military 
 documents, notes, after action reports and personal letters from soliders, to find out the smallest 
 details of the battles that the 101st fought through, then added it to the game. Most of this info 
 is shared in the game through unlockable extras. BIA Road to Hill 30, is a FPS WWII game with a 
 twist, the player gets to control the squad, and give orders to find cover, supress, then attack 
 the enemy. The enemy have a optional supression indicator that changes depending on their supressed 
 level. The player gives orders by picking the team, one supresses the enemy with heavy weapons 
 and the other teams is used to flank then kill the enemy at close range. You do this by useing 
 the mouse to click on an area to move your squad too. This seems simple but in reality it is not 
 since the AI is not very intellilegent. First, I found the AI for the Germans is too simple, they 
 do not flank, attack, or retreat but stay in one position until they are killed. Only the German 
 panzers move around to flank. Your squads AI is pretty good, they duck, and move well underfire, 
 but they have to be watched because they might take cover infront of an object instead of behind 
 it. Other times they don't see an enemy, even if they are in the open until it's too late. I also 
 found it difficult to move the cursor around with the mouse to pick a location, sometime the cursor 
 would get stuck on a wall or tree. I have to run around the battle field to get my troops moving 
 forward with killing them. There is no simple way to plot your troops across the battlefield without 
 doing it underfire. The unique situational awareness mode, where one is able to pause the game, 
 zoom to find the basic objective, your squad and any enemy that your character has seen on the 
 map. It works but one is not able to freely zoom around the map but only from the point of a choosen 
 objective. The graphics are soild but nothing special. I believe the game is using the Unreal 2 
 engine with minor upgrades. It does have HDR, though it seems too unnatural. The vegitation look 
 lush but not well defined. There are to many low resolution textures on buildings, ground and even 
 poeple. It really distracts from the game. Though the Ragdoll physics are very good and the facial 
 expressions are well done. Even older games like Fry Cry on medium settings easily blow BIA on 
 high settings away. I found that the Sound effects are pretty good in this game, and the music 
 score is very good. Gameplay is challeging, but mostly because you have to spend some time slowly 
 progressing forward trying not to get all your men killed. If you rush they will all die. Though 
 If they do die don't worry they will be back in the next level. This is not very realistic and 
 detracts from the overall game. Certain squad members will be killed off in the story. Though most 
 of them are minor characters. This becomes very annoying after awhile since one never feels aquanited 
 with any of them. I also felt that some of the story was a bit contrived, and trying to hard to 
 be emotional. Though, I did feel most of the voice actors did a very good job with the reading 
 given the source material. Overall this is a good game. I liked how after each mission one could 
 go to the main menu and view newley unlocked details about the battle. I really enjoyed how the 
 story unfolded, and seemed to convey what real soliders felt during the war. Though the serious 
 problems are to be prepared to babysit the AI and poor user interface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACURadamanthys
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  The idea of a team based FPS is good, but i think that it just dont feel right , it lacks of the 
 good experience of other FPS games and thats my opinion.
  
  Gameplay:
  Here was where i found the problem, it doesnt deserve to be call an FPS just only because you 
 shot at people or things beneath the body of a character, it felt more like an strategy game..
 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are a little disappointing though, and there are some level design with poor textures...
 
  
  Sound:
  It just good
  
  Value:
  This game does not have much value to me
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: weirjf
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 1, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for about 15 minutes and said to myself "realistic is not always fun". I put 
 it down for a couple of days and picked it back up and played it for a few hours. That went on 
 for a while until I finally decided that it was more work than fun and uninstalled it. 
  
  If you're going to go for a realistic system, then please do it right. Don't pick and choose items 
 and change reality so that you MUST do things a certain way. If you aim a weapon in anticipation 
 where the enemy keeps popping their heads up to fire; the weapon shouldn't hit the ground, it should 
 hit and kill the enemy since only vital organs are showing above the wall. Instead they went for 
 this bulky "supress them and flank" system which makes all fire fights pointlessly long. They make 
 you unrealistically inaccurate to keep you from killing the enemy until you are right up on them 
 (if you were this bad on the rifle range, they would have made you an admin pogue) . Once you ARE 
 right up on them, you better have help because a clip from a Thompson isn't enough to kill 3 people 
 for some reason. You shoot someone in the chest with a panzerfaust with their buddy right next 
 to them, and only one dies. Grenades have a 15' killing radius, but rarely kills anyone unless 
 it lands at their feet. Is this a "realistic" system or not? Make up your mind! Even a low-scoring 
 marksman can hit the enemy in the chest at 50' even in battle conditions and with sand in their 
 eyes. 
  
  The maps: imagine maps where you are herded from point to point. When up against a machinegun nest... 
 you will only have one way around them and a direct suicide route to them. These are TOWNS, how 
 about hopping a wall or going into/through a building? No, you have to go one of the paths they 
 want you to go, no other way possible. 
  
  Why is it that I can run up onto a group and have 2 grenades thrown at me and kill me, but when 
 I reload and kill them before they can throw grenades... there are none? Of course this means there's 
 a tank somewhere in the map and your own tank will probably be smoking by then. Conveniently enemy 
 soldiers rarely have on them what they were using against you.
  
  Sorry, this game is just pointless and too much work with too little reward. Reality isn't always 
 fun, otherwise movies and video games wouldn't sell as well as they do. Keep realism for simulators. 
 At least warn us before we waste our money on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherifelgohary
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  General/Summary:
  As a long time WW2 gamer I have played some great WW2 titles. I have played everything from Battlefield 
 1924 to Call of Duty and I have to say that Brothers in Arms Road to Hill 30 ranks right up there 
 with them. Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30 is a great squad based 1st person shooter that I have 
 spent hours playing this game trying to master it. Yet while still a great game it does have its 
 own share of problems that I will discuss in my review.
  
  Gameplay:
  As far as gameplay goes Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30 is about 7 on a scale 1 out of 10. Its 
 a very intense experince and is very historicly accurate. Its also very real. Theres blood and 
 guts plus A LOT of cussing which makes for a very real experince. Hey you'd cuss up a storm too 
 if you were getting shot at. The aiming system is very real also. The old fashion cross-hairs are 
 gone and now you look down the guns own sights plus depending on if your running, standing or crouching 
 the gun sways acordling. This is an aiming system we are starting to see more and more often in 
 war games, and I personaly love the change. Some of the problems with the game really keep it from 
 being the best in the market. The AI wont be winning any chess turnaments and you will be spending 
 half your time trying to keep your squad alive cause with out them your in big trouble. As far 
 as squad controle goes it's no Ghost Reacon but then again you dont get tanks in Ghost Reacon so 
 that makes up for it just a bit. Another problem is the story line is lacking a bit behind on other 
 war games like Call of Duty and the Medal of Honor series. A major problem is that there is very 
 little replay value, But other than that Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30 , while not the best 
 is still a very good game.
  
  Graphics:
  I'd have to say that the Graphics in Brothers in Arms rate about an 8. Lets face it Call of Duty 
 set a pretty high standerd for graphics in a war game that Brothers in Arms just misses. Thats 
 not to say that they'er not good. The explosions look very real. The explosions stick to whats 
 real not whats flashy. The tanks look like tanks and trees look like trees. Just like their soppose 
 to. The charaters look great and their uniforms look really good. The bullet tracers and mussle 
 flashes can make you duck down in real life. The only problem I can think of are that the blood 
 squrts look a little square and are not big enough.
  
  Sound:
  The sound in this game gets a 10. It sounds so real and the voice acting is very convincing. The 
 gun shoots sound diffrent for each gun and the explosions sound so real that if the bullet tracers 
 and mussle flashes didn't make you duck the explosions will. I can't really think of any thing 
 wrong with the sound. The music score is good and every thing sounds just like it should. So like 
 I said the sound gets a big 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_ranch
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 30, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  what is released. You can command your squads, be on a tank and what is greatest, is that the story 
 isn't boring or something.
  
  :
  Absolutely everything. Being a man, who can command a squad is fantastic. Most of what i like, 
 is that, this game is better on PS2 then PC or Xbox.
  
  :
  The first and the only backpack what is made wasn't so good then i thought. It should be on and 
 retry the Road to Hill 30, but this is like a new game.
  
  I hope, that they will do more extra pack on this game or they will make a new Brother in Arms. 
 Exept only to PS3 or Xbox (360) , PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunman357
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 10, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  Brothers in arms: Road to Hill 30 is a brilliant and unique blend of off-the-chart intensity, tactical 
 combat, and history, which is a very rare blend.
  
  You assume the role of Sgt. Matthew Baker, a soldier in the 101'st airborne division of the US army, dropped 
 into normandy, and split up... But eventually returning to stand together as a power of one.
  
  This game was attempted to be a historically accurate game, and required alot of studying on 
 the real Sgt. Matt Baker and his squads whereabouts, which was a challenge for it's creators. 
  
  As you can see, and hear, the US army was never meant for kids, therefore they attempted to keep 
 this game as realistic as possible, which makes it bloody, gory, and not to mention extremely vulgar.
 
  
  The tactical combat is not at all frustrating, actually, it's rather refreshing to have your team 
 obey you in the click of a button without any fights. You can issue your team several commands, which 
 include,"follow me","attack position", ETC...
  
  Although it may be easy to manuver your team, it proves itself to be a difficult game, because your 
 enemies are NOT dumb robots running around aimlessly, they will look for any cover neccasary, and 
 will use it against you, which proves the genius AI will not make it easy for you, especially on 
 the harder difficulties.
  
  The sound of this game is a delightfull experiance, they attempted to re-create the real sound of 
 a gunshot, for instance, automatic machineguns in nests are extremely loud, a pistol shot makes one 
 heck of a bang, and a rifle shot is ear-popping.
  
  The graphics for this game are'nt really anything new, but they still satisfy the player.
  
 
  This is an awesome, historical game... I reccomend it to anyone looking for a thrill and a burst 
 of history.
  
  Just remember, this stuff happened to Sgt. Matt Baker...... Think of what he went through......
 
  
  Enjoy!!!!
  
  ~gunman357~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Most people know all about the selling points of the game. I'm just going to point out some things 
 that a player should know about before he purchases this wonderful game.
  
  First there is a sound glitch with the Thompson. I don't know if this is for all versions but when 
 I'm in the middle of a fire fight sometimes the loud firing sound for the thompson gets stuck in 
 a continuous loop. Sometimes when it occasionally happens it can be extremely annoying and no matter 
 what you do (pause or change to tactical view) it comes back when you get back to normal view (only 
 way to pass it is to complete or restart a chapter, which you lose your checkpoints if you restart) .
 
  
  Second, I have some gripes with the AI. You order a group to find cover, many times they just stand 
 out in the open to get mowed down by machine guns. Maybe that's just my experience but, even though 
 at times the AI is really snazzy at other times it can be a down right pain the butt to babysit. 
 I find myself often going alone (or only with a tank) to sweep out germans because your teams usually 
 can only pin someone and not snipe them when the enemy gets up to return fire.
  
  Other than these minor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 31, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  This games graphics are pretty good and the game play was fairly well. The use of tactics in this 
 game were crucial to beat the mission as well as survival. This was a very decent game and very 
 fun to play. I recomend this game but their are better games out their. This games graphics were 
 great. I liked the sound effects and realism when using grenades in this game. This game however 
 did not have a wide armory. The gameplay is at its best and one of the best shooters in gameplay. 
 To sum it up this is an exceptional game and very fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbighat
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 19, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  Brothers in arms Road to Hill 30 is a tactical first person shooter, which is pretty new because 
 it is one of the most simplest ones and best ones. It has a unique style of play. The thing unique 
 about is that you can command small squads of fire teams, you can tell them to suppress ,charge, follow, move 
 to a position and fall out. It has plenty of exciting moments like for example it has good, happy 
 and sad moments throughout the game. The weapons are cool too, they have a great sound added to 
 them, and all of the weapons don't sound the same to, which is good. There are plenty of weapons 
 to use throughout the game. The voice acting is nice to, in the beginning of each level as you 
 play as Matt Baker, and see the game as his point of view. The multi-player is great too because 
 Gearbox kept the squad mechanics for multi-player too, which makes the game better. The difficulty 
 is medium if you are new to first person shooters, but might be easy for the really experienced 
 ones. The game will have you coming back to play for quite a while. Overall this is one of the 
 most best tactical first person shooters ever, and is a game that you must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 15, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I found brothers in arms to be a huge dissapointment. The gameplay never really appealed to me 
 and the graphics were a little blocky, I guess that's how it really would be though. There are 
 no big battle sequences, and you don't get to fight next to even 10 allies.
  
  The graphics I found weren't too good, though the gun flashes were nice, also you could blow off 
 enemies' body part with a grenade or bazooka. There aren't very many textures and nothing is detailed. 
 But you can also set the setting high without having to go out and buy a $300 video card.
  
  The sound I liked a lot, the distant gun shots, and yours sound real enough, also the sound 
 of a bullet that just skims you, or hits the ground. When you fire a bazooka at armor it also makes 
 a realistic sound, and the voice actors are good.
  
  The multiplayer was terrible to my opinion, only 4 players per server max, but at least you get 
 to lead 3 or 4 man squads that you can command around, while you set a bomb or flank the enemies. 
 
  
  The Singleplayer seemed so-so to me, I also don't see how anyone could have survived anything like 
 that, one man taking down 5 tanks by himself, no support or anything, seems a little unrealistic 
 to me. Also one time I noticed that the enemy was throwing an infinite amount of grenades over 
 the hedges at me, forcing me to run across the field to try to get to cover as they were firing 
 through the hedges at me still, which ended up killing me. The enemy doesn't exactly try that hard, 
 only thing is that they go for cover as on other games, and they stay under cover as you fire at 
 them, also normal, but I suppose the new exciting part of it all is that they stay under for 2 
 seconds longer... The enemy knows when you're running up to them to try to get them while they're 
 on the ground and automatically get up and put a bullet through your head to kill you in one shot.
 
  
  Overall I think that BIA was a waste of money and a slight dissapointment, and I don't recommend 
 getting it until it's $20 or at least $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -daniel-
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of ww2 games. Call me old but I like the thrilling dramatic and enourmos battles of 
 ww2. Maybe i was born a paratrooper in previous life time beacause i can't get enough of this! 
 BiA give ww2 fans and squad based shooter fans a masterpiece that will take them back 60 years. 
 
  After MoH and COD took example from movies like 'Saving private ryan' and 'the thin red line' finally 
 a pc game that learn something from the mini series 'Band of brothers', BiA is more reallistic 
 than most of the game in the market and problably wont reach the same crowd as CSS or UT. But it 
 is one of the most violance and hard game you will find. I came for the action i stayed for the 
 story.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  Although I cannot find anything wrong with this title, I don't find myself wanting to play it over 
 an over. I've installed it about 3 months ago and I return to it periodicly to try and complete 
 it. The storytelling is great, the tactical aspect is good even if it's a bit limited. The graphics 
 are good and the historical aspect is also good. But I can't explain why I always find a better 
 game to play after a couple of days. Still I'll return to it and play a couple of chapters. The 
 story is good and I'd like to see the end of it but I don't feel attached as I should be to my 
 men. In fact, I don't feel like I'm the Commanding officer as it should be. My Sergent seems to 
 do all the job for me and because the caracter representing you is always saying that he didn't 
 asked for this to happen, you feel like you're a looser as a unit commandant. Ok I'm not finished 
 with this game so I might find something interesting along the way but after 6 months, I know that 
 I should have been finished with it if it was that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ennt1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 7, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I mean this game has it all swearing, blood and gore. Thats waht I call i real war game because 
 u often see only blood and little swearing in other war games but this one is really cool. You 
 finally commande men and go through dangerous messions. The game is just realistic its what really 
 happened in ww2 and how men dealed with out numbering. Younger kids should really stay away from 
 this game because it would b to tense for them. But really an ok game to play once and a while. 
 If u want realistic war games then I really reccomened this game to you. I would like to see them 
 make a mission on D-day that would be really really cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0s2004
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:13 am PT
Review:  When you consider playing WWII game there were 2 obvious games, Call of Duty & Medal of Honor but 
 both of em felt arcade & like Quake or Unreal in WWII environment. Now comes BIA : Road to Hill 
 30, a game that offers all the intense action & the tension of being a squad leader which is something 
 very rare in a WWII game.
  
  Graphically it's very well done, sound is just what u expect from a WWII game.
  The length is 
 good enough for a shooter & it has some unlockable content if u wanna play thru again.
  
  You have access to 2 team which can be ordered separately. Commands to give range from supressing 
 fire to assault or take cover. The awareness view let's u analyze the surrounding to find the best 
 cover or flanking position.
  
  This one's a must buy for FPS fans, newcomers should try it as well but it's not a very easy game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 23, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  This squad-based shooter impressed me from my first look to the game. Well, actually it is not 
 just squad-based shooter; in this game we can see an aspects of action-oriented games. 
  Thats why this game makes feel us differently regard to squad-based shooters. Design of game has 
 been done with high quality. Graphics makes us fell right in that time when squad of brave soldiers 
 were fighting against nazi troops and defending whole humanity from destruction and cutting head 
 of ugly snake that wants to rule the roost in the world. 
  With out any doubt we are taking the role of one of this brave soldiers and starting to fight against 
 well prepared and well equipped army of that time. 
  
  Arsenal in the game a bit poor I would say may be I didnt use too much various weapons. However 
 to fight your enemies you will need to be a bit cost conscious regard to the ammo and know exact 
 way of usage of weapons in particularly situations.
  This game is worth to playing and you will enjoy it if you like action mixed squad based shooters.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reddington17
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  One thing I really like about Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30 [BIA] is the innovative gameplay. 
 This is very different from either Call of Duty [CoD] games and all the Medal of Honor [MoH ] games. 
 Those games stick you in World War II and let you win the war all by your lonesome. 
  
  BIA on the other hand requires you to play nice. If you can't use your squads properly you won't 
 get very far. In BIA if you whip out your faithful Thompson and charge an enemy position you will 
 have to restart very quickly. No matter how good you were at Quake, CoD and MoH, you cannot beat 
 this game alone. 
  
  First of all the enemy won't charge you in a nice straight line. Almost every enemy squad you encounter 
 in this game will be hunkered down behind some cover. The levels are designed so you can maneuver 
 your squads around the enemies and destroy them with your Assault Team. 
  
  If you've played all the other World War II sims out there it'd be a wise decision to give BIA 
 a try. It's a solid game that changes the shooter formula just enough to make it unique without 
 losing the ease of play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The game is really great because it allows the players to take command of different troops and 
 tell them what to do on the battlefield. The game has really good controls and to the first person 
 mechanics are really up to date and fun. 
  
  Graphics:
  The game is graphically stunning and adds great environmental graphics and character models. The 
 framerate is pretty good, but is hard to judge because it all depends on how much ram you have 
 on your computer. 
  
  Sound:
  The game has very good sound effects and very good music. The game really has great music to make 
 the game experience a great one. 
  
  Value;
  The game is fun to play and has a lot of levels and good multiplayer. The game sometimes gets boring 
 after having to tell what the troops have to do all the time. 
  
  I would get this game if you are a fan of FPS and WW2 game -- because it is the complete package. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breshpe
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  When I played Brother`s in Arms Road To Hill 30, I was disappointed because I expected a much more 
 from this game. The history of the main character, all his squad, I liked that because very few games 
 pay a lot of attention to the human sector of the team, Baker is nervous of taking ride of the hole 
 team and you can see how the different squad mates are afraid , they argue, etc.
  I didn`t like too much the graphics of the game, and some of the first battles are too small , how 
 can you secure a town with 4 or 3 soldiers and a tank?. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razipagazi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  i want to begin with a little thing before i"ll start writing.... THIS GAME IS AMAZING! 
  
  The weapons in the game are reactting great, every weapon sounds totally different and there design 
 is beautiful. i personlly liked the sniper very much!!
  it's SO FUN shooting nazi's like that! :)
  
  The sounds effect's, the sound track and the voice 
 acting is incredible.
  especially the mortors before they fall and smash the ground.
  
  all the invirmets looks awesome. 
  
  the graphics are good, but looking to much like a painting, 
 the characters looking great!
  
  to command a unit is so easy! that's one of the great things in the game!
  
  and the gameplay 
 is the BEST thing in the game!!!! suppress, flank KILL! 
  you can choose a different strategy's for every battle!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigammer915
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Now we have all had a WWII game sometime but this is much different with realstic tactics in surpression, 
 flanking, and finishing the enemy, the graphics are good and the sound is pretty good too. You 
 may say well using the same tactics all the time may be boring but you have to defend positions, 
 go with tanks, etc. Not to mention this game has a lengthy campaigan and a great multiplayer game 
 as well. One flaw with this game is that alot of the times the Germans are a little bit dumb and 
 they will accidentally stick their butt out or something for you to shoot at but since you don't 
 have a crosshair (which can be toggled on) you must look down your iron sights which still shakes 
 and after you fire at them and miss to much they will notice and move so it isn't that bad of a 
 flaw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffflol
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 1, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  even if the game takes a litle bit to finish it is still wort it. though i wish more people played 
 it online so i can play against them. if you want to go against me e-mail me at books_12345@yahoo. com 
 and i will probably accept your challenge. the game takes time to get used to but once you get 
 the hang of it its very easy. i recomend you rent the game before you buy it. you might finish 
 the game in the time you rent it unless you want to play against me i suggest you rent it. this 
 game has very realistic sounds and the graphics are very good. good luck in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  There have been a lot of WWII games. In fact, it is almost becoming ridiculous how many WWII games 
 there are. So when Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30 was announced, promising a new tactical squad-based 
 element, it sounded like this genre may be brought back to life. BiA is a fun game with a unique 
 approach, but it doesn't stray far from that approach and actually starts to get pretty boring. 
 Commanding six or seven other soldiers is fun and realistic, but the fun wears off. This game obviously 
 tried to go for a realistic and emotional storyline. It is realistic, but it's also pretty cheesy 
 and doesn't make you feel the way a WWII movie, like Band of Brothers, would. Also, the poetic 
 Sgt. Baker is really annoying. The graphics in this game are good and bad. Character models look 
 great and so do guns. The environments are all pretty good, although some are a bit bland. However, 
 some things you watch your comrades do are pretty ugly, like walking up stairs. The sounds in this 
 game are really good. All the guns and explosions sound great, the voice acting is good, and the 
 music is good. The game does last for a pretty long while, which could be good, but since Gearbox 
 doesn't stray from the same suppress and flank routine, ever, it gets pretty dull. I doubt suppressing 
 and flanking Nazis in the real war ever got dull. BiA is definitely a good game, but there's too 
 little action and too much repetition for it to be great. Get Call of Duty instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_popwwe
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 25, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  remember reading press releases a while back about this game that called it the most realistic 
 WWII shooter to come out this year. Granted, you should believe press releases as much as pre-election 
 promises by the candidates, but this one seemed to have some truth to it. As war games go, BiA 
 probably depicts infantry combat in the most plausible and realistic manner: this game is not about 
 mindlessly charging tons of enemies, it's about tactics, first and foremost. Assessing the situation, 
 prioritizing the threats and then using military maneuvers to outsmart the enemy. I'm no military 
 expert but I've discovered one very important thing while playing this game. Retreating is your 
 friend. No, I'm not French (Then explain that smell -Ed) , but seriously, if you want to get your 
 ass to your next objective (and in one piece) , you will have to retreat at some point in order 
 to regroup and better asses the situation on the battlefield. Brothers in Arms allows you to do 
 that. It allows you to play as an actual squad-leader, the guy who has to make tough snap decisions 
 on the battlefield to keep himself and his squadmates alive.
  
  That is possibly the greatest strength of this game and that is what makes it unique. It allows 
 it stand out amongst the rest of the WWII shooter crop. Big props to Gearbox for trying to innovate 
 in a genre that has been worked over more than Michael Jackson's face (short of removing some critical 
 parts of that face, you just can't innovate any more) .
  
  The ability to command your squad (and eventually, even several squads and armored units) is essentially 
 made possible by the excellent and very, very intuitive interface, which allows for seamless command 
 during tough battles and some solid squad AI. But the interface is what really makes this new on-field 
 command system so unique and enjoyable. I wish more shooters would use it from now on. There are 
 a number of details that Gearbox included, trying to make sure that you don't go 'Rambo' on the 
 enemy, like making the aiming much harder with the optional exclusion of the crosshair. Another 
 thing is that when you aim down the iron sight, your hand will move under the weight of the weapon 
 and you won't be able to aim with too much accuracy. If it so happens that the enemy is behind 
 good cover, it'll make it that much harder for you to 'solo' the entire mission. Naturally, the 
 idea in Brothers in Arms is to have you rely on your squadmates' suppressive fire and flanking 
 maneuvers rather than your own skill as a gamer. The game even includes a tactical overview screen 
 where you are allowed to better assess the battlefield from a birds eye view. I must say though, 
 I've rarely (if ever) used this option. An experienced FPS player will manage to take out the enemy 
 even if they're popping in and out of cover, so if you're playing on the 'normal' level of difficulty 
 (there are also two higher levels of difficulty: 'difficult' and an unlockable 'authentic' mode) , 
 be forewarned that 'Rambo' tactics might actually work. And this can cause some problems.
  
  You see, this game is far from perfect. While it features novel ideas and at times highly engaging 
 and realistic-looking combat (with special emphasis on having the player make vital snap decisions 
 mid-combat) , it also suffers from a number of things that severely diminished the suspension of 
 disbelief for me. Things like VERY restrictive level design, a few broken scripted sequences and 
 some examples of dodgy AI. In one of the missions I had my tank get stuck on a gate and it wouldn't 
 budge even though it seemed it could move without a problem. I had to defend the town from the 
 German counter-attack with just light infantry and a completely useless tank.
  
  I somehow managed to finish the mission by going 'Rambo' style and jumping on the back of a German 
 Tiger tank, but how often would that work in real life? I am *not* Sylvester Stallone (Thank goodness 
 -Ed) . Also, certain scripted sequences wouldn't trigger. In the next mission I had to destroy an 
 anti-tank gun that was heavily defended with German machine gun nests. I did, I blew it up with 
 explosives and  nothing happened. I had to reload the chapter.
  
  For all these reasons, and even though that Brothers in Arms is very fun and highly original when 
 it's working right, the game felt a lot more disjointed and less enjoyable than Call of Duty. Bear 
 in mind here that it's not completely fair to compare the two titles, as they aim to achieve different 
 gameplay experiences (which they do in fact) , but as far as just enjoying a WWII shooter goes, 
 I had a lot more fun playing Call of Duty. And it was a much, much bigger adrenaline rush.
  
  From a technical standpoint Gearbox has done a really good job on the game. The engine is not 
 by any means spectacular but it gets the job done nicely, and I especially like how muddy water 
 looks like muddy water and not a clear crystal pond in the middle of a dirt road. Character animation 
 can seem a bit stiff at times, but this is not a glaring drawback as it's not that noticeable.
 
  
  The musical score is so reminiscent of Call of Duty that I couldn't tell the two apart. The music 
 enhances this somewhat nostalgic and contemplative feel to the narrative, which is, I guess, supposed 
 to have us sympathize with the main character and his buddies. In those regards, Brothers in Arms 
 is not 'Saving Private Ryan.' Personally, I couldn't help but feel that the dialogue was a bit 
 sappy, but that's just me I guess.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmaginnis
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 21, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure what the appeal of this game is. There are other better squad-based tactics sims out 
 there. The weapons sound fake, weak and lack punch; and god forbid you should die in combat - you'll 
 be waiting two minutes or more for a reload. 
  
  Choppy graphics and some completely unrealistic points (soldiers infinitely respawning at certian 
 points; one of your buddies down? don't worry, he'll be alive again at the beginning of the next 
 mission) .
  
  There is no health in this game - you simply suddenly regain full health at the beginning of the 
 next mission. Couple this with a stupid console-style checkpoint save system and you'll find yourself 
 quickly frustrated. If you take too much damage early in a mission, just sit through the hideously 
 long reload; it will be far too difficult to complete the mission if you get damaged early on.
 
  
  Another piece of crap from Ubisoft, whose quality has entered a tailspin ever since they became 
 more concerned with choking their products with the Starforce virus than paying attention to QA.
 
  
  And... c'mon... Blowing up poles in a field? Yeah... OK...
  
  Avoid this junker; if you want a decent WWII shooter, stick with the Call of Duty or Medal of Honor 
 franchises.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangsta_whizz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  A brilliant game! A master piece of game developing!
  A brilliant game! A master piece of game developing!
  A brilliant game! A master piece of game 
 developing!
  A brilliant game! A master piece of game developing!
  A brilliant game! A master piece of game developing!
  A brilliant game! A master piece of game 
 developing!
  A brilliant game! A master piece of game developing!
  A brilliant game! A master piece of game developing!
  A brilliant game! A master piece of game 
 developing!
  A brilliant game! A master piece of game developing!
  A brilliant game! A master piece of game developing!
  A brilliant game! A master piece of game 
 developing!
  A brilliant game! A master piece of game developing!
  A brilliant game! A master piece of game developing!
  A brilliant game! A master piece of game 
 developing!
  A brilliant game! A master piece of game developing!
  A brilliant game! A master piece of game developing!
  A brilliant game! A master piece of game 
 developing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 19, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  'You really get to know a man if you get to watch him die, that moment right before he realizes 
 its over, that moment his face reflects every decision he's ever made, what kind of life he led... 
 and if he regrets it."
  
  These are line spoken by not just a soldier, but a hero of war just like many others who fought 
 and sacrificed their live for this world. To me this is a powerful message expressed in this amazing 
 war game called 
  Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30.
  
  You may say already that this is a regular first person war era shooting game, however this game 
 goes much deeper than what was expect. The game Brother in Arms is a game about the true story 
 of the 101 First Airborne, during the great invasion D-day. Throughtthe eyes of the commanding 
 Sgt. Matt Baker, you command a small group of brave soldiers. Each character has a specific duty, 
 abilties, weapon and a great personality which you'll learn as you battle through WW2.
  
  The game gives you the ability to command your squad in the same manner likeGhost Recon" or 
RAINBOW SIX". Simple commands like moving out, holding a position or covering fire, are some 
 of the commands needed for your success in winning the war and for the survival of your men.. The 
 games will have the basic ww2 weapons such as the Colt 45., the Thompson, The B. A, R, the M1 Garand 
 along with other Axis Weapons. 
  
  The games realism is amazing, from the way a character to the simple facial expression, present 
 great feature to the game itself. The Sound and voicing it perfect, and the storyline is just something 
 to cry about and to remember.
  
  What makes Brother in Arms different from other, intense and hardcore War games is that it give 
 the player, ( such as yourself) to learn and to get deeper into the character you'll interact with. 
 You will laugh, you'll listen, and you may even cry for a particular character's story. Although 
 it maybe a game to some people, it still is a story of soldiers, who fought like brothers ... 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  With the extreme saturation of WWII based first-person shooters on the market, it seems unlikely 
 that a new one could cause a stir. However, Gearboxs latest instalment Brothers in Arms: Road 
 to Hill 30 seems to turn heads just enough standing firmly amongst the likes of Call of Duty or 
 Battlefield 1942. It brings a new gameplay mechanic to the fold with squad-based combat and strives 
 for a more authentic recreation within the genre. BIA can be credited with innovation to accomplish 
 its sense of realism; however, it is not certainly free of problems.
  
  The story comprises of missions seen through Matt Bakers eyes during an eight day period following 
 D-Day. He is an airborne soldier in command of thirteen men ploughing through German soldiers trying 
 to capture the town of Carentan. The story seems to be of standard fare replete with the usual 
 soldier-speak between missions and the yells and screams during battle; however, I am under the 
 impression that the missions are loosely based on actual events therefore it might have been difficult 
 to add a little more flair within the writing.
  
  The voice-acting is satisfactory as it stands between cheesy over-the-top and mundanely basic  
 which seems to have become a standard in video games in general. The music is exactly what one 
 would expect in a WWII game: a simple yet dramatic score. The graphics, on the other hand, are 
 a little more inconsistent. The trees, fields and general landscape are quite decent but the blocky 
 character models tend to take away from the overall visual experience. It suffers from that console-port 
 appearance: what PC gamers dread.
  
  The innovation seems to lie in BIAs unique gameplay, but it also seems to be the cause for some 
 concern. BIA plays like a typical FPS in which you can crouch, jump, run and shoot. But added to 
 that formula is the fact that you have a squad to command (often two consisting of a fire team, 
 an assault team, and/or a tank) , have a tactical interface, and by default, the conventional targeting 
 reticule is off forcing one to aim down the sights. Moreover, the aiming is kept purposefully inaccurate 
 to increase the tension of the firefights. The strategy is generally to have the fire team suppress 
 the enemy whilst you (alone, or with an assault team) flank them. Not many shooters have captured 
 this aspect of suppression fire as well as BIA. This is very innovative but on the flip side, there 
 are some problems associated with it. Firstly, the inaccurate aiming can be very frustrating because 
 sometimes, even if you have a clear shot at a Germans head, it will miss more often than not (especially 
 if hes suppressed) . It seems to artificially force the player to use the flanking manoeuvre. Secondly, 
 all the areas for cover look identical; moreover, there is generally only one logical place to 
 set up, and one logical path to flank. With the awareness feature, it is also extremely easy to 
 figure out. In essence, BIA is a very linear game. Lastly, the game does not have an addictive 
 quality and often the game can feel more tedious that fun.
  
  Being as linear as BIA is, I found almost no desire to replay it  even at the authentic difficulty 
 setting. Furthermore, since BIA can be completed comfortably in well less than ten hours, it seems 
 that it is not good value for the money. However, there is a strong multiplayer component to the 
 game which is good news. One thing that I have always condemned some of other squad based shooters 
  vis -- vis co-op and multiplayer features  for is that they tend to leave out the squad mechanic 
 altogether. Fortunately, this is not the case with BIA as players get to command squads against 
 each other. Its mplementation is not as polished as one would like but hopefully this formula will 
 be improved upon in upcoming titles. BIAs multiplayer tends to be more about a tactical approach 
 and less about a gung-ho attitude.
  
  BIA surprised many gamers with an innovative title amongst the most derivative of genres. It has 
 good pace for a shooter, attention to production values, and an overall presentation that feels 
 genuine. Not to mention that it also has some unique gameplay elements that will definitely influence 
 other shooters to achieve a higher standard. BIA easily earns a place amongst the best WWII games 
 ever made. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hydrolix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  This may not be the best WWII shooter out there, but I have enjoyed playing it. The story to me 
 is intense as all the characters in the game were/are real people doing real events. When a character 
 in game dies... that means they didn't make it in real life and to me that adds, tension and drama 
 to all the game's situations.
  
  My chief complaint is that it saves like a console game. You have to reach checkpoints for the 
 game to save and thus I found myself redoing some difficult parts over and over and over again. 
 I don't enjoy doing that.
  
  The sound is absolutely amazing. If you are set up with a surround sound system you will hear bullets 
 whizzing past you, explosions engulf you... its quite engrossing. 
  
  I also liked reviewing all the history stuff that is unlocked as you progress.
  
  The missions 
 do become somewhat repetitive after a while as pretty much the only useful strategy to progress 
 is to out flank the enemy over and over and over. As a result, pretty much every firefight plays 
 out very similarly. That detracts some from the intensity of the setting by causing you to mentally 
 withdraw from the game a bit.
  
  Overall, I still enjoyed it very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qulzam
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 14, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  Defending the country is not an easy task. BIA features the same, it is the game you will feel 
 the real WAR experience. Unlike FPS games like COD, MOHAA, and others are great WW2 games, but 
 BIA will really prove that it is the best and it is not a fast game, It has a system of squad, 
 which you will control to defend your homeland, they will do as you will order them, It has a good 
 story, Graphics, especially sound which really gets you in the middle of the battlefield. In this 
 game you will be named as Matt Baker, and you will have to survive and defend your homeland. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstonyr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  brother in arms is a grate game. This game is probably the most realistic games out there. the 
 game is great and if they just made it longer it would be perfect. In a way it was worth the $50 
 and in a way it was a wast of money the $50. the game was really short and easy. But over all its 
 a good game. the Graphics are one of the best in the world. But unfortunately you must have a very 
 high-tech computer to handle it. the multiplier mode is pretty lame, and kind of dom. the story 
 line is good. But the talking before you can play is very annoying, and you cant skip it. It's 
 still worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRA22554
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30 is an awesome game. Now that I've said that, let me explain why. 
 Most World War II shooters put you in scripted hallways where you go on lone-wolf Nazi hunts. In 
 Brothers in Arms, you get a chance to kill Nazis the right way. The squad action adds a depth unseen 
 in other WW II shooters. It allows you to glimpse what the real heroes of Normandy faced as they 
 put their lives on the line for their brothers in arms.
  
  Also, instead of just sending wave upon wave of mindless Nazis at you, the development team at 
 Gearbox took the time to discover how the German army really worked. They researched the hierarchy 
 of troops that battled against the 101st Airborne in France.
  
  In the end, Brothers in Arms is overflowing with military and historical extras that you unlock 
 after each mission, but it's also an exciting game which shows there was more to WW II than just 
 butchering fascists. It portrays the true struggle that the 502nd faced during its time in hell. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daxxter
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 24, 2005 7:15 am PT
Review:  I borrowed BIA from a friend and i expected some really realistic, squad-based firefights. One 
 thing that drawed my attention was that this game made itself different from others because it 
 contained a story-line. Many previous WWII-titles is just plain shooting, which doesn't really 
 entertain, only for a small amount of time. But finally BIA gives us a good view of how the men 
 "felt". 
  
  I got really exited in the beginning where you are jumping from the plane. Already at that scene 
 you expect this game to be catching and i love when beginnings are good. Sadly i discovered that 
 there was only 1 simple tactic to use: flanking. This can get really boring after only 2 or 3 firefights 
 and it makes the game annoying. Besides its provoking, that your teammates keep on shooting and 
 supressing if they're close enough. Then you have to flank and cant shoot at them, because they 
 wont stand up. 
  The games weapons are cool but when the first shot is fired i think that all of us will be dissapointed. 
 The accuracy SUCK! And it's really unrealistic that a (probarbly) well-trained sergeant cant fire 
 his weapon right. This does also, that you are really kind of depending on your squad, and that's 
 not good 'caus you can only make them do 3 things: Move, assault and supress. Yeah... yawn... Another 
 thing to mention is, that when your squadmembers are K. I. A they are suddenly revived in the next 
 level. Pretty bad! 
  
  To say something good about the game, i think that the environments are fantastic and i love the 
 way Normandy is designed and it is just so right. I also love the feeling of being in the middle 
 of the chaos and bullets fly around my ears. The weapons and missions are good (except the weapons 
 accuracy) and the length of the game is almost just as it needs to be (Maybe a mission or two too 
 long) , and it's the beginning that makes you want to finish the game, to see what happens in the 
 end. 
  The sound is fair. Nothing more to say about that.
  
  All in all i think that BIA is a good game and it IS worth playing. Still, i hope that if they 
 make more games of this type, they will improve the variety of commands and then improve the weapon 
 realism. Also, the firefights need to have some kind of "variety" in them. For example Different 
 tactics, more squad-commands and then it should be a little easier to kill the enemy (although 
 it might not be in real war, but hey, its a video game) . 
  
  In short words: Good game, but needs more variety and realism. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchebaby2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 22, 2005 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Wow, so amazing. It is insanely fun, has infinite replay value, smooth gameplay, awesome action, 
 addictive, realistic, historical, creative, some what difficult. In other words this gam ranks 
 1 - 5 in my favorite games. Kills all ww 2 games while combining strategy ,and an awesome fps. 
 It is a hybrid of colossal proportions. Forces you to master all weapons and conserve your ammo 
 like in real life. It is the king of ww2 fps's. It should has good graphics and an interesting 
 inclusion of real life scenarios that actually happened to the airborne company. So fun slaugtering 
 krauts. Die krouts die!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20648505842410216584325484843111-sonnycX
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 1:22 am PT
Review:  My great grandfather fought in the WW II and he told my grandfather how hard it was on the battlefront. 
 This game is a painful reminder of that times.
  Don't get me wrong!! This game is great!!!!!
  
  Brothers in Arms puts you in the role of Sgt. 
 Matt Baker, a real-life member of the 101st Airborne Division. The quiet, introspective thoughts 
 that Baker and his squadmates share between missions is a stark contrast to the intense, chaotic 
 battles you'll fight. Certain cutscenes, however, can get rather gory and graphic. Add that to 
 the cussing you'll hear, and you'll have a game that captures the grim reality of war.
  
  "By bringing together the best aspects of squad-based shooters with the freedom of a more action-oriented 
 game, Brothers in Arms offers a unique gameplay experience in the unlikeliest of genres: a World 
 War II shooter. The campaign is varied and lengthy enough to keep players thrilled from beginning 
 to end. There's even good incentive to play through again at higher difficulties. Combined with 
 a well-designed and thought-out multiplayer aspect, Brothers in Arms offers one of the best World 
 War II gaming experiences to date." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintapus
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 24, 2005 8:54 am PT
Review:  Die red dot scum!
  
  Gameplay: Realistic gameplay allows you to shoot red dots just like they did during WWII.
  
 
  Graphics: Realistic graphics. All objects are impervious to damage just like in real life.
  
  Sound: You can only tell your squad to do two things just like a real commander. 
  
  Value: 
 The Road to Hill 30 is a misleading title. It should be called: The Road And 100 Yards On Either 
 Side To Hill 30. I mean, it's not like the entire game takes place on the road.
  
  Tilt: Being lead around by the nose is good. That way I don't have to think about coming up with 
 any tactical solutions to problems. Duh.
  
  The Good: Shooting dots is fun!
  
  The Bad: Sometimes I get lost and confused, and wonder what to do next.
  There are too many decisions 
 to make. Such as which weapon to use or which order to issue or whether to go to the right of an 
 object or to the left.
  
  Bottom Line: Them dots is hard to kill. I line up my sights and empty my clip, but they are still 
 there! But that's good, because then I get to shoot them even more. That IS what makes a shooter 
 fun isn't it; shooting things over and over. When you shoot bad guys in other games they die and 
 then you can't shoot them any more 'cause they're dead. Kinda sad, huh? But not this game, you 
 shoot and shoot and the dots are still there for you to shoot some more. Yippeeee!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: narutofan97
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2005 10:25 am PT
Review:  this is a fun game the first time through. which is the main problem. this game is just too short. 
 there is very little replay value in the single player campaign. the multiplayer may be alright 
 but i personally didn't enjoy it too much. the good thing is while you play the game the first 
 time through you will get a blast out of it. it is very easy to controll your squad especially 
 since you can get an overhead view to plan your assault. the graphics are nice but there is a bad 
 frame rate. the sound is brilliant. overall this game is only fun the first time through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haplo699
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 1, 2005 11:56 am PT
Review:  Over the past few years there have been a number of revolutionary WW2 games released, the genesis 
 of which was occasioned by Medal of Honors transition from console shooter to PC legend. Medal 
 of Honor was upstaged by Call of Duty which maintained the fast action of MOH but added to it a 
 gritty realness. 
  
  Following this natural progression comes Brothers in Arms, heavily influenced by the TV show Band 
 of Brothers it casts you as a member of parachute regiment bailing out into Europe during the D-Day 
 invasion. I was fully prepared for more of the same, and hey dont get me wrong there is nothing 
 wrong with that, but I was wrong and how. 
  
  If you attempt to play this game as a traditional WW2 shooter the only thing youll get is frustrated. 
 In the default mode there is not even a crosshairs for your weapon, the only way to ensure semi-accurate 
 shooting is to aim through the gun sight. This is the first WW2 shooter that actually makes you 
 rely on your squad mates. The play is a lot more tactical than it predecessors, the Germans take 
 cover and only pop out to fire at you, you can use your team to suppress the Nazis while you sneak 
 around and flank them. To this end the game provides you with a tactical map which allows you an 
 overview over the immediate area so you can plot your attack on enemy positions. Add to this the 
 fact there are no health packs to pick up and no conveniently place ammo boxes which adds to the 
 realism. This is probably the games greatest strength and biggest failing. Whilst WW2 officinados 
 will lap up the authenticity and realism, the casual gamer raised on Medal of Honor type games 
 will almost certainly turn their nose up, which is a real shame. Because they will be missing out 
 on a good game, that works your brain as well as trigger finger. 
  
  The graphics are good but not great, the sounds are all loud and authentic with each weapon feeling 
 substantial. Nothing ground breaking in the technology department, the selling point of this game 
 is obviously the more tactical play, the boy and girls at Gearbox and Ubisoft should be applauded 
 for this brave step forward. Brave being the operative word when its highly likely the tactical 
 play will turn away a large chunk of the established fan base for this genre. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sskkmiller
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2005 11:40 am PT
Review:  This game kicks some serious butt! I can't wait for the next one. My grandfather was actually in 
 the 502nd Paratroopers Screaming Eagles and was in Band of Brothers. This game felt very similar 
 to Band of Brothers and showed me one of the most realistic WWII experiences ever. It felt like 
 I was Matt Baker. The sound was amazing, the graphics were great, the gameplay felt pretty smooth, 
 (then again, my computer sucks) and overall, it deserves a 9.4 rating out of 10. If you like WWII 
 and also like Real Time Strategy games like AOM or Empire Earth then definatley give this game 
 a shot. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: midfingr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 6:44 pm PT
Review:  A road off the beaten path. Brothers In Arms: Road to Hill 30 is a really cool game. I really like 
 the tactics that you can deploy in this game. Sure, it's not a 3D shooter in the classic sense, 
 but that's what I like about it. This game has a lot of replay value for me; there are many different 
 ways to complete an objective and the AI is some of the best I've seen. It reminds me of a cross 
 between Splinter Cell and Call of Duty, where you can either aggressively attack the enemy or use 
 the AI to attack, while you supply suppressing fire. Another thing that stands out is that there's 
 no cross hair. This adds some realism to the game.
  
  Ubisoft always seems to add unique features to the games they produce. Far Cry, Splinter Cell, 
 Prince of Persia, among many other titles are all so original. BIA is no exception. Good voice 
 acting rounds out the game. Along with some great (and sometimes funny) action sequence dialog.
 
  
  But as with all games, BIA isn't perfect. I would've liked to have seen a better save system. Maybe 
 a quick save or better access to checkpoints within the chapters. Replaying a chapter can be a 
 little frustrating when you have to wait for the characters finish their dialog before you start 
 a mission. I know you can skip sequences, but I would like to be able to jump to a mission after 
 completing it.
  
  Overall this is an excellent title and look forward to other titles from Ubisoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pms81350
Rating: 3.1
Date: Oct 29, 2005 7:50 pm PT
Review:  After playing BIA I felt like my eyesight was failing me or some other malady.
  Repeatedly shooting someone at point blank range in the head with no 
  results is even a bit 
 much for me. To prove it I Googled an invisible cheat
  and started 4 different levels and shot several bad guys in the head at
  point blank range and 
 all they did was run and hide. I can suspend my belief as well as the next guy but... damn. Terribly 
 innacurate and a bit too
  much of the rat maze effect for me. Not very much fun being funneled in one direction costantly. Other 
 than that, I am still trying to find something about it to recommend. I do not believe I will be 
 successful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmj
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 11:23 am PT
Review:  This game is nothing like a real military game "OPERATION FLASH POINT" got love that u can, t go 
 places! I, m getting sick of linear games yawn! ! GAME DEVELOPERS BELIEVE THAT WE DON, T HAVE ENOUGH 
 GREY MATTER TO THINK FOR OUR SELVES SO WE NEED to be lead around by our hands DOWN A PATH! YAWN 
 BURP!
  
  Where is OPERATION FLASHPOINT 2 dambit ALMOST 3 YEARS WAITING FOR THIS !??
  Any way washed out graphics your ai are some of the worst shots that came out of boot camp not 
 to mention that u need to be 25 feet away from enemy to shoot them your self! even with the sniper 
 rifle! So need less to say I found myself having the team suppress as I RAMBOed in and just spray 
 ed and preyed the nest which works 90% of the time with little damage! All in all it was a fun 
 game to waste a rainy day playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mEtAL_t0ast
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:38 pm PT
Review:  its hard to believe that the people at Gearbox could merge to great types of gameplay into one 
 awesome WWII game. Brothes In Arm: Road to Hill 30 is a cobination of first-person shooting and 
 tactical gameplay. You command up to three soldiers at a time. Your ability to lead them is crutial 
 to your their survival. The realism in this game is amasing. There is no crosshair, meaning you 
 always have to center your weapon in order to make accurate shots. Gunshots are realistic and satisfing. The 
 only problem is that you die way to easy, and you have to constantly have to search for cover. 
 This is a beautiful and amazing game that should be bught immeditally.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: avenger1212
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 18, 2005 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This game has a few good points to it. It has a fairly mature story line, good graphics, and a 
 fairly intuative simple squad combat system. The game also has its bad points. Shooting Nazi soldiers 
 has never been so frustrating. To beat a horse that if not dead is in mortal danger of expiering, 
 I must agree that you can unload a clip at an enemy and hit nothing, unless it's the guy standing 
 100 yards behind him, which you hit only by accident. Either your character needs to see an optomitrist, 
 or the developers need to lay off the "realistic" aiming system.
  
  I'm glad I played the game, yet I'm also glad I only paid 20 bucks for it. In any case, I am disappointed 
 it got such high remarks by this organizations critics. It's a mediocre FPS at best, and only a 
 good WWII shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApocalypseBK
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 13, 2005 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Squad combat is the name of the game here and thats all good with me. As a massive WW2 and FPS 
 fan this game had me all excited. Im a big COD/UO fan so obviously it needed to go some way to 
 beat that but i was hoping this one would give it a run for its money. It did.... for about ten 
 minutes and the i realised this game was somewhat limited.
  
  The game starts out great, the jump into normandy is done well with some nice graphics and such, 
 and it actualy immerses you into war torn france 1942 with an atmospheric opening, but somehow 
 as the missions progress you fell less and less like your actualy there, maps limit you movement 
 massivley, small walls stop you from taking shortcuts and somehow the maps feel fake... like your 
 on a bad movie set or something. the fact that all the combat is based around small squad 'scuffles' 
 rather than battles means that the game lossed a feeling of authentisity. I mean you involved in 
 the taking of the town Carenten, this was a large opperation yet you lead six men in to a few seperate 
 fights with small squads of german troops and a couple of tanks? wheres the rest of the Army and 
 where the hell have all the germans gone!?
  
  Also the squad tactics get repetetive, its nice to be using authentic tactics but a little pointless 
 if they aren't used back on you. Germans will never move from cover leaving you to fix and flank 
 them at will, every situation is the same, you come across a few german troops and/or an Mg 42 
 or tank, you fix them by laying suppressing fire then you flank em and lay them out. After a few 
 missions it becomes tiresome, not becasue the concept doesnt work but because the enemy seems to 
 have no knowledge of such tactics them selves, they never do it to you! You can order you men to 
 suppress the enemy, walk out the room make a cup of coffee, come back and your troops are still 
 unloading at a bunch of Germans hidden behind a wall.
  
  The game tries to hard with the squad 'brotherhood' feeling, it simply dosent make it happen, your 
 charecters thoughts between missions are a little out of pointless and you squad mates become expendable 
 drones rather than treasured 'Brothers in arms' due to the fact they respawn every level even if 
 they die.
  
  The game teeters on the edge of being something, they had a great idea and concept and wanted to 
 present it like a band of brothers type thing, and it almost works..... but somehow it fails...... a 
 bit like Adolfs plans to take over the world it gets of on the right foot... then falls flat on 
 its face by trying to do to much at once and loosing some of that much needed attention to detail.
 
  
  Call of duty replicated the chaos of battle and brotherhood feeling much better depite being more 
 'arcade' in its style. The game also makes conventional fighting from behind cover near impossible, 
 you aiming is litrally impossible, you have to be withing 10 feet of a guy to kill him and he'll 
 have to be totally exposed.
  
  Im not going to totaly slag this game off though, its a nice change of pace and offers a very different 
 feel, the physics system works well enough on bodies and the deaths etc. but overall the game lacks 
 a few things, not least of all atmosphere.... it really had potential but failed to be all that 
 it could. Worth a look though, some people may really like it but on the whole this game suffers 
 from repetetive and over used gameplay, a lack of atmosphere and simply cannot compete with COD/UO
 
  
  Thinking of buying this game?....... my advice: wait for COD2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homerjohnston
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 10, 2005 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game expecting the same thing as MOHAA or COD but was disappointed with it greatly. 
 First the idea of team commands and controls is pretty neat. It takes some getting used to but 
 that's just because it's new. It starts out pretty good, but just goes downhill after that. Once 
 you can start playing the game you notice that you can't hit a darn thing with your rifle or pistol. 
 I realize that they tried to add some realism to the by making it more difficult to shoot and such 
 (I do go shooting and know that you can't be as steady as MOHAA shows or COD even) but this guy 
 is ridiculous. I have tried making shots not more than 25 yards with a rifle and he misses every 
 time. The military trains at 25 yards with pistol. Rifles are 100 off hand, 200 kneeling and 500 
 yards prone. A far cry from what this "soldier" can do. I realize that they wanted to make the 
 flanking a large part of the game play but when someone's head is sticking over a sandbag at 20 
 yards, you should be able to hit that kneeling with a rifle, a pistol missing at that distance 
 is understandable but a rifle?
  
  The actual physics of the game is also quite skewed from real world. Shooting a man at 5 ft with 
 a .45 in the face would kill him, or if he is really lucky he might last for a little while. But 
 not so in this game, the should be headless man is still shooting at you totally oblivious to what 
 just happened. 
  
  Characters are not well developed either. I remember when playing MOHAA it was a big deal to lose 
 a guy, but in this game it's not. They will just respawn in the next level. Plus the use of profanity 
 to make the characters more realistic does nothing more than make you want to shoot your own guys.
 
  
  The game is easier in terms of missions than most, but the weapons make it one of the hardest.
 
  
  Besides these complaints if you can make it through power to you, but MOHAA and COD are still a 
 much better buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srickert12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 27, 2005 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic. It well very well designed. It comes on DVD which provides great graphics 
 and cut scenes. The video in the game is very good and true to fact. The fact that the game was 
 based on a true story made it even more interesting to me. The sound was excellent. They used the 
 appropriate language for what these men were going through. This game definitely isn't for children. 
 It's very challenging and fun to play. I got many hours of enjoyment out of it. It is a squad based 
 game. You cant expect to be super soldier and beat this game without using your team. They made 
 the user interface very simple, but effective. The extra content provided with the game is very 
 interesting if you are interested in history. Teamwork is required to achieve your objectives and 
 complete the missions. The characters in the game were well thought out and the AI in this game 
 was actually intelligent. Your soldiers on your team were smart and actually shot at enemies while 
 moving into a position you instructed them to. This game is a very well designed strategy based 
 first person shooter. I would recommend this game to anyone who loves history and a good challenge. 
 The only thing I didnt like is when you shoot a dead person the bullet acts as if nothing is there. 
 Also when you are talking to your squad or being talked to you cannot move from where you are standing. 
 The graphics werent the best I have seen, but they were pretty good. Well worth the money in my 
 opinion. A lot of games like this can easily loose the interest of the player, but this one keeps 
 you on the edge of your seat and wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:36 am PT
Review:  The graphics in other World War 2 games has been very clear and sharp, and I must say that those 
 graphics doesn't fit the war genre that well. Brothers in Arms (BiA) has some dirt and grain to 
 the whole look, and it lookes much more realistic than other war games out there. The animations 
 are also very good, and especially the character models are very good, they really look great. 
 There is only one minor flaw in the graphics, and that's the lip-sync on your brothers in arms. 
 It just doesn't look convinsing when someone is talking. But hey, everything else about the graphics 
 are great, so you won't even bother noticing.
  
  The sounds in BiA are awesome. The fact that the patriotic music is only in the menu and not while 
 you play is pretty saticfying. There is no music playing in the background while playing Brothers 
 in Arms. This may come as a surprice for big fans of games like Call of Duty where the music creates 
 a very unike fealing. But without the music the thing becomes much more realistic, and you'll just 
 sit there listening after suspicious sounds and so on, and it works very well. The voice-overs 
 are allright. They sometimes suffers for bad acting and so on, but in overall it's good. The sound 
 effects on the other hand is brilliant. They sound is very much alive, and together with shouting 
 soldiers and grenade explosions the whole experience becomes very sharp and realistic.
  
  BiA features a fantastic gameplay unlike anything else. The whole game kind of builds around the 
 fact that they are brothers in arms. So if a man goes down, it's kind of sad, and you can hear 
 you character (Sgt. Baker) getting frustrated and so on later in the game. This is actually one 
 of the few things that the game doesn't do that well. It kind of gets a bit weird when we're supposed 
 to get sad because an AI guy "dies", but it works just okay really, it's not a minus or anything. 
 The gameplay in BiA is, like said before, fantastic. It's very realistic and the fact that your 
 controlling up to two teams around on the battlefield works brilliantly. Your dead without them, 
 and you're the one who's got to keep them alive by giving them the correct commands. The commands 
 are very easy to understand, but pretty hard to manage 100 percent. You have to surpress the enemy, 
 and flank them. And I can asure you that this gets pretty tough on the later missions. You also 
 have the Situational Awareness View which allows you to look over the battlefield from a strategic 
 view (like bird perspective) . This allows you to see where the enemies are, and where you are of 
 course. This helps you to think about the situation and makes it easier to know where to make your 
 teams go and so on. Another thing that I love about this game is that it's almost 100% autentic 
 to how the real thing was. The environments, weapons, tactics, and missions has been studied by 
 Gearsoft to look as autentic as possible, and this comes as a big pluss. There are so many things 
 about the game that I like. I can't mention them all, so I'll just say that this game is brilliant 
 and I can recommend every World War or FPS fan to try it out.
  
  +
  The game is very much like how it was on Normandy on D-day and the following days. The graphics 
 are great. The sounds are very realistic. The Situational Awareness View is brilliant. The tactics 
 are very easy, though very hard to manage 100%. The difficulty level of the game is high. You learn 
 a lot about the D-day and World War 2, believe me.
  
  -
  The lip-sync is pretty lifeless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fullmetalbullet
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2005 5:38 am PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms provides a breath of fresh air into the WWII FPS genre. Replace the corridor based 
 level designs you'd find in Call of Duty and replace it with authentic battlefields which look 
 like they were ripped from your history textbook and placed into a video game. 
  
  Game play: The squad tactics add another dimension to the game, instead of being guided along and 
 mowing Germans like you were in a shooting gallery, now you can put your squad tactics to the test 
 in a some what open battlefield. Use your fire team to lay a base of fire as you take your assault 
 team along with you to flank the enemy and kill them.. Nothing more satisfying than having to work 
 for your kill rather than going at it alone like in past WWII games. And in some missions a tank 
 replaces one of your teams, and trust me; that can be a blast. What makes it even better is that 
 the squad mechanics are easy to use... Just drag and point..... Voila! 
  
  Granted, there could be some issues with the squad commands (more specifically, your friendly a. i.) . 
 There are some pathing issues, and sometimes they would take cover in front of a wall instead of 
 behind it. But those are in rare occasions. And overall, the friendly a. i. are highly intelligent; 
 and do a lot of killing. The enemy a. i. is overall pretty decent, they are better than most games 
 but not exactly what Gearbox promised, only in a couple missions did the enemy try to flank me.
 
  
  Another element of game play that further separates Brothers in Arms from the competition is the 
 aiming. There is weapon sway, which some might say is unrealistic.. But then again the weapon sway 
 allows the firefights to last longer AND adds the element of fear and confusion into the game... Sure 
 a lot of you weapon experts have fired rifles in a shooting range, but have you done it in a close 
 quarter, combat firefight? Didn't think so.
  
  Graphics: Brothers in Arms graphics are not too bad, the textures definitely could have needed 
 work, but then again BIA uses the Unreal engine -- there's only so much you can do with it. But besides 
 the textures, the graphics are great. It really feels and looks like you're in Normandy, 1944. 
 You can even see towns in the far off distance, over the horizon. 
  
  And not only that, the character faces have great detail. A lot more attention has been put into 
 the characters in BIA than all the other WWII games. Which brings me to another great aspect of 
 BIA, the storyline. Sure, this isn't Hollywood quality writing but at least Gearbox has done it. 
 You have Legget, who is the coward character you tries to redeem himself at the end. Then you have 
 two buddies Allen and Garnett, who serve as the comic relief in BIA. When I think more about it, 
 the squad in BIA sometimes reminds me of the characters from the classic WWII television series 
 "Combat!".
  
  Sound: Let me just say this about the sound in Brothers in Arms.... Best sound in an FPS yet.. The 
 explosion sounds from grenades and mortars are marvelous. The weapon sounds are very authentic (well 
 most of them are, but I'll save that for another occasion) . 
  
  But there is also a downside to some of the sound in BIA, for one.. the lip syncing needed a lot 
 of work. Sometimes a character's lips would appear to be talking in a normal tone, but the sound 
 would be much louder -- the actor would be screaming his lines. 
  
  Single player Campaign: The Single player campaign in Brothers in Arms is AMAZING, and worth the 
 buy alone. 
  
  You play as Sgt. Matt Baker during the first 8 days of the Normandy invasion as a paratrooper in 
 the 101st Airborne. Apparently, your character wasn't ready to be squad leader. Which makes sense 
 considering the player (you) is getting used to the squad tactics at the same time. Anyways, because 
 of the mis drops you travel through the Normandy countryside gathering men as you go along. You 
 liberate town by town... From Securing a Normandy beach head, to Vierville, St. Come Du Mont, then 
 on to Carentan, and then grand finale -- Hill 30; which is on the outskirts of Carentan. 
  
  One complaint from players is the fact that if your men die, they come back for the next mission. 
 I have absolutely no problem with this for the following reasons...
  
  1) If a character dies whose important to the story and doesn't return, it only eliminates the 
 storyline.
  
  2) People sometimes say "Why don't they just get replacement soldiers instead of bringing these 
 guys back from the dead?" My answer to that is that there WERE NO REPLACEMENTS at squad level, 
 youre squad can be down to 4 men and they wouldn't replace them UNTIL they got back to England.
 
  
  3) A solution to all this is to pretend that your squad mates get wounded instead of being dead. 
 
  
  The replay value of SP is very high, after you complete a mission you unlock an "extra" that corresponds 
 to that mission. And what makes it even better is that there are different extras for each difficulty 
 level. So after you beat the game on easy, you can move on to finish the game on normal to unlock 
 more extras, then on to difficult exc..
  
  Multi player: This is where Brothers in Arms loses most of it's points. The lobby system is lacking, 
 there are no dedicated servers, playing off Ubi. com servers really hurts the MP in BIA. 
  
  The Multi player is up to 2 v 2 squad combat with up to 10 maps. Each player gets his own squad 
 of a. i. to command against his opponent's, who also have their own squad of a. i. --One team has 
 to complete an objective (i. e. plant explosives on a gun while the other team defends) . These are 
 timed matches where you have a limited amount of reinforcements if your squad gets killed. Multi 
 player can be fun for a while, but playing the same old maps can get a bit repetitive.
  
  
  Overall: Brothers in Arms provides a breath of fresh air into the WWII FPS genre. Road to Hill 
 30 is the first in the franchise; And I guarantee you that it will only get better from here. Move 
 over Call of Duty, it looks like you have some stiff competition.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogiants46
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 18, 2005 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by answering the question above. Is this the best WWII shooter ever? In my opinion, 
 this is, without question, the best WWII shooter ever, and possibly the best shooter to ever come 
 to console, WWII or not. Gearbox and Ubisoft teamed up for an accurate re-creation of the US 101 
 st Airborne's historic drop into Normandy on June 6, 1944 also known as D-Day. Every town was accurately 
 re-created for this historic epic which in total lasted only 8 days, but felt like a year.
  
  Lets start with graphics. These would have to be some of the very best graphics to ever dawn 
 the X-Box and in many regards compete with some of the PC games. With out a few graphical bugs, 
 the graphics could have been awarded a 10 instead of the 9. I believe that this games strongest 
 point is of course its sound. The gunfire sounds amazing, and then with the added buzzing bullets 
 and mortars in the foreground and back ground the sounds in games do not get much better than this.
 
  
  In closing I believe this could very well be the best WWII shooter ever, with its advanced graphics 
 and superb sound, this should be more than enough reason to buy the game, right? Absolutely but 
 with the addition of a fun and addictive multi-player component, the game is only that much. In 
 addtion to the good graphics and sound, you get some very solid ememy AI. Using cover and fire 
 tatics will allow you to get the upper hand on your enemies, but sometimes, they will do the same, 
 making it very hard to get that upperhand duing battles. So if you are looking for something that 
 you don't see everyday in a WWII shooter, give Brothers In Arms: Road To Hill 30 a shot, you might 
 find yourself as addicted as I am. Congrats Ubisoft and Gearbox on your amazing accomplishment, 
 and I look foward to the sequel later this year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grass21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2005 12:34 am PT
Review:  With the innovative squad control system, you can now take your battle skills to a new level. There 
 is an array of World War II games on the market, but there are none like Brothers in Arms. This 
 game actually takes some strategy and skill to play. Instead of bull rushing into the enemy line 
 and expecting to kill them all, you need to rely on your squad to pin them down so you can flank 
 them and kill them. There are no med packs or instand revive hit points lying around, so once you 
 are hit you stay with the damage. Plus bullets will kill you in around 5-8 hits so you can't charge 
 blindly. There is also a view called the situational awareness view, in which you can make a decision 
 on where to safely move your men and kill the enemy. Don't be worried about not having cover because 
 the variety of environments have a plentiful amount of cover so you don't have to send your men 
 across an open field to get to the next rock. The stunning graphics and sound allow you to experience 
 Normandy first-hand. The player can also use tanks to his/her advantage. They can be commanding 
 like a squad, and some tanks have gun turrets on the top that can also be used. Don't worry about 
 running into an enemy tank in battle, if you flank the tank you can hop on it and place a grenade 
 in the hatch to kill the people inside rendering the tank useless. Also there are bazookas and 
 what not to take out tanks if you aren't into the flanking idea. In conclusion Brothers in Arms 
 is a unique WWII shooter that has an online ability so you can take your skills against other people. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_hodges
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2005 4:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is not for those that want the shoot em up type. This is no solo act, let me tell you. 
 This is a squad oriented simulation which requires teamwork and strategy, especially on the more 
 difficult levels. The campaign follows a real squad which endured one of the most harrowing WW2 
 accounts told. If you're looking for a frag fest, skip this game and buy Medal of honor or call 
 of duty. 
  
  The lack of more players supported on multiplayer is disappointing but is made up by controlling 
 a team of AI. You can play 2 v 2 human players and each player controls a squad of 3 other AI. 
 
  
  Graphically and aurally, it's an amazing presentation. It's going to require some serious hardware 
 if you want to see the nice visual so I recommend an Nvidia 6600 or better or an ATI x800 or better. 
 
  
  BIA is a great game but is limited by the fact it's just another "railed" game. However a great 
 story picks up on some of the slack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wingzro
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2005 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, I'm a WWII fan. So games like Call of Duty, Medal of Honour, etc. are the games that peak 
 my interest. Brothers in Arms is a game that is similar to those former, but differ in various 
 aspects that really stand out.
  
  Games that claim to have squad leading features fall short of being useful or practical. Half-life 
 2 for example, the squad control is a bit akward and to be honest doesn't to anything for that 
 type of gameplay. Here the squad control is highly useful and easy to perform. With a simple click, 
 hold, and move with the mouse the player is able to control his squad around the battlefield. And 
 unlike typical WWII based shooters, squad control is a must. Running through MG fire is suicide 
 in Brothers in Arms as opposed to running around the battlefield in a game like Call of Duty.
 
  
  Gearbox Software has laid claim of the games extensive authenticity of the WWII paratrooper experience. 
 Everything from the terrain to the weapons feel real because they are real. Photos of Normandy 
 during WWII were used to create the maps, so much of what you see in the game was what the soldiers 
 saw back then. The weapons look, sound and feel much like the real thing. One is reminded of recent 
 WWII movies such as Band of Brothers and Saving Private Ryan when looking and using these weapons. 
 Some may point out how in Brothers in Arms, the M1 Garand is able to be reloaded mid-clip and how 
 this is an inaccurate depiction of the weapon. Those who say that would be noted as being plainly 
 wrong and just proves they've been playing Call of Duty. Some quick searching on Google would provide 
 all the information about the M1 Garand's reloading capabilities.
  
  The graphics add nicely to the atmosphere; nothing is crisp and colourful, this is war. Although 
 some may say the graphics are a bit outdated, it still does nicely. Blood splatters on the walls 
 when you shoot the enemy, grass moves as you walk through the field, dirt will fly up in the air 
 and slowly fall from the impact of a mortar shell, and more rain will stick the the screen when 
 looking up into the sky. My only gripe graphically would be the textures. They don't seem all to 
 high res as I would have hoped. Also the game doesn't seem to support any antialiasing. So unless 
 you play at the most highest resolutions, there will be jaggies on the edges of objects.
  
  The AI fair, better than a lot of other games. The German forces don't really move or try to move 
 from cover to cover as one would think. It would have been nice at least on the harder difficulties 
 for the enemy to flank you more often. The only times the enemy AI seemed to move to try to flank 
 me seemed all too scripted. Example, my squad is laying suppressing fire on some Germans and I 
 go around an to another side of a building all by myself and the suppressed Germans follow me. 
 Now that my seem fine to some, however this is the same scenario as shown in the E3 demo. Same 
 enemies moving the same way when I take the same path. However there are times when I would take 
 another route and would be surprised by where the AI would position themselves. So I'm not too 
 sure what to make of it. There are times when the squad AI just seem very dumb. When behind some 
 cover and a grenade is thrown infront of my squadmates, the don't move out of the way. They just 
 yell, "Grenade!", and continue firing. Weirdly the explosion doesn't kill them, purhaps the waist 
 high pile of wooden crates was enough cover.
  
  Your squad members each have distinctive personalities, and Gearbox has made them so that the player 
 would be immersed into the squad and feel something towards your comrades. However finishing the 
 game and seeing some of these guys get killed, I never really felt a huge loss. Sure it sucks to 
 have a character start the mission with some light hearted conversations and later see their corpse 
 and realize they're gone for the rest of the game; but I never really got to know them all too 
 much in the first place. It's a shame that some of the content that was cut was actually stuff 
 that would have solidified a bond with your squadmates a little.
  
  Gearbox included many extras into the game that can be unlocked by finishing a certain difficulty 
 level. These extras are things like the aerial reconnaissance photos of WWII Normandy, storyboard 
 animations, general information and commentary, and some ingame cheats. Some would probably not 
 find these extras all too interesting, but it is gratifying to be able to complete the game on 
 the hardest difficulty setting; whether to unlock extras or not. And to add, the game is very hard 
 on the hardest setting; since there are to icons or crosshairs for the player to have an advantage 
 on the battlefield. It's not a very long game, however it provides a challenge that could cause 
 a mission to last for a while.
  
  Overall Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30 was well worth the buy, for me anyway. For those who 
 want a squad-based shooter, then this is the right game to go for. For those who like to Rambo-style 
 a game, then going back to Call of Duty would probably be for the better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrD3V1L
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 8, 2005 11:21 pm PT
Review:  at times very intimidating. the game seems to clone itself over the levels, and you can expect 
 what is going to happen before it does... which i found rather annoying - the graphics in the game 
 are good although not jaw dropping. the sound effects are excellent but let down by the music theme 
 they have going on. AI characters seem to not interact with eachother which i thought was bad... 
 as they acted (i know they are) too much like robots, with no soul and no life. all in all, it's 
 a good fun all-round game and it has a thumbs up from me, although much of this title could be 
 improved upon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: looksofat
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 5, 2005 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Okey, i liked the original concept of this game, fire and manouever tactics, but it is not as interesting 
 as it hears to be, nor is it well done. But we should start at the beggining. You play as Matt 
 Baker, the dude in command of 13 men if i recall correctly, all airborne troops. You drop into 
 Normandy on June 6, 1944, but are separated from your men. If i remember correctly, one of them, 
 which you never even met dies when a shell hits the plane that was transporting your unit. Immediately 
 upon landing, you can see that the graphics arent much better than those in the plane. in fact, 
 Call of Duty ran better, and looked nicer on my computer. The models are fine, weapons (some of 
 them at least) look great too, but the sorrounding terrain looks uncomplete, the buildings have 
 funny looking edges and such. Dont understand that wrong though, the graphichs are still good, 
 but i was expecting more. Sound is great, and by great i mean great. Each weapon has its own, realistic 
 sound. The dialogs in the game are amongst the best i have ever heard, and the music in the game 
 fits in it well. I was a little dissapointed with environment sound though. And all of this leads 
 to gameplay. The game covers em, the road to hill 30. I got to say, that that felt a little like 
 doom to me. All of the missions leading to the last (boss fight) mission, which is the hardest 
 in the game. But since doom was a great game, thats perhaps not so bad. During the course of the 
 mission you will have to use fire and... tactics to accomplish your tasks. The damage model is unrealistic, 
 even on enemies. You must shoot a soldier in the head twice, and that happens a lot in the game. 
 Im not speaking about helmet shots. Clean eye, neck, mouth shots from point blank range, that should 
 kill anyone instantly. Or at least incapacitate him. No, not in this game. Enemy soldiers can actually 
 kill you after that, because the aiming in this game is... hm. I got a moderation a week ago, because 
 i stated in a review that the game was ****. And thats exactly what the aiming is here. I know, 
 its hard to hit targets at long distances, but how can you miss a 20 round Thompson clip from, 
 5 feet away??? Perhaps its my bad shooting, but somehow, i perform great with games, that actually 
 have accurate aiming included. Value is, well, bad. Once you completed the SP, there is little 
 reason to go play it again if it wouldnt be for the extras. There are 4 difficulty settings and 
 when you complete a mission with a particular setting it opens an extra for you. You have to beat 
 the hardest default difficulty setting to unlock the hardest setting. 
  Overall this game is not that bad, and is actually amazing at times, but you will need a lot of 
 patience to get to those moments. Multiplayer is good, but since its not scripted i wont talk about 
 it. Its nothing like the game it was supposed to be but, it came out as an enjoyable product after 
 all. Just rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EbonDrake
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 5, 2005 4:14 am PT
Review:  I'm sorry - I got totally suckered in by the positive reviews, or I would never have bought this 
 steaming heap. For starters, it is absolutely the most linear game I have ever played. You have 
 to follow the exact route the designers intended - no deviations or alternatives are allowed. Numerous 
 times I found my way blocked by a chair, or a two foot high mound of dirt, or a clump of grass, 
 or found myself running across a shallow marsh only to be stopped by an invisible wall not five 
 feet from the other shore. Imagine my shock and chagrin when I was first killed after getting stuck 
 at an invisible barrier while trying to run in an open barn door. I've played most of the FPS/War 
 Sims out there - MoV, CoD, HD2, etc - this is by far the most linear and the least fun.
  
  Naturally the second biggest problem, or perhaps the first, is the idiotic checkpoint saves. When 
 will designers learn that PC gamers DO NOT want checkpoint saves. This game is even worse than 
 most however! When reloading, you can choose to reload chapter or reload checkpoint. Beware, on 
 a particularly brutal level (ie I had to restart more than 10 times on "easy" difficulty) , I had 
 completed the first checkpoint on the level, but got slaughtered and accidentally hit reload chapter 
 instead of reload checkpoint. Imagine my horror, when at the first of the chapter, before I could 
 do anything, it "autosaved" over my hard won checkpoint, forcing me to replay that checkpoint another 
 10 times. My fault, some might say, but the game should protect you from simple mistakes like this. 
 It's supposed to be fun right?
  
  OK graphics, decent sound, but other than that, not much going for it. I can't help but wonder 
 who the heck would give it such high ratings? I'm sorry, but I just got through playing such superb 
 games as Halflife2, Splinter Cell Chaos Theory and H&D2 Sabre Squadron. I would say that BIA couldn't 
 hold a candle to these games, but it's more like it can't hold a smoldering piece of toilet paper. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 22, 2005 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Lets see, you got your Medal of Honor, Men of Valor, Band of Brothers, Call of Duty, Company of 
 Heroes, and now Brothers in Arms. Ive got a handy suggestion for the next creative war drama 
  call your game Me Too! At least hapless consumers will be able to keep the name straight.
 
  
  Historical fidelity is probably the most unique and compelling part of Brothers in Arms: Road to 
 Hill 30s design. I cant think of another first-person shooter that literally recreates the exact 
 terrain and architecture of its setting so faithfully. For example, 61 years ago the paratroopers 
 of the 101st Airborne Division had to launch a desperate assault across an open causeway just a 
 few days following their drop into France. Instead of making a generic land bridge level, Gearbox 
 staff traveled to Normandy, toured that causeway, and returned with photos to help reconstruct 
 this authentic location in detail. The developers didnt invent a plot for Brothers in Arms. Rather, 
 they researched the units official after-action reports to model each mission. If you appreciate 
 military history, and respect the sacrifices of veterans, Brothers in Arms will give you goose 
 bumps.
  
  The graphics of Brothers in Arms are cool. The frame rate stays consistently high, a light bloom 
 effect is quite attractive, and lots of swaying vegetation marks the Normandy landscape. Nevertheless, 
 fallen enemies magically disappear into nothingness, which makes the battlefield seem antiseptic. 
 Persistent blood and guts wouldnt be gratuitous, considering Brothers in Arms strives to provide 
 a genuine war experience.
  
  The sound is amazing. Besides the cracking gunfire and roaring explosions, Brothers in Arms pulls 
 no punches with its voice actors script. Plenty of salty language brings the hard reality of soldiering 
 to gamers.
  
  So far, so good, but here comes the game-breaker: With the merciful exception of the Springfield 
 sniper rifle (used just twice, damn it) , every gun modeled in Brothers in Arms can barely hit a 
 man-sized target at the ludicrous range of two paces. You could head-butt a beach ball with greater 
 precision.
  
  I understand that even well-trained soldiers will still miss distant targets, especially in the 
 heat of battle. Theyre terrified, exhausted and under fire, while comrades scream and mortar shells 
 explode. But theres just no excuse when you plod forward to outflank suppressed enemies, crouch 
 next to them, take deliberate aim, pull the trigger... and hit nothing. Meanwhile, your alerted 
 AI opponents boldly stand and instantly plug you full of lead.
  
  Initially merely distracting, the absurdly broken targeting will gradually erode your enthusiasm 
 and suspension of disbelief. Two-thirds into the game, I input a God code to go on a killing rampage 
 -- I needed to vent frustration.
  
  If only Gearbox would release a patch to fix this problem. Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30 is 
 worth rescuing because it contains so many original and engaging aspects. It really is a shame 
 that Gearbox worked so hard to believably present Airborne operations and tactics in Normandy, 
 thereby setting it apart from a crowded FPS market, yet utterly failed to perfect the basic feature 
 crucial to every video game shooter: The shooting.
  
  By Phill "Sniper" Parker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pisc99
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2005 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Although this game has been announced, as something new and amazing, the game has some major problems 
 with adding something new to every level you passed.
  
  This game represent new and revolutionary system, where you can command you squad. The best thing 
 is that this system really works. You squad is very intelligent, and can fight for them self's. 
 Enemy reacts to your squads movements accordingly . So if you switch fom left flank to right, the 
 enemy will also switch their forces to right. Developers have made great effort to make the game 
 as realistic as possible, regarding to history facts. And for that effort you must give them the 
 big credit.
  In bonus material you can see a lot of historic and real material, like air surveillance pictures, 
 places where the battle took place in WWII.
  
  Game play is very intense, and commanding your squad is very easy, with one button you can order 
 to move, suppress, or attack. This three commands are the only ones you will need.
  
  In tutorial, you will see that you must suppress you enemy with gun fire, then flank them, and 
 finally to kill them. At this point, from my point of view, you must ask your self, if that's that. 
 
  And the answer is YES.
  Trough the game, all you have to do, is to flank the enemy, and kill them, although the surrounding 
 changes, you do the same all the time. While part of squad fires at enemy, you must ducked, flank 
 them. You don't have much of FPS in this game. You are killed momentarily if you are not in cover, 
 it's impossible to kill somebody if you don't look at your weapons sight. 
  All in all, it's very different from other WWII action games, and you have to use your brain, to 
 pass the levels. 
  
  The graphics, and the sound is very good, and standard for today's big action games.
  
  If 
 someone like more games with squad tactics, than FPS elements, the game is for them.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vozzo
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 22, 2005 1:32 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the most unique approaches of a WW2 shooter I have ever seen. The first time 
 I saw it I said to myself "Ugh not another WW2 shooter" and to add to my doubts of this game I 
 heard that it was based around Normandy! The one place in Europe that has had the most coverage 
 in the WW2 shooter genre to date. 
  
  The first part of the game was when you are in a bunker getting fired at by a machine gun. I thought 
 what is going on? I had no idea that this is how you would die and you would go back in time, ala 
 Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault. You get shot and then you fall to the ground and you see a man 
 in glasses yelling and shooting at the Germans. Then all of a sudden he gets shot in the face and 
 hits the dirt hard. That's when you realize this is not your usual game.
  
  The story really starts off in an airplane. You are going to jump over Normandy and land in the 
 field. All is going to plan but then your plane gets shot and everyone bails out of the plane as 
 fast as they can out of mass confusion. You are slowly hovering over Normandy down to the ground 
 when you hit a tree and have no idea what is going on. That is only the base of this story and 
 you will have to play it to get more.
  
  The graphics in this game are pretty good. Not astonishing but good. Character models look nice 
 and so do the large landscapes you play in. Textures are very high-quality and there wasn't any 
 frame-rate loss when I turned up the graphics all the way.
  
  The game play of this game is truly unique. Adding tactics of commanding your squad to action you 
 would find in top FPS games. A circle appears above your enemys heads. If it is red it means it 
 is not being fired upon. You can easily change that by ordering your team to fire at will on your 
 opponent. When the circle turns into fractions of it self it means that it is pinned down that 
 much. Also, when the circle turns grey the opponent will not fire on you until it is back to normal. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyf
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 2, 2005 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome! Gameplay is typical FPS and the control of your squad is very easy using 
 the right mouse button. I hate games that require you to memorize a multitude of keyboard buttons 
 to issue commands, this game is very intuitive. The graphics are excellent. Historically, the developers 
 have spent hours researching the actual after action reports, aerial reconnaissance photos and 
 they even took a field trip to the areas the missions took place. Their attention to detail and 
 commitment to making the most accurately portrayed WWII shooter to date is very evident. In my 
 opinion, they have succeeded and should be applauded for their efforts. The only downfall I could 
 find is the lack of 5.1 audio support. All in all, I highly recommend this game to any historical 
 shooter or FPS enthusiast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 2, 2005 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Right where do i start,
  
  Brothers In Arms is a tatical and in someways realistic but on the other hand it has some very 
 bad points in it. I'll start with the good points
  
  :-- Reloading the gun is way too fast its, k98 is basically 2x as fast as you would normally reload 
 it, and the same requires for the rest of the guns too.
  
  :-- The detail on the guns isnt very good either very poor even on my new graphics card Geforce 
 6800 ultra and 1gb Ram, but the sound of the gun firing is something to be please about.
  
  :-- And what i was most looking forwards to was the gore on the body, only, there is a sight to 
 be seen of gore or bullet holes in the body, that was a total let down for me : (, on the cutscene 
 there is gore but thats all, 
  
  :-- The game is rated 18 because there is just few amount of F words in and S words, so why didn't 
 they put full gore on, still gonna be a 18 isn't it LOL
  
  Anyway the good points 
  
  :-- Flanking is a great tatic to use with your squadron and even some tanks :) . The detail of the 
 outside environment is spectacular and sunlight.
  
  :-- Missions are greatly based on the real WW2 which has a buzz when you play.
  
  :-- And finally 
 there is plenty of action involved in the game shooting and covering, but in the end flanking gets 
 a wee-bit boring, thats really all you ever do, and thats only the kind of missions you really 
 get to ever do.
  
  There is a expansion coming out which might and hopefully change something in the game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commando8535
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 1, 2005 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms gives you a taste of what it must have been like for a young inexperienced Paratrooper 
 60 year ago. You play as a young Sergeant in the 101st and you take command a 12 man squad through 
 the horrors of Normandy in an attempt to push the Nazis out of Occupied France, along the way 
 you encounter hardships and a fanatical enemy. Brothers in Arms is a excellent game because it 
 shows what combat is really like without having to enlist, it also gives you a feeling that your 
 actually in Normandy during World War 2, In BIA you control 3-6 other soldiers depending on the 
 mission, the soldiers are spilt into two teams one assault (flanking team) , One suppress the way 
 you move and plan your attack will mean the life and death of the soldiers, The command interface 
 is easy to use with one click of the right mouse button and your team will move to a specific spot, 
 though at points your men wont deploy to the point you told them to go. 
  
  The AI in this game is pretty good, the Germans are extremely good shots but so are your teammates, 
 your team will automatically take cover when attacked and duck and return fire, theyll automatically 
 start firing and move to a position that offers them cover. In some missions youll be supported 
 by Tanks from the 4th ID and 2nd Armoured Division making the mission even easier and sometimes 
 even more difficult but beware however the Germans can and will destroy a tank with any chance 
 they get. 
  
  Most people complain about the tactics and how its gets boring each mission, let me tell you something 
 the tactics are authentic the fire and flank tactic was used by troops in World War 2 and even 
 now are being used, the tactics are straight out of a Military manual. 
  
  Most games are scripted meaning that certain characters just wont die (in COD it was Capt. Price, 
 the sniper, Capt. Foley, Sgt. Moody) , in Brothers in Arms thats not the case the tactics you 
 use will determine the number of your own squad mates getting injured or killed if your smart enough 
 all 3 or 6 men will come home in one piece if you like running and gunning then your whole team 
 and yourself will be coming home in a body bag (if a teammate dies in one mission hell automatically 
 be back (or else itll just be you) ) . The maps are well designed and well laid out, you have a 
 number of ways of approaching an objective but some ways are more dangerous and difficult to bypass 
 then others, its not like in other games where there is only one way to approach an objective. 
 
  
  Characters in the game is well done, each character has their own unique personality from the professional 
 Sgt. Hassay to the more quiet and poetical Legget each person has a personality that matches the 
 profiles from the war. Your character actually has the personality of Maj. Winters. Youll start 
 to care for some of the characters and youll start to develop a little bond with them. 
  
  The game also features a Special Section that has weapon profiles, After Action Reports, photos, 
 and other miscellaneous items. 
  
  There are flaws in the game but lets face it what game is perfect?, 
  
  What I would have 
 loved to see in this game or in a future release is more AI, both allied and Enemy. Have a boot 
 camp level like MOHPA.
  
  Ive spent almost five years studying about battle and battlefield tactics, Ive read countless 
 books and seen countless documentaries, Brothers in Arms is a one of a kind game, it takes you 
 back to Normandy and gives you a first hand account of what it must have been like to be a 18 or 
 20 year old soldier. It also makes you realize the intensity and brutality of war and the friendships 
 that can only be found in war. Its a documentary rolled into a video game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 29, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Controls were good. Gameplay was great. Squadron AI was actually very good there were a few times 
 that I wanted to fit in some tight corners or spaces that they wouldnt quite get to when I wanted 
 but most of the time they were very awsome. Easy Command system with just quick hit buttons made 
 the game good enough to be action packed and fast paste at the same time. This game depends on 
 your thinking cause you tend to move as fast as your think. If you can think fast you can move 
 quick and strike on hard. Great Enemy AI they flanked when they observed your squad flank trying 
 not to get flanked themselves and took cover when they saw a comrad go down. Also they worked more 
 together than most games that it seems to be every man for himself on the enemy's side. So intelligance 
 of AI played a great part in its awsome game play. Weapons were good kept of course the basics: 
 BAR, MP40, STG 44, Mauser98k, Luger, Colt 45, M1 Garand, Carbine, all those great guns we all know 
 and have come to love in our WWII shooters. This game is definalty unique and I think that even 
 though it got a 9 which is high I thought it deserved better just because this game strayed from 
 the repetetive common shooter espicially a WWII one and made it better and lots more fun. The multiplayer 
 is loads of fun with you controlling your squadron the one on one action that got so old in other 
 games came with a blasting action packed kick with full blown battles in this game which added 
 a great choatic touch to it. All in all this game was definatly a superb worth buying game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newsboy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 25, 2005 9:14 am PT
Review:  I saw the reviews for Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30 and kindly rolled my eyes like every other 
 gamer on this planet whose more than a little over the World War II genre and the pile of franchises 
 already on the market. How, I asked, could they possibly do anything different with this title 
 that might conjure up anything more than been-there-done-that boredom?
  Well they did.
  In Brothers In Arms: Road to Hill 30, you play Sgt. Matt Baker, a squad leader in the Army's 101st 
 airborne jumping into occupied France the day before the Normandy landings. The story is based 
 off actual events and the cut scenes try their best to drive this point home by giving a human 
 element to the characters you command.
  Besides excellent visuals and smooth gameplay, the game features something never before seen in 
 its genre... squad based play with you as the leader. That's right, when facing some excellent Nazi 
 AI it is no longer possible to simply run n' gun your way across maps with your guns blazing, a 
 la Medal of Honor, and expect to come out alive. Players must utilize their men to lay down some 
 fire before outmanuevering the enemy, which gets tricky when you are in charge of two squads with 
 enemies coming from all directions and Nazi tanks sighting you out.
  That element of strategy is combined with a few other spankin' new novelties to breath new life 
 into this dying genre. For instance, when you focus your sights on an enemy, the sights are unstable 
 and scoring a hit is actually quite difficult (just like real shooting.) Also, the enemies engaging 
 your team have circular indicators over their heads that are red when that enemy is unsuppressed 
 (free to fire) and see-through when that troop can't move an inch. Furthermore, when Baker is hit 
 a splash of blood sprinkles the screen from the direction of the attack, which is helpful for getting 
 out of harms way.
  Honestly, though, the best part about this game is the open-ended options one has in completing 
 a mission. Yes, you have to do the objectives and play the levels in order, but how you complete 
 each is absolutely up to you.
  Some of the controls do take some getting used to (you throw grenades with 'G' and switch weapons 
 with 'TAB') but once you have a few hours under your belt these transitions feel smooth as silk.
 
  The music is somewhat Medal of Honorish but it does instill a sense of patriotism and bloodthirsty 
 pride in you that will prepare you for about ten hours of fight time behind enemy lines with the 
 dirty Nazi scum.
  This game is absolutely worth your time, even if you are burnt out on WWII games. It is fresh, 
 user friendly and fully loaded for good times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxx_2T
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 25, 2005 6:48 am PT
Review:  While firefights are common, squad depoyment feature is innovative. But moving the the two squads 
 wasn't always as easy as pointing. You had to direct sometimes several times to get the squad or 
 armor to move. I often had to take out the enemy alone. 
  
  Story movement is engrossing, believeable. Weapon behavior was erratic at times, especially when 
 sniping. Same for certain actions requiring using the "use" key. But wasn't any thing really distracting, 
 the game was fast enough to ignore it. 
  
  This game was intended to capture the comradeship among war buddies. I never really was able to 
 discern the various characters. The weapons were not always consistent. Still the plot and drama 
 was good. I'll buy the expansion pack which you know is coming.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 20, 2005 12:39 am PT
Review:  With the extreme saturation of WWII based first-person shooters on the market, it seems unlikely 
 that a new one could cause a stir. However, Gearboxs latest instalment Brothers in Arms: Road 
 to Hill 30 seems to turn heads just enough standing firmly amongst the likes of Call of Duty or 
 Battlefield 1942. It brings a new gameplay mechanic to the fold with squad-based combat and strives 
 for a more authentic recreation within the genre. BIA can be credited with innovation to accomplish 
 its sense of realism; however, it is not certainly free of problems.
  
  The story comprises of missions seen through Matt Bakers eyes during an eight day period following 
 D-Day. He is an airborne soldier in command of thirteen men ploughing through German soldiers trying 
 to capture the town of Carentan. The story seems to be of standard fare replete with the usual 
 soldier-speak between missions and the yells and screams during battle; however, I am under the 
 impression that the missions are loosely based on actual events therefore it might have been difficult 
 to add a little more flair within the writing.
  
  The voice-acting is satisfactory as it stands between cheesy over-the-top and mundanely basic  
 which seems to have become a standard in video games in general. The music is exactly what one 
 would expect in a WWII game: a simple yet dramatic score. The graphics, on the other hand, are 
 a little more inconsistent. The trees, fields and general landscape are quite decent but the blocky 
 character models tend to take away from the overall visual experience. It suffers from that console-port 
 appearance: what PC gamers dread.
  
  The innovation seems to lie in BIAs unique gameplay, but it also seems to be the cause for some 
 concern. BIA plays like a typical FPS in which you can crouch, jump, run and shoot. But added to 
 that formula is the fact that you have a squad to command (often two consisting of a fire team, 
 an assault team, and/or a tank) , have a tactical interface, and by default, the conventional targeting 
 reticule is off forcing one to aim down the sights. Moreover, the aiming is kept purposefully inaccurate 
 to increase the tension of the firefights. The strategy is generally to have the fire team suppress 
 the enemy whilst you (alone, or with an assault team) flank them. Not many shooters have captured 
 this aspect of suppression fire as well as BIA. This is very innovative but on the flip side, there 
 are some problems associated with it. Firstly, the inaccurate aiming can be very frustrating because 
 sometimes, even if you have a clear shot at a Germans head, it will miss more often than not (especially 
 if hes suppressed) . It seems to artificially force the player to use the flanking manoeuvre. Secondly, 
 all the areas for cover look identical; moreover, there is generally only one logical place to 
 set up, and one logical path to flank. With the awareness feature, it is also extremely easy to 
 figure out. In essence, BIA is a very linear game. Lastly, the game does not have an addictive 
 quality and often the game can feel more tedious that fun.
  
  Being as linear as BIA is, I found almost no desire to replay it  even at the authentic difficulty 
 setting. Furthermore, since BIA can be completed comfortably in well less than ten hours, it seems 
 that it is not good value for the money. However, there is a strong multiplayer component to the 
 game which is good news. One thing that I have always condemned some of other squad based shooters 
  vis -- vis co-op and multiplayer features  for is that they tend to leave out the squad mechanic 
 altogether. Fortunately, this is not the case with BIA as players get to command squads against 
 each other. Its mplementation is not as polished as one would like but hopefully this formula will 
 be improved upon in upcoming titles. BIAs multiplayer tends to be more about a tactical approach 
 and less about a gung-ho attitude.
  
  BIA surprised many gamers with an innovative title amongst the most derivative of genres. It has 
 good pace for a shooter, attention to production values, and an overall presentation that feels 
 genuine. Not to mention that it also has some unique gameplay elements that will definitely influence 
 other shooters to achieve a higher standard. BIA easily earns a place amongst the best WWII games 
 ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 18, 2005 5:58 am PT
Review:  How can I say it is different? It is still 1st person and it is still based on WWII. I do have 
 to admit I was a bit coy knowing this is another game in the saturated market of WWII based games 
 but it does have something new to offer and it differentiates itself from other games of this genre 
 pretty well. 
  
  FIrst off, Brothers in Arms (BIA) is one of the first (if not the first) to do player-controlled 
 squad combat and the intelligence of your team is quite nimble. However, they are still lemmings.. but 
 just a tad bit smarter.
  
  One of the really nice touches in the game is the interface. Controlling your fire/assault team 
 is alot of right mouse button clicking. I also like how the game identifies the status of enemy 
 positions by using neat looking pie charts to show how much the enemy is suppressed. You'll find 
 yourself doing alot of flanking and going around the enemy. Your typical style of play will involve 
 setting up your guys somewhere safe to make shots but there will be occassions where they say they 
 can't make shots because the enemy is not within their line of site . This is where it is important 
 to give specific orders. Unfortunately, your buddies are not smart enough to know where their best 
 positions is. They can only give you suggestions such as "I can't shoot from here sarge".
  
  There are no quick save games here, but there are a ton of save spots and checkpoints that 
 are scattered between objectives and in some cases the game gives you the chance to heal you and 
 your squad in case you go through the frustration of always getting shot with 1 point of health 
 left. 
  
  What I also really like are the conversations in the game. Even though to some it may be kind of 
 lame you feel attached to your teammates. On the other hand, you maybe annoyed and you may feel 
 the need to put their lives at risk by setting them up for a charging assault. Doing the good 'ol 
 run 'n gun at the enemy is always fun. BIA also likes having characters curse alot. I'm not sure 
 if this is part of the "true story" Matt Baker (the main character) has experienced but it is entertaining 
 and sometimes compelling to watch. At other times, it can get annoying but most of the time (at 
 least in my experience) , it is alot of fun to listen to especially when they're under fire.
  
  The missions are extremely varied and you get a chance to really play with your satchel charges 
 and grenades. Once you get the power to command your own little tank that is when things get more 
 interesting. 
  
  I still wish there was an easy way to get your fire team to separate and suppress fire from 3 different 
 areas and directions but I guess making the interface easy to use had to come first. BIA has most 
 of the missions on flat ground. You don't have many missions using hills or complicated areas and 
 this is probably done this way intentionally to keep your AI squadmates less confused when they 
 navigate the terrain.
  
  Graphics? Well... it's WWII, so I can't really say much. The pictures and movies tell a much better 
 story than this review. Compared to Call Of Duty (CoD) and Metal Of Honor (MoH) , BIA holds a bit 
 better in terms of sheer WWII eye candy. The BIA team definitely went more for the substance than 
 the flash. Artistically, it shows through the environments and the weapons. I really do like the 
 blurring gun effect you see when your looking down your gun's crosshairs similar to real life. 
 I also like how the explosions are not overkill. BIA sticks to a more realistic style of war and 
 the pacing is quite unique when compared to similar games. BIA also has neat little 3rd person 
 animations when you plant a satchel charge or drop a grenade in a tank's hatch. All nice touches. 
 I do have to say that the sound and presentation is alot better than CoD and MoH. The game tries 
 to give the player an intimate feel of the war by giving the main character a narrative. 
  
  Maybe the fact that the box mentions it is a "true story" compels me to play more. Who knows. 
 Anyway, despite all of the WWII stuff out there, BIA is a great game that is worth having in your 
 library especially for the multiplayer. If anything, the multiplayer aspect is fun until you realize 
 assaulting with your fire team is the trump card in winning games. If you're a WWII fanatic, then 
 this is definitely for you. If you don't have many WWII games on your shelf, maybe you should consider 
 getting this game. 
  
  letmeplaybook. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigges
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 17, 2005 11:41 am PT
Review:  World War 2 games are what everyone was waiting for before Medal of Honor came along, but with 
 that came a flood of such games that filled all our appetites. So, is there room for another World 
 War 2 game, the answer is YES!
  
  Brothers in arms isn't just another World War 2 game, it does something different. It adds a feeling 
 of team work and strategy behind it that makes it worth playing. There is also a nice little story 
 and a bond between the men you are fighting beside, which makes a nice change from those faceless 
 characters that fall beside you.
  
  The flank maneuver is a welcome change, where you must pin and flank your enemy to over come them. 
 The problem with this is that it becomes a little linear before long and you'll find your team 
 is only really useful for pinning the enemy when you put them in the right place, but its still 
 fun regardless.
  
  I guess I wouldn't give this game a full 9.0 or above because I do believe with this great new 
 idea, a lot more could be done. I don't like that your men can die beside you only to be alive 
 again in the next level, but it's understandable due to the fact that they all play a part in the 
 overall story. This can be forgiven for the fact that the story is nice and has an interesting 
 twist. 
  
  The only other problem would be the multiplayer which has had an endless amount of problems since 
 it was released and I still haven't got a good game out of it. 
  
  Overall this game is a worthy addition to your collection, as long as you don't mind the little 
 faults, and youre not buying it for the multiplayer aspects.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: manhhieu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2005 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Aiming system is revolution. This makes the game much more realistic. I know not only BIA has iron 
 sight, COD has it too but the difference is in BIA you must use iron sight if you want to shoot 
 something far away. Almost like in real life-battles.
  
  Graphic is awesome. Your boys look good, environment looks good and weather looks good. Err... 
 I mean everything looks very good.
  
  The sound is great.
  
  About gameplay, first I thought keep suppressing fire then flanking makes me bored but actually 
 it didn't. In about the first five levels there's nothing really special but in almost levels left 
 I was very impressed especially Push Into Carentan, Purple Heart Lane, Tom and Jerry and No Better 
 Spot To Die ( I think it's better if you don't die) . The story is solid, the intro dialog of Matt 
 Baker makes me sense... then I have to say gameplay is really really great.
  
  The AI is really great as well. Squad command work well. It's very fun when seeing some shout: 
 Reloading! then go crouch then others stand up and start firing. Enemy AI is very great, too.
 
  
  Besides, Blood and gore and physic-rag doll and in my opinion strong language really makes this 
 game more realistic.
  
  Then this game is most realistic so far.
  
  As said, I'm a big fanboy of COD and now I do like BIA as well. Don't compare, just buy both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatorman82
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 12, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Although the battles are somewhat smaller than I hoped, and the maps sometimes too constraining, 
 this game takes combat AI to the next level. The combination of convincing AI and excellent voice 
 and sound effects combines to often give the feel that you're fighting in a scene from Saving Private 
 Ryan or Band of Brothers.
  
  I hope this Gearbox makes a series of these games and continues to develop the level design into 
 bigger, less constrained maps. Some of the levels are nothing short of awesome while others leave 
 me feeling cheated because they artificially limit my maneuvering.
  
  Overall, this sets a new standard for tactical shooters that I hope the rest of the industry builds 
 upon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amanahmedrana
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 11, 2005 5:28 am PT
Review:  
  
  
  Brothers in Arms: Road to hill 30.
  
  A review by amanahmedrana.
  
  
  Gearbox Software has always been highly regarded in as one of the best when it comes to shooters. 
 With projects like PC version of Halo: Combat Evolved under their belt lot of high hopes was rested 
 on their new venture into WWII action. They have come up with a unique game. This can safely be 
 classified as a strategy based shooter. Most of us have been expecting something like Swat series 
 or the Rainbow six series. But the actual game play is something that at least I havent seen in 
 any other title.
  
  
  Game play: This is the most unique part of the game. There are basically two types of game play. 
 First you can be the typical run and gun action which is usually unrewarding frustrating especially 
 in the end missions. Second you can use your squad like in full spectrum warrior to suppress and 
 flank you have to use your brothers wisely in this type of game play. This second type of game 
 play is highly satisfying and adds great depths in regards of game play. You can achieve your objectives 
 in a great variety of ways which makes this game highly replay able. Only downside is poor aiming 
 even down the sight aiming doesnt help much. Use of cover is of prime importance. Game play is 
 much closer to realism, then other WWII titles you will find. AI is superb and actually intelligent. 
 
  
  
  Graphics: Graphically this title is pretty much dated with lots of titles coming with engaging 
 environments. Brothers in arms fail to engross you in its environments. Game physics is better 
 but still not best. Some of the videos are extremely graphic making it non recommendable for younger 
 kids. 
  
  
  Sound: Sound is good in parts. Dialogue is done with great care and is actually a strong point 
 in the game.
  
  
  Story: Brothers in Arms has a good storyline you will fit in the shoes of Matt Baker who is part 
 of 101st Airborne division who looses his commanding officer during their jump prior to allied 
 invasion thus making him command a company of soldiers. Story has resemblance to the much loved 
 Band of Brothers series by HBO, but with a more personal perspective to it.
  
  
  
  
  Value: This game has a high replayability you can do missions in a variety of ways which makes 
 this title highly recommendable for those who enjoy variety of options.
  
  
  Bottom-line: Brothers in Arms is a solid title with lots of new elements to game play, but not 
 recommended for players expecting the MOHAA or COD type of action. For fans of Full spectrum Warrior 
 you are in for a treat. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharp_shark
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2005 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, the game lived up to its hype all right but certain aspects of the game let you down. 
 
  
  The game play is very unique because it is the first time this style has been implemented into 
 any World War 2 game. The concept of laying suppressing fire onto the enemy with one squad then 
 flanking with another one works pretty well. However, the enemy, I noticed, does not really do 
 the same to you. If you just stay in one position behind cover, do not expect the enemy to flank 
 you. Also, the aiming on this is very hard, although this has never really been done before; it 
 is very hard to shoot straight, so expect annoyance there.
  
  Moving on to the sound aspect of the game, this is extremely well done, probably the best in any 
 WW2 game, definitely matching those produced by MOH in recent years. The sound of mortar fire raining 
 down on you is quite frightening indeed. And the sound of bullet fire whizzing past your head should 
 also be noted.
  
  The Graphics, in my opinion, is quite poor. Most of the soldiers have jagged lines, and nearly 
 all the buildings also have them. This is the case when a top-of-the-range graphics card is used 
 for the game. If you were expecting Doom 3 style graphics, expect huge disappointment here. This 
 definitely lets the game down, but does not affect the game play in anyway.
  
  Finally the Multi-player, the squad system works really well in this aspect of the game. This time 
 it is much better because now the enemy will try to flank and out manoeuvre you. This is one of 
 the best multi-player games I have ever played in regards to FPS in WW2. There are many maps, but 
 sometimes things do get repetitive. 
  
  In conclusion, this is definitely a great WW2 game. The battle system works great at times, but 
 it also has flaws like stupid Artificial Intelligence (only in occasion) . There are a lot of bugs 
 in this game, which stops the game getting the deserved score it should. There are also a tonne 
 of extras to unlock, so it has a long lifespan because different routes can be used to flank the 
 enemy in the game. If you love FPS and strategy games, then this one is for you but do not expect 
 too much.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: romulus
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 8, 2005 1:28 am PT
Review:  BIA is an extreme let down. I own and play PC games because I enjoy their depth and breath and 
 absolutely hate the play of the Xbox/PS2 shooter. Unfortunately, what becomes very obvious within 
 the first 5 minutes of play is that this is a console game ported for the PC. What happened to 
 the promised realistic WWII squad based PC game that would be made available on consoles?? BIA 
 is full of all the typical console game *cough* qualities:
  
  - static maps with set paths
  - no interaction with the environment
  - squad commands consists 
 of 2 orders (only 1 of which worked on my PC)
  - saved game system consists only of "saved checkpoints"... sound familiar?
  - linear storyline 
 to the point where killed squadmates are resurrected for the next msn
  - console game graphics
  - no way to bipass cutscenes
  - extreme weapon inaccuracies
  - only 
 possible tactics consist of suppressing an enemy, then flanking
  
  If you're looking for an even somewhat realistic squad-based simulator, this isn't the game. If 
 you're in the market for a simplistic arcade shooter, grab your GamePad and a beer. After the pizza 
 arrives, start twitching those fingers... You've arrived. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdudas123
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2005 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Hi,
  
  this is a great game with a unique atmosphere. If you like backyard fighting and urban street figths, 
 then this is your game.
  
  The Normandy was recreated perfectly! The gameplay and level design is clear and straight forward. 
 It is a classical game experience.
  
  The only thing I dislike about the game are the loading times between the levels. They are sooooo 
 loooooong. Even more than Half Life 2 (hey developers, think of your audience) .
  
  Checkout "A bridge too far" the movie. It is just like that great Richard Attenborough movie.
 
  
  Favourite quote: I never wanted to become a squad leader. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevcole33
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 3, 2005 3:46 am PT
Review:  Short of actually being able to search dead german troops for cigarettes, this is about as realistic 
 a game yet. 
  the efforts and research of the designers is clearly evident throughout the game. with all sorts 
 of extras and exact replicas of battlefields. 
  can't really say much bad at all about this game. anyone rating this less than a 7 really doesn't 
 get it. just go play another game. some poor reviews have mentioned that the game is just about 
 laying down surpressing fire and flanking? maybe on the easiest level on the first mission or two 
 but that is all. germans come from all over and many different strategies have to be utilized. 
 the tactical view is a great addition to the game. 
  i'd still like to see a WWII game with some role playing elements but this a really a superb game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheN00binator
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 1, 2005 3:35 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about brothers in arms, I was genuinly excited. It sounded like a very realistic 
 and engaging first person shooter. It is certainly very realistic. In fact, it is so realistic, 
 that it borders on incredibly realistic. In fact, this game is so realistic, its just not fun.
 
  
  Brothers in arms starts very dramatically, and draws you into the game nicely. You will enjoy the 
 first few levels (probably) . But that is until you realize that the entire game is almost exactly 
 the same. Every time you see the enemy you do exactly the same thing. You cant just shoot someone 
 from behind cover. Even if the guy has his head sticking right out, you cant take a shot. Because 
 every single time you will miss. Which means you have run all the way around nearby buildings or 
 hedges or other kinds of cover, and get RIGHT NEXT TO your enemy, before you can take a shot and 
 successfully hit someone. The game is apparently meant to be like this because it is more realistic. 
 Maybe so, but doing this every single time gets very tedious indeed. I found also that even when 
 I WAS right next to the enemy I sometimes still found it hard to successfully shoot someone. The 
 game deliberately misguides some of your shots for a more realistic experience. Maybe missing some 
 shots even at point blank range IS realistic, but it sure is not fun.
  In most first person shooters you will need to duck behind cover, stand up at the right moments 
 and shoot, then duck back down again quick. This way you can usually kill a guy pretty quickly, 
 and it is usualy classed as realistic. This game tries to take it one step further, but fails miserably.
 
  
  Moving on to graphics, they look Ok. A little outdated possibly by todays standards, but nothing 
 you wont be able to cope with. Imagine the graphics on Medal Of Honor Allied Assault. They look 
 like that, maybe a bit better. The only thing that really stood out as bad was lip syncing. It 
 does look really bad. It almost seems like the game simply generates random movements on the mouth 
 while talking.
  
  Sound is a lot better. You can hear all sound effects very clearly, and voice acting is generally 
 well done. Not much more to say about sound. But it is one of the stand-out points of the game. 
 Even if the rest was rather disappointing.
  
  I was expecting a lot from this, but it simply turned out to be a very mediocre experience. And 
 not something I can truthfully recommend to anyone. It tries to be an incredibly realistic experience 
 when it comes to flanking, and it certainly succeeds, but all the fun is gone.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 30, 2005 7:16 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by talking about some of the features that make 'Brothers in Arms' a solid WWII 
 shooter.
  
  First off, the game is quite engrossing. Explosions surrounding you, dirt, blood, and bullets flying 
 around, Germans screaming angrily, even the sound of water trickling over your boots in the brook 
 your taking cover from enemy fire in - this game puts a lot of effort into getting you into the 
 feel of a war. All the sound are done well, and there are plenty of pretty graphics around too 
 - not quite up to par with Doom 3 and Half-Life 2, but about the best for any of the WWII themed 
 games.
  
  Secondly, 'Brothers in Arms' offers up some nice gameplay twists. While maintaining the standard 
 kill all the bad guy themes of any good First Person Shooter, BiA goes a step higher by giving 
 you command over the troops fighting alongside you. Simple controls allow you to order your men 
 to follow you, go to a given point, shoot off supressive fire, or rush an enemies location. So 
 instead of them just running off to pre set points like in older games, you actually have all the 
 choices in where to go, and it makes for a great blend of strategy and action.
  
  Now, i'll address some points that keep this game from having any higher a score.
  
  First 
 off, it's repetitive just like every other shooter out there. So while its definately a fun game, 
 it could get boring after a few missions. If your a big FPS or WWII fan, this shouldn't be a problem.
 
  
  Second, being a port from a console game, it has no real save feature - instead it autosaves at 
 certain checkpoints and when you complete a level. (and God i hate not being able to save wherever 
 i want.)
  
  Third, some of the landscapes are a tad bland. While attempting to flank enemy soldiers, i quite 
 frequently found myself running around behind a building that had a fence preventing me from running 
 off into an empty field. I guess the programmers didnt think id be trying to hide from the guys 
 shooting me?
  
  Fourth, a lot of objects that you should be able to jump over cant be. I guess this is because 
 its a console game in origin, but im not used to being forced into not jumping over that fence 
 that is clearly about a third my height just because they want me to go a certain way. After a 
 while i got used to it, but i didn't like it.
  
  Fifth, there is a console like way of unlocking bonus material, cheatcodes, and other things that 
 just doesnt need to be there. I mean, seriously, who is gonna play through the same game 4 times? 
 Not me, thats for sure. And if i did, it definately would be over the span of a few formats, so 
 the game wouldnt have remembered anything i did.
  
  All in all, 'Brothers in Arms' is a solid game. If you want a change from playing 'Call of Duty', 
 then pick it up. Otherwise, id say wait for a decent price drop and then pick it up. If you can 
 remember that it was designed with consoles in mind, you can probably have a pretty good time playing 
 it.
  
  (Also, i experience a serious glitch with my dual 6800s in SLi mode - the starting resolution is 
 extremely low - and apparently confuses the video cards. A minor problem, easily fixed by disabling 
 SLi, changing the resolution, and re-enabling SLi, but an annoyance some users might want to be 
 aware of before purchasing.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Okieace
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2005 11:20 pm PT
Review:  WWII games have been quite popular for quite some time. It seems that FPS shooters are set either 
 in a Science Fiction or WWII setting. Brothers-in-Arms (BIA) fits in the later category. But despite 
 being in a crowded market this game manages to stand out from the crowd. Brothers-in-Arms is a 
 gritty squad based shooter where you play 101st Airborne Sergeant Matt Baker.
  
  The narrative is told through scripted game sequences and in-game cut scenes. The story throughout 
 is well told and you always understand what you are doing and why. The biggest problem with the 
 narrative is that it becomes hard to keep track of your squad and who is alive and who has been 
 killed. Each mission your squad members can be killed but they will be back the next mission.
 
  
  The game masterfully blends action and strategy. This is no run and gun shooter, but the strategic 
 part of the game doesn't slow down the action either. It consists of moving your team from cover 
 to cover and laying down fire on enemy positions. Once an enemy is suppressed you have to try and 
 flank the enemy. None of this is near as easy as it sounds. Your find the enemy is very good at 
 digging in and finding a way to their flank seems like a new challenge almost every time.
  
  One of the great features of the game is the strategic view. This over the head view lets you 
 scope out your position, the enemies, and any goals.
  
  Besides the excellent single player the game features a unique and compelling multiplayer mode. 
 The multiplayer game allows you to play with 2- 4 players. Each player commands either a fire or 
 assault squad composed of AI players. Each map has varying goals such as blowing up a objective 
 or delivering documents to a specific location. The multiplayer game really shines and adds lots 
 of value to this already great package.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2005 5:31 am PT
Review:  OPENING: this game has alot of guts, it basically created the user freindly tactical shooter, and 
 this single acheivement does so much for gameplay as well as online combat. at the same time it 
 sets out to be a over whelmingly realistic WWII shooter, the big question is, does it succeed.
 
  
  PROS: great gameplay in terms of squad combat, this opens up alot in terms of possibilities for 
 the player, and is even more varied with the addition of control over tanks. amazing sound, some 
 truely great voice acting, good dialogue, the best story in a war game to date, i don't know it 
 that is a good thing, especially considering it is the first. amazing level design AT TIMES. cool 
 filter/bloom affect. ocasionaly great animations, ragdoll physics. great AI
  
  CONS: ported (meaning, no prone, no lean option, toggle squat only, bad (sometimes downright horrible 
 graphics and animations, overly simplified gameplay, sometime bad damage modeling, check points 
 only, why, goofy aiming, and balancing issues online, sometimes total lack of polish, annoying 
 AI hickups often ridiculous linearity. horrible conclusion. NO SPRINT killing teammates has no 
 reprecusions.)
  
  
  THE MEAT:
  this game like so many other first (bf1942, half-life, first rainbow six, far cry) is plagued with 
 a little to many anoying hickups to keep it from earning an amazingly high score, yet it's enginuety 
 and originality, and ground breakingness make it nessecary to recognize, as well as make it a timeless 
 classic, the good thing is that with so much to fix the franchise can only improve from here. the 
 squad controls are amazingly fun, and when you finally get two fire teams the combat is really 
 intense, i usually break the protocal and treat myself as a third team (something the developers 
 don't want you to do) , because the sandwich effect (when you flank from both sides at once, something 
 army freaks should know is bad protocal, it can result in friendly fire) freaks out the enemy AI, 
 and Friedly fire isn't a problem. but anywaze the squad controls are almost perfect, except for 
 the consoleitis this game suffers, for example have you ever wanted you teammates to just nade 
 a d@mn MG42 position, well its up to them since there isn't a darn nade option, also have you ever 
 wanted to sprint for cover, well you won't be doing any of that in here, nor will you be going 
 prone, or leaning out from behind cover to snap shoot an enemy since there aren't lean keys, and 
 if u like poping up and down to snap shoot someone, well it gets really goofy with the darn squat 
 toggle button, now i don't mind a crouch toggle control, ecxept when it doesn't awlays work, and 
 the darn thing makes you pop up and down un controlable when hit to many times in close succession. 
 also AI isn't perfect, for example, sent my guys to perfect cover, and they stand out in the open, 
 and when they get shot at, they run in circles, darn beta testers didn't report this stuff, because 
 it is probably script errors in the level design, that should have been seen, this happens at obvious 
 moments in the game, scripted moments, like when you are takeing the factory in carentan, and the 
 ENemy ai is spawning like nuts (lame) , you guys just like to get shot when sand bags are like a 
 foot away. (so if you play the game on a higher dificulty and try to tell you guys to hand back 
 at the sandbags and let you enter the factory, they'll hang bakc alright, and die) these moments 
 aren't that many though, the obvious nature of most of then makes me really frustrated. probably 
 in the single player the most frustrating thing for me would be the lack of save any where options. 
 many a time i've wanted to throw my computer on the floor after spending 30 mins meticulously conquering 
 a level, to only be blow apart by a MG42 that is guarding the checkpoint. this game is about 6 
 hours long, but with the crapy check points it will pobably take you about 8-10 on normal or difficult. 
 there are suppression indicators, lame, i play without for the full war effect, there is also the 
 optional crosshairs, they don't do anything either so i turned em off. aiming down the sight is 
 awsome, but the weapon textures are muddy or pixilated, as are the rear sights that go out of focus 
 when you aim iron sights. this anoys me alot, how much would it have taken to creat a blure function 
 for thing out of focus, like when you are waking up from being unconsios, this are pixilated rather 
 than blurry. there are also anoying texture problems, like when a texture on your hand seems to 
 also be atached to something on the other side of the level, these kinds of lame bugs are proliferant, 
 and really take u out of the game. the character models are really good, except for all the cliping 
 going on with the uniform, their faces look good for a war game, but don't compare to doom3, farcry, 
 or HALF-LIFE 2. facial animations are lame, and generally animations are really canned, intigrated 
 cinematic sequences are killed by the corny animations, or texture glitches, but i must say that 
 the runing and walking animations for characters looks real good, as oposed to call of duty were 
 every one looks like they are walking with a spring in their step. the story would have been beter 
 with more visualy poetry to connect with bakers rimes, but the cut scenes themeselves really aren't 
 good. voice acting in general is top notch and the script is good, not great though. it funny that 
 this is like alot of other war games in that it's one man takes em all, because really you are 
 all the difference, you and your men will kill twenty times their body weight in germans every 
 day or so, that is alot of germans for seven guys to kill. damage models tend to be dead on, except 
 grenades, you get very few, and they don't do shrapnel damage, or have a very large damage radious, 
 this is funny considering how far they fling bodies (i love ragdoll/havoc physics) sometimes nades 
 will land only feet from you and you won't take any damage (sometimes that is your nade, when the 
 enemy throughs your grenade back at you) . damage is pretty good though, like gazes don't deal alot 
 of damage, but a head shot will take you down, unless it's a graze shot on your helmet, also a 
 few direct shots to the chest will make quick work of you to. with this in mind, i think that cover 
 gives you a bonus in terms of damage prevention, because the normaly sharp shooting germans can't 
 seem to hit you as well when only your torso (the part of your body with all your valuble organs) 
 is showing. but this works really well for gameplay, and i like it. sniping is cool, bullets drop 
 over distance slitly and take time to get there, so sniping takes a little talent. squad controls 
 are just so much fun, issuing comands while you run for cover, it works real well, the fluid controls 
 allow for a much more agressive game than ghost recon (which is just boring, every one has as good 
 of accuracy as your sniper in that game) the single player has a nicely intigrated tutorial, the 
 controls are all programable, and maps are generally really good, except when they become annoyingly 
 linear, then i just get mad, god would i gasm for a game with this style squad command, in a free 
 for all far cry envireoment (complete with far cry visuals) . the music for the game is good, and 
 is reserved for the conclusions of the missions, and menue screens, leaving the battles with a 
 nice and raw feeling, in the opening cinematic (when you are jumping) i love how everything slows 
 down, and baker voices over"i didn't want to be squad leader" it feels so poetic and well placed, 
 this kind of wonderfulness is missing from most of the story though. i think that brothers in arms 
 number two biggest hick up is that KIA's don't count agianst you, and they will jion you in the 
 next mission (if the story intends for it) unit vetrency would really help, then you would not only 
 be emotionaly attached but there would be a strategic value in the vetrans. this kind of developement 
 i expect for the sequel, after all look at the halo franchises leaps and bounds, and gear box was 
 once part of that. gear box is all over the place in terms of making other peoples games, i must 
 say it is nice to finally see them make a game of there own, i must also say i'd like to see them 
 make a complete game. now that they have layed the ground work, they can surely blow us away with 
 their sequel, hopefully it won't take six year though (HALF-LIFE 2)
  
  LETS BREAK IT DOWN:
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  well, the gameplay is fresh and amazing, it would have 
 goten a ten if some expected options hadn't been left out. the squad mechanics are just so much 
 fun, and though some would say it turns the game into a strategy game, i think that it makes the 
 tactical combat fasta furious, since you can run and gun and command almost simotaneously once 
 you get the hang of it (flanking is fun) .
  
  9
  
  GRAPHICS:
  why an 8, well there are a number of graphicle glitches, muddy or overly pixelated textures, and 
 well the graphics just don't look any where as good as HALF-LIFE 2 (over rated graphics engine, 
 they have awsome textureing capabilities then why not round out some nasty sharp coners artificially) , 
 wich in my opinion isn't the cuting edge. the bloom effect is nice, and the filter the game uses 
 for it's visuals creates a noticably washed out look, similar to a 70's documentry (oddly the same 
 look speilberg goes for in his war films"that is a joke") but the sometimes, heck, often, muddy 
 textures detract from the what should have been grainy look of the game, character models look 
 great for a war game, but cliping is abound. animations are either great or horrible. they for 
 example don't have animations for step, so guys just teleport kind of, watch the guy in the early 
 part of the game as he goes up the steps of the french house to ask where you guys are, he majicaly 
 jumps, it's just crap.
  
  SOUND:
  what is it with war games and great sound design, well this game has yet agian great sound, my 
 two favorites are vioce acting, and weapons, more specifically the BAR, that thing for the first 
 time in any game, it sounds like it can tear sh! t up, it's awsome, i love it. yeah well hands down 
 audio is the most polished part of this game.
  
  VALUE:
  well it cost me fourty at best buy, awsome, it's deffinately worth it, this thing is changeing 
 the war genre, and tactical gaming in general. fourty bucks isn't alot to be on the bleeding edge.
 
  9
  
  REVIEWERS TILT:
  I don't know what that is, but i thought that nine was a good score, i liked this game and would 
 give it a nine out of ten.
  
  9
  
  
  9.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sleaker
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 28, 2005 9:57 pm PT
Review:  After playing through Medal of Honor, Call of Duty, Battlefield 1942, and a lot of Day of Defeat 
 multiplayer I have come to love WW2 Shooters. The coolest feature in this game is the squad management. 
 The problem with it is that often times your squadmates will sit in enemy fire even when in a hiding 
 position. They die very easily and this makes for the game to be overly difficult. The missions 
 are generally the same grind as CoD or MoH the difference being instead of scripted Squad movements 
 like in CoD, you control the squad. This game feels like it's all been done before as far as missions 
 go. Carrying only 2 weapons. useable Mgs the main selling factor of controlling a squad doesn't 
 seem to live up to my expectations.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alichino
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2005 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This is one shooter where you will not be able to do it alone. The game designers did an excellent 
 job of making sure to implement the four F's (explained very well in the tutorial as well) and 
 that third F (Flank them) ... is used nearly exclusively in the game. Which means, done well, you 
 may not even have to fire a shot, done poorly and you may be fighting off a tough accurate opponent 
 by yourself. Suppress those enemies before you think about moving... when you get to Purple Heart 
 Lane you'll understand why. 
  
  That said the game play is smooth, the controls pretty intuitive, although I stumbled between bringing 
 up my gun site and issuing orders more times than I'd care to confess.
  
  One of the greatest qualities of this game is the extras that are unlocked as you progress through 
 the game. These extras are aerial photographs, videos, commentaries, etc. It is great stuff and 
 as Baker is telling is story through you, you also have the ability to step out of the game and 
 look at the real events that surrounded the fictionalized versions. It is the salt of the meal 
 we're looking at here. And it's engrossing.
  
  As for the game difficulty settings I found normal to be just about right, although I've not played 
 it all the way through on the harder level, I'm finding it a bit more frustrating.
  
  Is this game innovative? I think so. The AI, does have some quarks, but it's the best I've seen. 
 The enemy repositions itself, if it can. Your AI team does not run out into the open where the 
 bullets are, they find cover, lay down fire, just by telling them to get to cover. That's pretty 
 impressive.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodhrp
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 28, 2005 3:21 am PT
Review:  When I fist seen the early screenshots I was impressed. At last a game that gave Band of Brothers 
 style action. Well, I was wrong, so wrong in fact if i could return the game I would. Lets start 
 with the whole idea about the unit that the game is based on, I bet you could find alot more groups 
 of men that had a more interesting few days in normandy. I mean I was expecting to drop right into 
 a german gun nest and half to fight my way out, but no.. The game spends way to much time trying 
 to make you feel like your really in normandy , like the part where you have to find out where 
 you are, not 5 min in the game you are already in your first scripted area. And when you do find 
 the germans, you get this nifty red circle over there head that lets you know where they are and 
 know when they are supressed...... Can you say ultra-unrealistic, sure you can take it off, but 
 since you can't shoot them unless the game lets you. I cant even count have many times I will use 
 3 clips of M1 ammo at a dumb ass german who thinks he is behind something but half his body is 
 sticking out, but nope I cant hit him no matter how carefull I aim. If I owned a Xbox or a Playstation 
 2, then this would be a good game, but the FIRST big question mark that I had was when the Xbox 
 version came out first, then almost a week later the PC version came out..... Sounds like one hell 
 of a port job on this game. To the makers Of Call of Duty... Hurry up and save us from all this 
 port-maddness and finish Call of Duty 2
  
  -Rodney Harper 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtNate
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2005 3:12 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is good, the graphics are pretty good, the replay value is ok. The only thing i dont 
 like about this game is that its really short. Took me only about 10 hours to beat. The MP is good. 
 Some people cant get it to work but i can and its new and great. 2v2 with lots of bots is fun. 
 To sum it up this is one of the best ww2 shooters ever, or any shooter. The aiming is hard but 
 realistic. Ive read reviews on here that say its to hard. Well lets see you run, get shot at, and 
 then aim a gun perfectly. Also ive shot guns before, the bullets dont go exactly where the sights 
 are everytime. The ai is also pretty good. I made myself invisible and ran to an enemy posistion, 
 they couldnt see me but they acted as if an enemy was right in front of them. They fell back to 
 another position so if i wasnt invisible i couldnt flank them. Also when you order a tank to fire 
 on the enemy or just throw a grenade you can dismember them :-) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew1969
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 28, 2005 2:13 am PT
Review:  I know a game is great when I play it straight through the night. BIA is a great game; unfortunately, 
 I believe I spent more time staring at the loading screen than actually playing the game. Granted, 
 after finishing every WWII FPS (COD series, MOH series, etc) , I felt a little cocky so I started 
 playing on "Difficult".
  It was a humbling experience, and also a bit frustrating. The game requires you to suppress and 
 flank, and if you don't, you will not hit enemy soldiers no matter how well you aim. It is artificially 
 difficult to aim and hit your targets. Now, if you wait two seconds, then you can aim much more 
 accurately; however, you often watch shots you know should hit -- go wide. I guess the developers 
 want you to employ "flank and suppress" squad tactics, and that's ok, except sometimes it is nearly 
 impossible to flank the enemy, so you plink away, missing your targets for several minutes.
  Which brings me to my second and third complaints, you cannot lean around corners and fire, and 
 there is only a checkpoint save game system. So expect to replay levels several times, and most 
 unfortunately that means waiting a long time for the level to reload. I am using a Western Digital 
 74G 10K Raptor, and it took 3-4 minutes to reload each level (cut to about 2 minutes after the 
 patch) . That is a long time! Especially considering how many times I had to reload.
  I realize it really does not sound like an enjoyable experience, but understand I am now half-way 
 through the game on "authentic", so it is really worthwhile, despite a few minor gripes.
  I look forward to the second (and third?) BIA. And I really though I had enough WWII shooters.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: him42
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2005 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms is a highly realistic strategic FPS set in WW2. You lead your men through lush 
 grassy fields and towns that are crawling with Germans. The story in BiA is historically accurate, 
 and the men you fight with were real heroes from WW2. The locations you go through are highly accurate 
 maps that look just the way they would have if you were there in WW2. The developers spent quite 
 some time making BiA as realistic as possible while remaining entertaining, and trust me, BiA suceeds 
 on every level in being very entertaining. 
  
  The gameplay in BiA is really satisfying all the way through the game. The enemies are deadly shots 
 and only a few shots will take you or your squad members down, so you have to learn how to take 
 cover and effectively control your squad. You can have your squad provide cover fire or assualt 
 enemies, and it is very easy to control them. Enemies will take cover once supressed, allowing 
 you or squad members to flank their position and finish them off from an unprotected angle. The 
 shooting mechanics in BiA take a little getting used to because they are far more realistic than 
 in any other shooter. There are no crosshairs to aim with on the run, but you can look down the 
 sights of your gun for relatively accurate shots, depending on the weapon. When you look down the 
 sights of your weapon, it can still be hard to get accurate shots because your weapon sways quite 
 a bit, even when crouching. This can be slightly frustrating if you aren't getting a good framerate, 
 thanks to the demanding system requirements.
  
  The graphics featured in BiA is a mix bag. The envirnments look very nice, with heavy foliage and 
 a great use of soft, bloom lighting. The player and weapon models look very realistic and it's 
 easy to imagine that they are very close to how soldiers and weapons looked in WW2. The textures 
 are the biggest dissapointment in BiA. Almost every texture in low resolution and undetailed, even 
 on the highest settings. It may bother those who have played games like Half-Life 2, Far Cry and 
 Doom 3, but overrall it doesnt hinder the experiance much. You also need a pretty beefy system 
 to run BiA on the higher settings, and even with my high end system i got sluggish framerates with 
 the top settings.
  
  Otherwise from the gameplay in BiA, the sound is the most impressive feature. It is easy to guess 
 that every weapon sounds the way they do in real life, and they all have a distictive powerful 
 boom or crack to them. Explosions and machine gun fire make the experiance very intense in almost 
 every fire fight. Having a surround sound really pays off here, and I suggest cranking the sound 
 up for the best experiance.
  
  While the single player campaign has 4 difficulties and lasts less than 10 hours, mulitplayer is 
 there for those ready to take the action online. There is a max of only 4 players per server, but 
 since each player gets a squad of 3 other bots, there ends up really being 16 people in each game. 
 Each side (Americans and Germans) has to complete a certain objective on each different map, so 
 the gameplay is much deeper than in a typical FPS multiplayer deathmatch game. It is a lot of fun 
 working with other players, and there are endless strategies that can lead you to victory.
  
  Brothers in Arms is easily the most realistic and tactically satisfying WW2 game availible. 
 If you like shooters, strategy games or WW2 games in general, BiA is a must have title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -TooN-
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2005 7:41 am PT
Review:  I do think it is one of the best WWII games out, though not the best. It's single player is great 
 and probably the best single player for WWII but it is dry on the Multiplayer. The MP option should've 
 had a little more different types of things and servers that could atleast handle 8 people per 
 server. The sound and look to the game is great and really looks like Band of Brothers or Saving 
 Private Ryan in it's realisticness. Some of the WWII "Buffs", or, "Experts" on the subject may 
 dislike the fact that the M1 Garand can manually reload. All together I think it is a great and 
 very fun shooter but is a little weak on its multiplayer. 
  There's my two cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2005 5:18 am PT
Review:  After what seems like a million World War II First Person shooters, I like a lot of people wasnt 
 exactly getting all excited about Gearbox Softwares Brothers in Arms. I mean how many times we 
 can capture Normandy before it becomes a chore. But in came Gearbox and they said hey look at us 
 we can do something different were going to strive for an authentic experience, we can provide 
 story telling and we can give the player basic tactical options for how to defeat the Nazis. After 
 Playing through Brothers in Arms one thing is certainly clear, this is not your fathers WWII game. 
 Its intense not through throwing a billion soldiers at you, its intense because there is a lot 
 to consider. But it gives you the tools to make it happen. 
  When you first boot up Brothers in Arms probably the first thing youll notice is that the game 
 has good graphics. Theyre not up to snuff of the latest and greatest on the PC but theyre more 
 than average that much is certain. All of your men are extremely well detailed and they really 
 have the authentic look of airborne troopers that Ive seen in old photographs. That is to say 
 that each soldier you come across in the game isnt a stock model but has really been taken care 
 to look like a real person. They have a face with identifiable features; theyve got a uniform 
 that looks like a real uniform with insignia for stuff and the like. Theyve got their weapons 
 stowed in unorthodox places from time to time. The environments also look quite good and are also 
 very authentic. People from Gearbox and Ubisoft actually went to Northern France and took pictures 
 of the places where this game took place and made sure the game looked just like the stuff that 
 people saw back in the Second World War. 
  One area where this game really excels above and beyond what most games come close to is the games 
 audio. For one thing the game has a dramatic, score that plays when youre loading and is in the 
 background at times. Its got music to make you feel sad when you should feel sad and music to 
 make you feel excited when you should feel excited. Still better than the soundtrack is the games 
 superior voice acting performances. Each soldier was voiced by a voice actor and they all did a 
 great job of it. Furthermore their guys yell stuff out like Id imagine real soldiers did. They 
 tell you if theyve spotted the enemy tell you to get down from time to time if youre not behind 
 cover, tell you if they cant hit a enemy youve ordered them too and so on. They also did a great 
 job voice acting for the games cut scenes which were quite good and seemed authentic. More details 
 about the games story in just a moment. Lastly the ambient sound for this game is really quite 
 good. You can tell from what direction youre being fired at even with just a 2.1 setup, Id imagine 
 its quite a treat to play this with full on 5.1 or better surround sound setup if youve got the 
 equipment.
  The games story really needs to be noted. Normally you get a World War 2 game and its going to 
 be all about the shooting Nazis. This one is a lot about the shooting Nazis but Brothers In Arms 
 also gives you a great set of characters who make you a lot more interested in the progress youre 
 making. And dont expect to be making grand strides in different campaigns that lead to the end 
 of the war like MOH. This game is set over a period of 9 days after D-Day and is mostly about mundane 
 tasks like capturing and defending farmhouses that the Germans had setup as a forward command post 
 and then defending it from a counter offensive. Youre very often just concerned with making it 
 to the end of the block when youre moving. It has something of a bland plot but thats the real 
 deal, the characters seem kind of real and you see them in different moods and the effect that 
 this has is when some of them die it really makes you feel bad. When you see one of them mangled 
 after getting hit by a Stuka raid, youll really feel awful about it. 
  Now on to the main event, Brothers in Arms has very good innovative gameplay and its quirks will 
 be overshadowed in large part by the good things about it. The Game melds squad command material 
 with First person shooting in an adept way. You might have seen the squad command features in a 
 game like FSW but this game is a lot better at that stuff and it lets you shoot too. The fact that 
 you can shoot makes the game a bit daunting at first because managing your squad at the same time 
 youre dodging fire and returning fire can be quite complex. However, once you get the hang of 
 it its great. Despite the focus on Authenticity it does give you any time access to a birds eye 
 view of the battle and lets you see every German soldier on the battlefield that youve discovered. 
 Youll never find anything new on this map but youll be able to see all the Germans and their 
 position relative to you and your two fire teams at any time. These fire teams are given some pretty 
 solid AI. The AI for the enemy isnt dumb and occasionally itll usually make you pay for your 
 mistakes. Commands are pretty easy to order with a fairly well put together interface. It take 
 a bit of time to get used to it, but as you start to understand what everything does on the board 
 it becomes more and more second nature. By the time you really need to be good at it things should 
 be fairly manageable for you. 
  The Gameplay isnt without its faults, mainly that youre going to die a lot and your mates are 
 going to die sometimes too and youre not always going to know how you should have done it. This 
 can get a bit on the frustrating side. I wouldnt say the game is extremely hard but its certainly 
 a challenge to get through the later stages. Furthermore this game can be draining, if youre the 
 type of person who wants to play in marathons this may not be the game for you as its simply exhausting 
 to try to take on several missions in a row as there is just a lot to manage between commanding 
 your squads and keeping them alive and keeping yourself alive and keeping the soldiers of the Wermacht 
 dead. The games use of checkpoints will also bug some of you, but generally I didnt mind this 
 so much. If you get stuck at a checkpoint for more than three deaths it offers to heal you and 
 your whole squad. I know this isnt the most realistic way of doing things but it eases up some 
 of the frustrating parts of the game. Their were only a few sections where I didnt think that 
 the checkpoints came soon enough. Im sure this will bug some of the hardcore quick save addicts 
 but I wouldnt call it a weakness really as it makes it all the more satisfying when you get it 
 right. Another thing Ive seen some complaints was actually something I really liked. By Default 
 the game doesnt have a crosshair enabled and you need to shoulder your rifle and look down the 
 iron sights just like in real life. This adds to the authenticity of the experience and prevents 
 you from firing on the move without using something silly like a moving crosshair or a shrinking/expanding 
 crosshair. 
  I didnt do much with the multiplayer except join a quick match of it and get my rear handed to 
 me on a plate. But I did like how they kept the squad mechanics intact for the multiplayer. Rather 
 than just having a vanilla death match and CTF mode that Id never want to play instead of the 
 same thing in Quake or UT its got a 1 on 1 matchup with squads so its very tactical. Not really 
 my bag but Im sure some of you would enjoy playing around with this. 
  This isnt a perfect game, its got some niggling flaws and some frustrating parts but its really 
 the best single player world war two game Ive played in a long time. The addition of characters 
 really adds to the experience and makes it really seem interesting whats going on. The tactical 
 management makes playing through the game worth doing as its hardly just another run and gun game 
 with Nazis to kill but a sort of thinking mans FPS so to speak. If youve got even the slightest 
 interesting in tactical shooters or World War Two then I whole heartedly recommend this game to 
 you. If youd rather be digging ditches than killing Nazis then this one isnt going to set the 
 world on fire with perfection either. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 27, 2005 1:52 am PT
Review:  I followed the progression of BiA for a long time and I thought, finally a game which tries to 
 tell a story about a squad in WW2.
  Everything the gamedevelopers had promised turned to dust on it's release.
  First of all BiA 
 is a console game (it was announced as a PC title) . After 20 minutes of playing this becomes totaly 
 clear. The controls, the level design everything seems to be designed for console.
  Right from the start you will find yourself in a world with very limited interaction, no doors 
 to kick in, no barrels you can knock over, no nothing. Everything is static.
  And the big maps, well what means big when you only can walk obviously visible paths and can't 
 go over small fences. 
  So a big minus on the level design.
  Now the mainpoint of BiA was the interaction and the behaviour of your squad and the releationship 
 between them and the player.
  Back in development of this game the gearbox guys promised believable characters with their own 
 behavior and qualities. This ended up in a few phrases of speech for the various soldiers. So no 
 guy who sits down and screams because he can't take it no more, or some soldier who runs rampage 
 or stuff like that. 
  And everybody seems to have unlimited ammo. Give you guys the order to suppress a enemy barricade 
 and they do it until you order them to stop not when they out of ammo.
  And when a soldier dies he will be up next round. So that way you couldn't care less for your squad.
 
  The graphics seem nice but they are more console then PC quality.
  And the style could be right out of a Walt Disney movie, again no WW2 feeling.
  Then we have 
 the animations of the characters. Let me say they are good as long as the guys not in motion. If 
 they running and gunning around it looks very funny most of the time. Another minus and no realism.
 
  Next the gameplay. It seems the whole game is about one tactic, supressing fire and flanking. 
 That means you work yourself and your squad from one flank to another, yelling the same two orders 
 over and over, let me say this gets boring after twenty minutes.
  
  I could go on forever like that but I stop here.
  This game isn't what the devs promised. 
 
  It's seems gearbox was all about "talk and no walk". They promised heaven and couldn't even get 
 hell right.
  BiA is an boring arcade shooter similar to Halo with the WWII graphic set. Nothing more and nothing 
 less.
  No realism, no exciting story and events. And for me, no fun and certainly no new experience.
 
  
  Save your money!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 27, 2005 12:47 am PT
Review:  Okay, so if you're thinking not another WWII game, think again. This game has its own experience 
 to offer an already heavily crowded category on the video game racks. I knew this game was different 
 when I didn't feel like the super trooper rushing across the battlefield to bash in skulls. In 
 fact, if you did that, you'd die... pretty much instantly. No bunny hopping for you seasoned FPS 
 vets. 
  
  I would go as far as to say that this is hardly an FPS, it acts a lot more like a strategy game. 
 I find myself doing less of the actual killing that needs to be done, and more ordering my squads 
 around to do it in the most effective manner. Sure, I'm still a soldier doing my part among the 
 grand scheme of things, but never at any moment do I feel like a super hero. This is a good thing 
 for a more authentic experience.
  
  It is important to understand that this is not another Call of Duty or Medal of Honor. If that's 
 what you want, don't get this game. I love Call of Duty, but it's a completely different experience 
 than this. Your squad goes beyond the sake of immersion, and into a highly integrated part of the 
 game. Not only are they essential to strategy, but they are essential to your survival. Squander 
 away their lives, and you do so with your own life.
  
  You'll find yourself commanding the squad in a relatively easy fashion, you can have them follow 
 you or hold positions. You start out with one squad to command, and they are used mostly for the 
 sake of suppressing the enemy from a secure location as you move to flank. You can also have them 
 charge, but that tactic is more appropriate for when you have a second squad equiped with thompsons. 
 As well as a second squad, you sometimes receive a tank in your units to command. This comes in 
 real handy for the purpose of supression, but you'll also find yourself protecting it with infantry 
 from secured German bunkers with panzerschrecks. I find the squad based fighting to be very well 
 balanced. I've yet to feel over equiped for the enemy, but if you don't move your units correctly, 
 you will find yourself out gunned many, many times. Teamplay is the key.
  
  The graphics are nothing spectacular, but they work well. The environments seem to have a quiet 
 feeling of dignity that I'm just not quite used to from other WWII games. It's a very somber experience. 
 I feel it works well with the pace of the game. The sound is as to be expected, and the voice acting, 
 while exeptional at times, can sometimes get a little corny which breaks down the mood of the game. 
 The overall feel of the game holds its own with the best of them though. Another thing that can 
 destroy the mood is the fact that even if a comrade falls in combat, he'll return in the next mission. 
 It's a minor gripe, but it kind of detracts from the authenticity.
  
  Ultimately, if you like the WWII era, this game is for you, and I think it will be the most authentic 
 experience you've seen in terms of gameplay. So don't let all the junk that floods this market 
 deter you from picking up the game. It is without a doubt one of the best WWII games I've played... and 
 hey, I've played Call of Duty. But remember, this is not really a shooter, so don't go into the 
 purchase with that delusion... you will be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devnull
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 26, 2005 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honour was the first to really catch me with thrilling action and great settings, then 
 Call of Duty came and blew it away with even more story, settings and better play. But now Brother 
 in Arms make them all a bit fadd.
  The really big thing with BiA is the squad play, it gives you an immense amount of tactical options 
 to order around two groups of fire teams (or sometimes even tanks) and really make away with one 
 of the drawbacks in Medal of Honour and Call of Duty, you don't have to defeat the german army 
 all on your own.
  The story is good and very well researched. It takes you from the D-day landing behind enemy lines 
 to the defence of Hill 30 through Vierville, St. Come-du-Mont and Carentan. You get to clear the 
 way for gliders by blowing away telephone poles, blow up a bridge, stop tanks and snipe enemies 
 from the church tower in Carentan. It's a varied storyline which keeps you hooked for hours on 
 end. 
  The graphics looks good and although it does not leapfrog the previous WWII first person shooters 
 it's researched accuracy to the real thing with details given in the extra material gives it a 
 new dimension.
  The sound is standard and they've sampled the real stuff here too. The comments shouted by your 
 squad and your enemy gets repetitive. And though your squad shouts advice to you along the line 
 of "Watch out", "Stay low" and "Get out of the way" it's always when it's obvious and theres no 
 hints of direction from where they perceive danger.
  An addition to the value is the extra material you unlock by playing the chapters, all kinds of 
 documents and photography gets available as you succeed with you missions on different difficulty 
 levels. This also raise the replay value if you start out on an easy difficulty.
  One of the drawbacks is the loading times (which is expected with the size of the playing fields) 
 and the cut scenes which are uninterpretable. The uninterpretable cutscenes are OK the first time 
 around, but after playing it through the first time you should really be permitted to skip them.
 
  I've not tried the multiuser version yet, I'm usually not very much for the head on competitions 
 I would more like to team up against a computer enemy. But the squad aspect makes me inclined to 
 at least try this time.
  This is the first game I've restarted immediately after playing it through which is a good grade. 
 Now what I really wish is that Ubisoft and Gearbox Software already started with more campaigns 
 and new versions, but PLEASE not "The battle of the Bulge"! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codgamer2004
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2005 8:22 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a WWII fps shooter like this. I do like the MoH style run and gun fps, 
 but I wanted at least one game that had some realism. Well, this game is it. Let me explain:
  Sound- beautiful, you could really feel like you are there. The sounds of bullets whizzing by sound 
 good, along with you squad responding to the battlefield (say they get one, they will say he is 
 down! or if a comrade goes down they will shout their name and such.)
  Graphics- well, I dont run it at the highest resolution or anything, but at 1024 things are looking 
 very good. I really enjoy how good the explosions look, and when dirt or blood flies up on your 
 screen (very, very cool.)
  Gameplay- no other word to use, but intense! You dont need to be in a huge battle (and this game 
 proves it) to get a cool feeling when playing. If you have been doing a lot of running and look 
 down the sights, guess what, your aim isnt so good! This game makes you get an idea of what these 
 guys went through. Seeing men torn apart, friend or foe, knowing you need to move or its over, 
 and much more. If you are looking for something new, fun, and challenging, this is it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebreux4
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 26, 2005 3:57 am PT
Review:  First and for most , stop comparing this game with COD I'm sick and tired because they are 2 completly 
 different games.
  
  Now , this game is simply the most innovative tactical WWII game I've ever seen. The gameplay with 
 no crosshair is pretty realistic , all the different weapons have different kickback , the people 
 who said that it hard to aim blablabla , well start praticing because it like that in the real 
 life , the same damn thing.
  
  The graphics aren't that bad , way much better looking than COD because Ubisoft make more beautiful 
 looking game than EA :P well that my opinion. 
  
  For the rest everything is set up for making this game a must have , the single player game is 
 not too short not too long just right , the multiplayer is pretty weak for now but I hope Ubisoft 
 will think about making more options for this mode , like deathmatch etc...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2005 8:02 pm PT
Review:  The sound of the airplanes overhead, the guns cracking as they fire, the bullets wizzing by your 
 ear all while you're stuck behind a car trying to find out where they are and where you need to 
 be. You finally realize you're in WWII as a sgt trying to guide your troops through nazi filled 
 europe. Brothers in arms is, in short, an extremely impressive game filled with guts and glory. 
 I gathered up the money and headed to the store with a huge grin on my face as i was about to face 
 WWII in different light. Not following orders, not aim and shoot... no.... more then that, now i 
 have control of the troops with me and god willing they come out with me and not without me.
  Brothers in Arms, based on graphics, is an awesome looking game though it does have its little 
 issues. The graphics of your soldiers look rather nice just like in Call of Duty but the area has 
 a interesting look to it. While approaching buildings, walls, fences etc. everything looks beautiful 
 but once you get up close they begin to look "alright". This game certainly isn't a 10 when it 
 comes to graphics but they still look really nice and don't make you look away in shame.
  The gameplay is a little tricky it will take you a while to get all the controls down for there 
 is a lot to know. The keys are pretty scattered and you can't really mesh them too well around 
 the keyboard. I believe in this area they, Ubisoft, could have put more thought into because you 
 really get confused sometimes when it comes down to you taking fire and trying to give fire, all 
 the while you're trying to get your men in place to kill the nazi's.
  The sound as expressed earlier, is just amazing. I have always said that a good sound base is key 
 for a great game because it can put into the theme. This game has done that, it makes you feel 
 immersed in the time and the war that you're taking part in. I am playing off of a 4.1 sound system 
 and it just makes the game so much better rather then my brother's 2 speaker system. Ubisoft really 
 did well on this aspect and made you feel like you were right there giving orders on a battlefield.
 
  Now aside from the obvious categories this game has a good way of letting you give orders and 
 see where to go. In my opinion, this game does it a lot better then Full Spectrum Warrior did it. 
 Though it does have its drawbacks. You can pause time and get a birds eye view of the battle you're 
 in at the moment, though i must say the bird you're looking from is pretty damn close. This aspect 
 does not have a free moving camera the only thing you can see is the positions of your troops and 
 then, if you move the arrow keys, the position of the enemy troops. Though the drawback is that 
 if you haven't made sight of the enemy at ground lvl you're not gonna be able to pick them up on 
 the bird's eye view which makes it really hard to really tell where they are. Even though this 
 part of the game is supposed to make it easy on you, it really doesn't. Though once you have gotten 
 sight of the enemy on ground lvl you can bring them up on the bird's eye view, then its a little 
 easier to see the whole battlefield.
  Now to push aside the critiquing this game is a must have for anybody who likes the WWII genre, 
 first person shooters or commanding your own troops. Brothers in Arms is a great game and deserves 
 the score that gamespot gave it. Well, i must report back to my men, REVIEW... DISMISSED! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CBibble
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2005 5:57 am PT
Review:  Though there was a lot of hype around BiA: RtHT, it managed to pull it off with the exception of 
 a few bugs. I would, and GS too, would have rated this game much higher if it did not have so many 
 issues with being installed and generally playing the game. But once you get passed those issues 
 and get to play the game without a crash (or two) , you begin to see that this is either all it's 
 cracked up to be or crap. It is by no means DoD or CoD, so some die hard run-n-gun fans of those 
 series may have been disappointed, I on the other hand, who play those games with a little strategy 
 from time to time found BiA a great success. I was one of the lucky few who experienced to bugs 
 and excellent game play from this game. 
  
  The Game play is nothing short of brilliant. It combines the elements of a tactical shooter like 
 Full Spectrum Warrior but adds the gritty and intense feeling of war that CoD offers. Combined 
 you get a product so gritty and raw that you just can't help but duck in your chair when being 
 shot at. The fire and maneuver technique was well put together. The squad ideas work great and 
 I for one have only had a couple of instances where the AI made a mistake.
  
  The graphics were the lowest point, the general textures could have been improved on, especially 
 those at a distance but it was still well above par.
  
  The sound was amazing. All the authentic weapon sounds were put together great. The only drawback 
 on the sound was the fact that MG42's always sound like they are close by and the odd instance 
 of talking to another character and having their voice come out the wrong speaker. Other than that, 
 it was great.
  
  Brothers in Arms lived up to its hype in my opinion and is the most realistic and intense WWII 
 FPS I have every played. It revolutionized the genre and I hope to see more installments of this 
 soon to be wonderful series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeXeDOSOK
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 22, 2005 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I played about 10 minutes of this. Too many people complaining about this game not being relaistic 
 enough... what are they talking about? The aiming system is about as good as me jumping in there 
 and handling the firearm myself. Why is the elite commander of a elite squad unable to keep his 
 aim straight? I can understand for sniping seeing that you are sniping something a WAYS away. I 
 cannot aim at something pointblank without my ironsight moving all around. In real life, I'm not 
 THAT great with a gun, but I sure as hell beat the character I am playing as. The recoil is HORRIBLY 
 realistic. The size of the gun in ironsight aiming takes up 25% of the screen. Companies need to 
 stop trying to incorporate ultimate realism if they are not going to go all the way with it. And 
 those that do incorporate REALISM in their games will not be played by me.
  
  LAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cqdemal
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Since 2002, we've had at least 6 big-name World War II shooters (including expansion packs) . Sure, 
 most of them are excellent, but how many of them actually attempts to represent the war as it should 
 be? Play through Call of Duty or Medal of Honor: Allied Assault several times and soon you'll be 
 slaughtering Nazis by the hundreds using the butt of your pistol.
  
  We need a World War II shooter that doesn't play like a first-person version of Freedom Force vs. 
 The Third Reich (another great game, by the way) , and unexpectedly we get one from a developer 
 whose history is filled with console ports and expansion packs. Gearbox Software's first attempt 
 at an all-new intellectual property of their own pays back big time as Brothers in Arms: Road to 
 Hill 30 is - to put simply - the best WWII game ever made.
  
  True, you won't be seeing huge 'interactive cutscenes' like in the Call of Duty and Medal of Honor 
 games. Brothers in Arms replaces sheer adrenaline rush with a style of gameplay that actually forces 
 players to formulate strategies (albeit simple ones, and aided with some 'cheats', more on that 
 later) in order to defeat enemies. Running-and-gunning will get you killed in no time once you're 
 past the first few missions.
  
  Brothers in Arms utilizes the standard '4F' Army Doctrine: find the enemy, fix him into place with 
 suppressing fire, flank him (either by yourself or using your teammates) , and finish him. While 
 this tactic is technically the only one you can use to eliminate opposing forces in Brothers in 
 Arms, the excellent AI and level design more than make up for this seeming lack of variety. You'll 
 always be suppressing and flanking enemies, but each encounter is very different from each other, 
 which is more than I can speak for Full Spectrum Warrior, another title which attempts to employ 
 standard battle tactics. The way you control your squadmates (you even get to control tanks) is 
 surprisingly simple. Hold the right mouse button and a context-sensitive cursor pops up on the 
 screen. Point it on the ground, and your squad will move to that location. Point it at the enemy, 
 and they'll start suppressing him, complete with a handy 'Suppression Indicator' icon reporting 
 the status of your target (s) . Point and left-click on the enemy, and your troops will charge him 
 down guns blazing.
  
  Brothers in Arms also sports various touches to immerse players in its world. The usually-cluttered 
 FPS HUD is now gone - almost. There is no crosshair (although it can still be turned on in game 
 options) . This, combined with rather realistic lack of shot accuracy, makes shooting from the hip 
 almost useless if you want to actually kill someone - the iron sight is the way to go. The ammo 
 display is still located in the bottom right corner, although in a way that is perfectly unobstrusive 
 yet easy to read. The compass (complete with Medal of Honor-esque objective locator) stays in the 
 bottom left, but no health bar (nor in-game health packs) of any sort can be found, unless you 
 access the 'Situational Awareness' screen.
  
  The Situational Awareness screen gives you a bird's eyes' view of the (paused) battlefield. While 
 it is a good way to make the game 'fair', Situational Awareness toes the line between being a game-balancing 
 mechanic and a cheat. This screen can show your own, and your teammates, physical condition. Enemy 
 troops in your general vicinity is also displayed, thus allowing you to assess the situation quite 
 easily, as you can see their numbers and relative locations to your position quite clearly.
  
  Seeing as Brothers in Arms' integration of realistic combat tactics works almost flawlessly, 
 it's no surprise that the action aspects of the game also shine. The weapons all handle believably, 
 although you'll have to adapt to their relative inaccuracy (thanks to the breathing movements - 
 another realistic touch - and the aforementioned lack of a crosshair when firing from the hip) . 
 The game gives you the ideal amount of ammunition for the weapons you start out with on each mission 
 and it allows you to pick up enemy weapons as well, although you can carry no more than two pieces 
 of firearms at any given time. The grenade is bound to a separate key, Halo-style.
  
  However, Brothers in Arms isn't completely realistic, at least not on Normal difficulty. You and 
 your mates can still withstand inhuman amounts of gunfire damage before falling, although not as 
 long as in some other games (namely Medal of Honor: Allied Assault and the Hitman series) . At least, 
 the grenade still gets you in one hit.
  
  Brothers in Arms is a good-looking game. However, with visual powerhouses like Doom 3 and Half-Life 
 2 in the market, it won't make any lasting impression on the industry in this aspect. The scenery 
 looks great, characters animate convincingly, and particle effects are absolutely fantastic. Still, 
 the game's textures sometimes leave much to be desired, and the facial expressions of NPCs look 
 ancient compared to Half-Life 2.
  
  Gearbox decided to go for total realism in the sound department. That explains the lack of any 
 in-game background music. The sound effects are wonderfully done though. The weapons sound as loud 
 and menacing as they should, and your squadmates' lines are excellent in both writing and delivery 
 most of the time.
  
  Brothers in Arms also features good multiplayer, utilizing the single-player game's various unique 
 attributes to enhance online play. It also contains many unlockable contents - mostly historical 
 documents and photos, as well as the 'Authentic' difficulty level - for your unlocking pleasure.
 
  
  To sum it all up, Gearbox has done the unthinkable. The developer has produced a game that single-handedly 
 reinvigorates the tired subgenre of World War II shooters, and a masterpiece all its own. Brothers 
 in Arms: Road to Hill 30 may not be the most realistic first-person shooter ever, but it is the 
 perfect blend of fun and realism many strive - and fail - to achieve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JRob04
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2005 3:28 am PT
Review:  This is Jax04 for the Team Shadownet website and JRob04 from gamespot and i just have to say that 
 this game is amazing i love it. The best WW2 Shooter ever very intense and very fun to play. Once 
 your in your hooked and can't stop playing i gave this game a 10 out of 10! I can think of a better 
 way to put it other then just saying run out to your closest blockbuster, ebgames, or gamestop 
 and buy it right there on site. Trust me on this one you won't be disappionted! I have only played 
 this game for about 7 hours and im loving every minute of it i just cant stop playing it. WOW i 
 mean just WOW cant put the controller down action and amazing storyline thats compelling to follow. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: litledog1
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 21, 2005 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This game could have been great - but whatever they say, it is a console port, and consoles never 
 lend themselves to realism. Several often cited criticisms in terms of gameplay are the bad aiming 
 (or at least the absense of any way to change how much the iron sites move around) and the lack 
 of prone or lean buttons. As far as the 'authentic fire and manouvour tactics' which are the games 
 centre point - thats the trouble with them. It's very nice for the first half of the game, maybe 
 less than that. But after that, the levels can get repetative - some guys supress whilst others 
 move in and try and kill them from side. The levels reflect this - instead of giving Call of Duty's 
 one way of proceeding they give two or three, one always leading into the path of an MG42, the 
 other two just tools to manouvour around the back, and both leading to the same place - this is 
 far too linear compared to proper simulations of combat such as ofp... Actualy thats the only one 
 i can think of.
  
  The graphics are fine, but thats it, and they run far too slowly on my computer - which can run 
 pracitcaly all games, including flight sim 2004 and silent hunter 3 fine, full graphics, 1024*768 
 resolution.
  
  Sound is another stupid point - the sound options includes ONE volume control and thats it - surround 
 sound has to be turned on by editing a text document, and EAX (also turned on this way) cannot 
 be used on many computers because it makes everything far to echoey.
  
  So is it good? No - it was sold as an inovative WW2 shooter, but tactical 1st person games have 
 been done in the OFP series already - and to a much better standard. It is a console game in my 
 opinion - whatever the manufacturers say. For example why no prone or lean buttons? Was it realism 
 (surely the soldiers knew how to lie on their somachs?!) or was it (as in my opinion) because there 
 aren't enough controls on the xbox and playstation 2 controllers. It could have been so much more, 
 even as a console game. Pity... Pity... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjones14
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2005 11:35 pm PT
Review:  In the crowded genre of World War II shooters, and indeed, first person shooters in general, it's 
 hard to come up with a game that both breaks the mold and is still enjoyable and polished. Gearbox 
 Software, the development team also responsible for the expansion pack Opposing Force (Half-Life) , 
 has done just this. In fact, the game is so obvious in its authenticity and quality that the Veterans 
 of Foreign Wars fully endorses this game.
  
  Authenticity. That is the word that you will hear most associated with this game. When are (literally) 
 dropped into this maelstrom of fighting and death, you will be hit, again and again, by both graphic 
 images of war and moving conversations that provide insight into your soldiers' lives. The movement, 
 tactics, vehicles, weapons, hand signals, and uniforms are all authentic right down to the button. 
 Gearbox spared no expense in researching at many museums and memorials around the world. Normandy 
 has been mapped down to the yard. 
  Everything you see in this game was there 60 years ago, exactly as it appears in the game.
  
 
  First, the gameplay. The first few levels help show you the game's mechanics via hints that pop-up 
 and little videos that show the various features of the game. The game doesn't start you right 
 off with the responsibility of leading a squad of men. Instead, you slowly accrue the rest of your 
 unit as you complete the missions around Normandy. The game's chapters are all based the actual 
 actions that the 502nd, your unit, took during and immediately after D-Day. The game controls like 
 a normal first person shooter, albeit with no prone or lean keys. This is to discourage players 
 from sniping enemies or remaining stationary. The key to this game is suppressing the enemy with 
 one team and flanking with the other. The game includes toggle-able icons that show an enemy's 
 current 'suppression-level', for lack of a better term. All commands are issued with the click 
 of a button. You don't have to micromanage your men; in fact, they can think pretty well on their 
 own. Just tell the team leader where you want him to put his men, and it'll get done. There are 
 no crosshairs, so you have to use the iron sights. This both makes the player pause while aiming 
 (your movement is slowed dramatically while using the sights) and makes the player have reduced 
 peripheral vision while sighting an enemy. Aim too long in a vulnerable spot, and you may not even 
 notice the enemy to your side taking aim at you. In addition to a suppressing team and a flanking 
 team, you can also command tanks at certain points, whose mechanics work the same as commanding 
 men.
  
  One big impressive feature of Brothers in Arms is the AI. Your men are intelligent and don't need 
 the babysitting that other games of this genre would have you do. Likewise, the enemy is ruthless 
 and intelligent. This is the only first person shooter, in history, to actually have an enemy that 
 will take cover and be suppressed by your or your team's fire. It really feels like you're fighting 
 humans that have a will to live rather than mindless automatons that simply run at you.
  
  Graphics and sound are very good in this game. The bloom effect is used throughout to give the 
 game a nice outdoor look. The overcast skies in particular look very realistic. Uniforms and weapons 
 are all impressive, and have a decent amount of kick to them. Models and effects are all detailed. 
 Sound is especially impressive. You will be taken aback the first time you hear an MG42 firing 
 on your position while your men hurredly take cover. The maps are all fairly small, but are extremely 
 detailed and give you a good range of options for taking out those pesky Nazi scum. This is a graphically 
 violent game in the vein of Band of Brothers or Saving Private Ryan. The violence isn't overdone 
 (no insta-gibbing enemies) , but it also does not sugarcoat the effects the bullet has on the human 
 body. Some swearing is here too, but it's not gratuitous or in bad taste - these men are desperate 
 and frenzied.
  
  Multiplayer is also used to great effect in this game. Unlike other games, where simple modes such 
 as deathmatch or capture the flag exist, BIA opts for a different route. With a max of 2v2, and 
 each player controlling one or two teams (2-3 men each) , the players are given objectives such 
 as taking codebooks or destroying german artillery pieces. These maps are all original, and are 
 not copied from the single-player portion of the game. 
  
  The length of the game would have to be my sole complaint. At around 12 hours for the average player, 
 it's not exactly a marathon gaming experience. However, there are different "extra's" such as images 
 or videos that are unlocked by completing the chapters with the three different difficulty levels. 
 You can also unlock the "Authentic" difficulty level, which eliminated saves, all icons, and makes 
 the enemies much tougher.
  
  In conclusion, this game is a refreshing and original look on the Greatest War. It can even be 
 considered a tribute to what these men endured for our sake. There are so many nuances to this 
 game that it wouldn't be practical to mention them all in this review. Just know that this game 
 gets you as close as you'll be able to get to combat in a video game. Not only will you have a 
 great time, but you'll learn a heck of a lot about the war and what really transpired on that fateful 
 patch of ground called Normandy. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngryFarmer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 20, 2005 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I want to make a point that I am a die hard Call of Duty fan and its understandable to note my 
 scepticism when I heard of a new WW2 themed game on the horizon. Regardless of my inner fears, 
 I popped over to my local Game and pocketed myself a copy for 35. The first thing that truly amazed 
 me about this game was the sheer level of authenticity. From the battered streets of Carentan to 
 the ridges on my Tommy gun, everything felt and sounded just right.
  
  Hoping to play as I always do, I booted up the game and found myself dead. Straight away I was 
 lying on the floor, blood in front of my eyes. So I tried again and once again I found myself face 
 up on the dirty gravel. I could tell this was going to be different. This game has achieved something 
 nearly all over games of this type have tried and failed to do. It has combined in depth realism 
 with fantastic gameplay creating what is arguably, the finest blend of swearing, guns and blood 
 ever seen in a game.
  
  For those of you worrying, the tactical aspect is spot on. It removes the fiddly frustration from 
 Rainbow Six or Ghost Recon and replaces it with a simple yet deadly one-button command system which 
 is implemented so well, you could find yourself forgetting that you are actually clicking and not 
 shouting commands at your men.
  
  This moves me on into my next observation: AI. The men on your screen are alive. Both Allies and 
 Germans hide, shoot, swear and run as real people would in the heat of battle. This is possibly 
 the first game ever where it is actually really difficult to kill someone. Call of Duty was intense, 
 yes. But on the scale of things it really was very unrealistic. This has all changed and here you 
 really will be scared of all those bullets whizzing past your head, not to mention the scream of 
 falling mortar fire and the shock it leaves you with after landing but a few feet away.
  
  On the whole, this has been for me the finest blend of realism and fun every achieved. It may be 
 hard but with the perfect squad mechanics, youll just keep coming back for more.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobrandan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2005 2:39 am PT
Review:  All I have to say is wow, when I first began to play this game I couldnt take my eyes of it. Brothers 
 in arms revolutionizes the WW2 FPS. This game combines COD, Day of Defeat, and Full spectrum all 
 into one. The realism is by far the best in any WW2 shooter I have seen, and just the breathtaking 
 atmosphere of the game totally takes you into the shoes of a soldier of WW2. 
  
  Overall great game, sound, graphics, and game play, all top notch. The only down fall is for people 
 who do not have a DVD-ROM, as it was only released as PC DVD-ROM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 19, 2005 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Lately there seems to be a rash of games for gamers like me -- those who often tire of the constant, 
 adrenaline pumping action of most FPS games, but also far too casual in their gaming discipline 
 to pick up complex squad-based tactical games. Chronicles of Riddick was a game that seemed to 
 capture the best of the action and stealth FPS sub-genres. This game finds the middle road between 
 adrenaline and depth.
  
  Controling your squad is easy enough. Just tell them where to go with the right mouse button. The 
 game's AI is smart enough (most of the time) to do the right thing without the gamer having to 
 be too specific. And that's that. Of course, the game throws some complicated situations at you 
 that require you to think things through more carefully, but the complexity is always about where 
 you need to send your guys, not how to get them there. And that makes all the difference.
  
  What really makes the game work is that your guys aren't just globs of polygons bouncing around 
 the screen and who don't register with you psychologically. In other WWII FPS games, the characters 
 simply have no depth. They'll fall on the battlefield and it doesn't register with you - after 
 all, they're really just there to help you survive. This game changes that by making your squadmates 
 feel like real people. Granted, they don't really die in the game (they come back for each new 
 mission, even if they died in the previous one) , and that undercuts what could have been a meaningful 
 storytelling tool. But it adds a bit of depth to the game that doesn't exist in other WWII FPS 
 games.
  
  That said, the tactics can become a bit tedious after awhile. In a lot of ways, the game is a bit 
 of a one-trick pony. Suppress and manuever, suppress and manuever. That's fine for one game, and 
 actually enough of an innovation that it really does remain fresh enough for the whole game. But 
 really, the procedure for making it through any mission is really a variation on one tune. It's 
 creative enough for one game, but if there's a sequel they're going to need more than this.
  
  Graphics were fine overall, but nothing to write home about. At times the textures seemed blurry. 
 There seemed to be a fair bit of clipping problems (which, oddly enough, seem to be quite common 
 in a lot of the newer games, including the aforementioned Chronicles of Riddick) . Strange since 
 it seemed developers had gotten a handle on that in the previous generation of games.
  
  Voice acting in the game is excellent, and the game's cinematics are top notch, which goes a long 
 way to making the story feel authentic and connect you to the missions and the guys you're fighting 
 with.
  
  The reality of the game, which has been its selling point, is a bit overblown. Real missions, real 
 guys, yeah I get it. It works to a point, but let's be honest here - as advanced as today's games 
 are, they are still extrodinarily unrealistic, and this game is no exception. Visually the game 
 might be based on real locations and the weapons are modeled after actual weapons used. But the 
 gameplay mechanics are so far removed from reality that it seems wrong to claim otherwise.
  
  That's not to say this game isn't good - because it is. I think gamers would be more content 
 with it, however, if the developers cut back on the hype a bit. The game will challenge you and 
 entertain you once, but really there is no replay value here, at least for the single player mode 
 (which is all I ever play, really) . Like any game with a gimmick, this one eventually wears out 
 its welcome. Granted, this game has got an intriguing and fun gimmick, but in the end it doesn't 
 escape from its destiny.
  
  I recommend this game, and if you're a WWII fanatic, go out and buy it. If you like slower paced 
 games like I do, go buy it. But otherwise, I'd recommend you wait for it to arrive in the bargain 
 bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19734739732876576485538515389630-elLOCOmutha
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 19, 2005 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Take the test...
  Play one hour of BIA singleplayer (multiplayer is terrible)
  
  then
  
  Play one hour of CoD/CoDUO singleplayer
  This will prove that in the first opening scenes 
 of CoD/CoDUO you get more on the edge of your seat excitement.. than you ever do in BIA
  My opinion wait till its in the bargain bin (not a long wait)
  
  The game plays out in more 
 of a saving private ryan movie style to it.. but... This game just dissappoints all the way around 
 in every other aspect.
  People may argue that BIA is more tactical... which it tries to be but... I think it just feels like 
 a cartoon gone wrong. Sure you get more blood, guts and swearing in the game but when it really 
 boils down to it these things do not increase good gameplay they are just eye candy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 19, 2005 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This game has been promoted a lot as the most realistic war game out there. Normally this kind 
 of hype is quickly teared apart and shred to bits by serious reviewers, but with this game it did 
 not happen, not here at GameSpot at least.
  
  The game offers one new element to this kind of game: You have to suppress the enemy by firing 
 at them, then flank them and kill them. And all reviews I have seen boasts about this feature, 
 as the ultimate realistic gaming experience.
  
  Well, SORRY, it is not. In fact, this only innovative thing in the entire game is repeated and 
 repeated until the tedious. Suppress, flank, kill, suppress, flank, kill etc. In fact, if you do 
 not obey this forced way of playing the game, you will die. Forget about killing the enemy from 
 a distance for example, the game engine simply will not allow it. Seeing all reviewers going nuts 
 about this new feature amazes me, as it gets old very quickly and sacrifices a lot of good things 
 found in normal FPS games to elbow itself in to the game.
  
  It would not be so bad if the game is not so linear. The game designers are forcing you to follow 
 a narrow path to your targets, making you feel almost like you are inside in a maze, and giving 
 you extremely limited freedom on how to attack your targets. 
  
  Normally this game design technique is used to cover up for bad enemy AI, as the enemy might seem 
 smarter if you can only attack them in a way the game designers can control. Pretty lame, and after 
 excellent open terrain shooters like Far Cry, this kind of game design really should be considered 
 obsolete. You can just as well rent a war movie, using the pause/rewind/play buttons will simulate 
 the interactive parts of the game pretty well. This game is so linear it almost gave me a claustrophobic 
 feeling.
  
  And the game does not stop being unrealistic here. Your team mates, that you are supposed to become 
 emotionally attached to, will just go back to life after each mission, making wether they live 
 or die unimportant after all. Another easy way out of a tricky game design problem. Not to mention 
 how unrealistic the weapons operate. You can shoot an enemy in the face two meters away from him, 
 and he will still come charging at you and kill you by hitting you with his gun. Ridiculous. 
 
  
  I guess I am giving the game a harder time than I normally would, but it kind of provokes me it 
 is getting all the undeserved good reviews, when the only new thing they have to offer is to pull 
 this suppress fire thing over your head. In my opinion it fails horribly as what it is supposed 
 to be, a realistic war simulator.
  
  Too bad, the atmosphere is good, also I like the concept of playing real historical battles, and 
 obviously a lot of time and effort has gone into the game. But watching an authentic war movie 
 should be a better option.
  
  Problem is, the FPS market is way overcrowded, and this one is just another one in the crowd, trying 
 desperately to stand out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenbenpang04
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2005 10:43 am PT
Review:  I have played a lot of WWII games before, both FPS and strategy. Like Medal of Honor , Call of 
 Duty, Blitzkrieg, Panzer... This game is a mix of strategy and intense FPS. You have to give good 
 orders to your squads in order to win, gunning skill is not the most important because your squad 
 can do it for you. They are the best AIs I have ever seen, they don't just sit around and do nothing, 
 they are extremely useful. All WWII games failed to combine strategy and shooting elements, but 
 this suceeded. If you have played Full Spectrum Warrior before, you will know how you control the 
 squad, but this game allows you to pull the trigger. And there is a lot of great fun! 
  This game is very realistic, you will see blood when you are shot, see mud when in chaos, the sounds 
 are great, the effects are excellent. The singleplayer is very cinematic, successfully bring you 
 into the mood. 
  The multiplayer is imaginative, each player control a team of AI and fight against the other player's 
 team. I enjoy it very much, but I would also be glad if there are classic Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch. 
 
  If you used to play games like Half Life 2, this game might be pretty difficult for you, because 
 you die easily. 
  Why are you still reading this? Don't hesitate! I promise this game is the best WWII shooter, buy 
 it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kraut04
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2005 5:28 am PT
Review:  I don't write reviews all theat much unless a game really impresses me or really dissappoints me. 
 This one is simply impressive in every way. Sure their are flaws that future games in the series (hoping 
 they continues the series) will hopefully eliminate, but is definitly by far the best WWII FPS i 
 have ever played. I have always loved war strategy and have read book after book on war history 
 especially in th era of WWII. This is a game that the single player grabs a hold of you and makes 
 you think rather than the many WWII shooters that have more of an unreal tournament feel than war 
 strategy. i hated how in most WWII shooters you would be able to just run and spray and you never 
 felt afraid of a MG42 gun position. In this game you charge and enemy position with abandon and 
 no plan you will DIE!! on easy difficulty levels you can but not many play those levels anyway. 
 You buy this for its tactics and intensity of war. You wanna just run around killing nazis COD 
 and MOH is more your style. But don't criticize the games that go the extra step and immerse you 
 into a more real WWII universe. COD: UO is an awesome game as it made you feel a part of and army 
 as a single grunt. BIA took that to a new level by instead of scripted charges and ally movements... 
 you can actually control how and where a battle takes place. Graphics are excellent. Come what 
 do you expect DOOM3 graphics in that open of space. not going to happen in this generation games. 
 I think the battlefields ar much more lifelike than COD or MOH. 
  Some say the maps are on the smaller side and i have to agree but they do seem much wider than 
 the single player in previous WWII shooters adding to the many ways of appraoching a situation. 
 Controling your men is fairly simple though at times the men don't understand completely this is 
 very rare. The satisfaction of unloading on an enemy position from the flank or rear when they 
 think your infront of them is awesome. Oh, the accuracy issue that so many have problems with is 
 perfect in my opinion. you try firing at someone with a high powered rifle 30-40 yds away with 
 MG42 bullets whizing over head and mortars falling all around you and try to get an accurate shot 
 considering wind, gun kick back, and fatigue. You will have to put alot more effort into it and 
 that makes it all the better without making it impossible. Somewhat more difficult shooting/aiming 
 but the best to date.
  Things i would add to the game if i could though are 1: the prone postion. so many times i wanted 
 to but couldn't. 2: Tanks in multiplayer make it a 3Pv3P. 3: Ability to turn emplaced anti tank 
 guns on enemies.
  Overall this game is just amazing!!! Finally a FPS game that compliments the strategist and discourages 
 the retardedly unrealistic run and spray free for all. Looking forward to future games like this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taopix
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 19, 2005 5:19 am PT
Review:  Being a fan of Call Of Duty and Medal Of Honor, i've been looking foward to this game from the 
 day i first heard about it. In a nutshell, i'm very satisfied with the quality of this game. the 
 sound's impressive, the A. I. is quite good (firing automatically and taking cover and stuff) although 
 sometimes act stupid and disobey orders. the gameplay and pacing is surely very different from 
 any other action game i've played, it feels weird sometimes but when u got your firing squad pinning 
 a helpless german down while you flank them with your assault team and in the end filling 'em full 
 of leads while they're not looking, i feel like i'm a real marine that kicks arse! the sound really 
 helps you get in the mood and it really makes you feel like doing the real thing. very, very impressive. 
 could be better if it's in 5.1!! are they stupid or what?! i don't understand why this game is 
 not in 5.1.
  The graphic is not that good though, and the loading time is ridiculous, considering that the graphic 
 is not that heavy. and i'm also very dissapointed in the multiplayer department coz of the 'no 
 co-op' thing. i just don't understand why those guys at gearbox left this out. you cannot team 
 up with your friend against the computer in multiplayer, and the only way to play it is against 
 human opponent. i hope the mod community could fix this up.
  So, in a nutshell, if you like ww2 fps, you gotta get this. this game is quite challenging and 
 you really have to think fast in order to beat it. it's kind of short though. well done gearbox 
 you've done a great job but i'm still was hoping for a better game. Can't wait for Bia2 hehe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_beautiful_lie
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 19, 2005 4:27 am PT
Review:  Ok, I'm a huge CSS/CoD player and honestly this game isn't good. 1. The voice acting is horrible, 
 which for some reason really bugs me. 2. The graphics are great... for a game released in 2002. 
 3. It just feels wrong. I mean the guns in CoD seemed to fire and feel good. The guns in this game 
 just feel off. It's like they took an arcade game and put WW2 skins on everything. I think they 
 spent all their money making this game look good in ads and then ran out of money to actually shore 
 up the game. I hate to be critical but it's really gonna be a horrible investment. Wait til it's 
 priced at 20 dollars cause that would probably be an acceptable price for the quality you'll get. 
 If you really want a WW2 go for CoD or MOH PA, hell even MOH AA would be better than this even 
 though it's so outdated and that would cost you like 20 bucks for the game and both expansions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John_Kelly
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 19, 2005 12:45 am PT
Review:  I must say, I have not anticipated a PC game as much for quite some time, but I am so terribly 
 disappointed. The graphics are no better than Call of Duty and they missed the sound of the MG42, 
 my favorite weapon.
  
  A panzerfaust 60 will penetrate 200mm of armor, but in the game, it would not even destroy a PzIV 
 with mutliple hits. The PzIV Ausf J only had 80mm of armor. I thought is was supposed to be so 
 realistic. This PzIV is an E or a variant with much less armor. Come on.
  
  My squad is just as stupid as can be. During a mortar barrage, the fools refused to take cover 
 in spite of my orders. Predictably, they die. So, I start the checkpoint over, and over, and over. 
 I had hoped all of the hype would be true, and that I would grow attached to my men. It's not a 
 big deal if they die, because they re-spawn in the next level.
  
  Finally, it is virtually impossible to hit anything. I have tried every possible angle with the 
 iron sights, but I can't seem to hit the enemy. However, they don't have trouble hitting me. I 
 haven't been this disappointed in a long time. Boo Gear Box. I paid $50 for this? Give me Call 
 of Duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahger
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 18, 2005 11:26 pm PT
Review:  First impressions:
  
  It's different. I applaud the boldness and the consistency of execution. It is slightly annoying 
 at first to have to switch to iron sights in order to be able to hit anything (you cannot hit even 
 a stationary, mid-range object when firing from the hip) but the tradeoff is that it is immersive, 
 it magifies the authentic "fog of war" atmosphere and the game plays fair in that, as long as you 
 have some cover and/or suppressive support, you will not get killed while transitioning to iron 
 sights. Even with the iron sight, BIA's weapons do not make you a super-soldier; recoil is an enormous 
 factor and any incoming fire will also throw your aim off, again emphasizing the need for cover 
 and tactical support. The result of all this is to make the game's pace slower, more deliberate 
 than the conventional shooter, but no less involving. I think you'd have to be crazy to play this 
 game with a recticle enabled and almost certifiable to want a save-where-you-like system (see below) .
 
  
  I fully endorse the lack of an in-game save feature and I never thought I'd hear myself say that. 
 The challenge in BIA is to play like your life (and that of your team) is on the line; how can 
 you do this if there is always the possibility of a trial-and-error approach? The save-points neccesitate 
 making tactical decisions under pressure. They are not spaced too far apart, just far enough to 
 present a realistic challenge. Again, kudos to the designers for their courage in going against 
 the grain of conventional shooter gameplay in order to come up with something unique. It works.
 
  
  The weapons are terrific. They really feel and sound analogue, i. e. mechanical. They are not supposed 
 to be extensions of the player's mouse-hand. In this game they are tools; deadly but subject to 
 recoil, limited in terms of magazine-size and only as effective as the player's tactics. I wonder 
 if they ever thought about weapons jamming? It's also a great, bold move that grenades are not 
 "aimed" with a visible trajectory cursor. Instead it's more like it must have been IRL: pull, throw 
 and run/shoot. And unlike SWAT 4, you revert automatically to your primary weapon as soon as the 
 frag goes out. Grenades should be a suppressive weapon, not a super-frag and BIA implements this 
 superbly.
  
  Graphically, the soldiers are a bit goofy and Gearbox was ill-advised to have attempted to sell 
 them as emotionally expressive, interactive NPCs a la HALF LIFE 2; their engine just cannot meet 
 those levels of expectation. Having said that, what is impressive about the graphics in BIA is 
 the topographical and environmental detail which convinces you like no game before (certainly not 
 COD, which I liked for what it was) that the Normandy offensive was fought in farmyards and churchyards, 
 in villages and among hedgerows. Birds fly up from behind trees, dead livestock litter the landscape, 
 there are abandoned tractors and town squares, this is a battlefield that was somebody's home until 
 twenty four hours ago. It's full of life, it's as though peoples' cars still have gas in them and 
 their larders are still full of fresh food. No other game has done this. In addition the grass 
 and water effects are terrific and scalable in-game, yet more proof that this is not a cheesy port. 
 Here's the bottom line: BIA's attention to graphical detail makes you believe that you are fighting 
 in the back yard of your own civilization (after all, this is France, not Afghanistan) and that 
 is precisely the significance of D-Day and it's aftermath. 
  
  The top-down SA view is interesting but aggravating at times. Controlling its rotation with the 
 mouse is so loose and imprecise that it's nausea-inducing and there are all sorts of arbitrary 
 limitations on point-of-view.
  
  I hate to say this, but some of the dialogue is hokey and for all the "authentic" cursing (which 
 doesn't bother me) the game does not rise to anything like BAND OF BROTHERS' level of craft in 
 reenacting the dynamics and poetry of GI life at this pivotal moment in history. The game tends 
 to hammer you over the head with its earnestness here and whereas the intent is good, you feel 
 a little bit bullied by it at times, especially when you are forced to listen to your avatar's 
 over-portentous snippets of philosophical dialogue at the beginning of each chapter.
  
  Finally, marker placement for the positioning of your teams can be a little quirky and you will 
 end up sending them to their deaths occasionally, not because of bad tactical decisions but because 
 the system can be a little imprecise, like the quirky SA view rotation. It's good but it does not 
 eat FULL SPECTRUM WARRIOR for breakfast, something I had to say because FSW is getting unjustly 
 dissed all over the place in BIA reviews...
  
  Here's the key fact: BIA is not about killing, it's about taking and holding ground. BIA is really 
 a hybrid FPS/light infantry tactical simulator, and if you expect the former to take precedence 
 over the latter then COD really is more suited to your gameplay requirements.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eclipt1c
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 18, 2005 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft must have a fetish for releasing squad games (see: Ghost Recon and Rainbow Six) , and this 
 game is just another. The game play seems to become very repetative extremely fast. However, somehow, 
 this repetativeness works well with the game. You're constantly being faced with basically the 
 same situation, you on one side of a wall, and the enemy on the other side of another wall. However, 
 with the squad mechanic, you're at liberty to decide how you want to dispatch the enemy depending 
 on whatever you feel like. I just always feel an odd sensation whenever playing the game, it's 
 the same situation, but somehow its always interesting and engaging. People have been calling it 
 the natural successor to Call of Duty, however I must disagree. The game is being touted as the 
 most realistic war game yet, and yet it hardly feels more realistic than Call of Duty, especially 
 with the rediculous inaccuracy with every gun in the game, even when aiming down the iron sights 
 fight at the torso of an enemy. Although the single player does seem a little more engaging than 
 either Call of Duty's, the multiplayer seems to be lacking greatly at this point, and there truly 
 only is so much they can throw into a squad based game to liven up the multiplayer experience.
 
  
  Conclusion: if you're not really interested in multiplayer, Brothers in Arms seems like a good 
 choice to make. However, if you like a so called less realistic game that seems to be more fun 
 and definately has more replay value through the multiplayer, pick up Call of Duty: UO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDbum
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 18, 2005 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I do not reccomend paying 50 dollars for this game. Of course the issue of money here is relative, 
 depending on your wealth. I'm a student and I regret buying this game. I'm not going to go into 
 a full review... but frankly, the game gets tedious and trite very fast. It's pretty much the same 
 tactics over and over again. I don't remember many great sequences other than a charge through 
 fog, or on a macrabe level... gunning down a table full of defenseless germans having lunch. I loved 
 the openess and expansive world of Operation Flashpoint. The squad tactics used were much much 
 more diverse... i mean, the military even uses that game as squad based simulators.... and people 
 call this game very realistic? Well, i suppose realistic compared to the run and gun style of call 
 of duty but it doesn't set the bar much higher. The conventional and cliche poetics of sgt. Baker 
 is just another thorn in your side. 
  
  I admire the realism and attempts to force players to implement and suppressing maneuvers to kill 
 the enemy, but that's virtually the only way you can kill them in this game. The weapon scheme's 
 are also very clunky. Many times i'll stay crouched for minutes and have my crosshairs fixed on 
 the skull of a standing german, only to have the bullet magically swerve 10 times. A good example 
 is the M1 Grand. Many times i've found it to be more accurate firing from your hip than crouching 
 and aiming with the iron sights. 
  
  There's virtually zero chance to hit an enemy head on, so again, you're forced with the redundant 
 Find, Fix, Flank, and Finish manuever. Because of this find, fix, flank, and finish, the levels 
 are very linear and you're basically baby-sat and mouthfed tactics. There's zero open space, it's 
 very limited by boundries and barries. So it becomes obvious where one must go to flank the enemy. 
 
  
  Furthermore, the story is very weak. The objectives and missions you played seemed very fractured 
 with no relation to another. I'm sure there was in real life but the way the game's narrative was 
 developed, it simply came to to just following orders with mission to mission. The "Road to Hill 
 30" is a very windy, disconnected, and foggy road indeed.
  
  This horse vocied lietuent that bosses you around and gives you briefings is very sloppily integrated 
 into the game. This has nothing to do with gameplay but just another thing for me to rant about. 
 He'll tell you to do this, do that, telling you you'll be hugely outnumbered and might die on this 
 mission... then he just jets off. Then when you complete the level, that same lieutenet just pops 
 up out of nowhere and says "good job" and blah blah. This happens on numerous occasions.
  Oh yea, don't worry about losing you're buddies either, they magically respawn the next level when 
 they get killed. It's funny when you're squadmates will scream "Garret!" or "Harstock!" when they 
 die... as if they'll never see them again, yet you know full well theyll be back for the next mission. 
 So in conclusion, the story and drama is weak.
  
  On a personal level, i'm frankly getting tired of these "Brothers in Arms, Men of Valor, Medal 
 of Honor, We Were Soldiers, Call of Duty" esque type games. 50 years after the war, we still cannot 
 fathome to make a game based on the other side's perspective. The german's are people too who died 
 by the houndred of thousands, not to mention the japanese. There's obviously a lot of taboo surrounding 
 this touchy subject, especially the concept of killing you're own countrymen, however, crystaliztion 
 of our attitudes of the opposing side dehumanizes war even further. Such emphasis on brotherhood 
 as if only existing on the allied sides is very ethnocentric. The germans had comradery too, which 
 must've been much greater. I mean, put yourself in their shoes.... You're losing a war, you're country 
 is on the verge of defeat... who do you have to fall back on? Your fellow soldiers of course. However, 
 again, my argument is very weak since I am speaking in the realm of video and entertainment, so 
 postuatling ethics and equality in shooting games is like telling counter strike players not to 
 cuss over the mics as I shoot them in the head with my Deagle. 
  
  I finished the game in one sitting on medium difficulty (with supression indicators turned off) . 
 I'm selling my copy on Amazon right now. So if you do buy the game and don't like it, just sell 
 it on ebay or amazon. In the end, it should only cost you 10 dollars to actually play the game. 
 
  
  This game entertained me for a few hours, nothing more. 
  
  Wait for a sale if you need this game.
  
  
  On a brighter note, the AI in the game is pretty 
 good. I also admire the limited save points as it builds tension to the firefights, as well as 
 frustration.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: terminus
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 17, 2005 11:28 pm PT
Review:  First, I would like to say this game is very hard on my eyes.... even with 16x filtering and 1600/1200 
 resolution with everything maxed out, the game looks very old. I know graphics arent everything, 
 but come on. The game has some decent water and lighting effects however. Gun detail is lame, characters 
 are ok, terrain is subpar. The gameplay would have been better if was just a shooter.... what I 
 mean is that you can have your sights right on enemy.... but rarely hit them if their behind cover, 
 even close up encounters you will miss alot.... this game tries to incorporate a strategy/simulation 
 element to the game.... but I'm not sure it works all too well. I'm still early in the game, although 
 I will probably finish it soon if my eyes can take it and give you a revised score.
  
  Lots of games are getting over-rated lately, this is definately a possible runner-up... maybe I'm 
 wrong.... maybe this game will be very good as a game in the end.... but I highly doubt it.... when 
 your blessed with titles like farcry, riddick, and halflife2 to name a few.... you just expect more 
 with todays titles.
  
  Look for a final review in a couple of days..... later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evanrock
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 17, 2005 5:59 pm PT
Review:  This game I could write much text on, but I will leave you with this piece of advice. I am a FPS 
 consumer and have played every WW2 game out there. BROTHERS IN ARMS smokes on CoD and MoH Franchises..... It 
 is a masterpiece of dedication and research.
  CoD and MoH were great games at the time, But a few years later and they are mediocre in comparison.
 
  
  If you do not try this game, more like artwork, You will only be missing out on the next generation 
 of FPS PC Software products.
  
  
  Thank You Ubisoft and thanks to GearBox for their constant effort and passion to finally make a 
 WW2 game that is realistic, not blanketed by the Rating of "Teen". In a Market where the majority 
 of games are targeted towards the Teen demographic, they finally stepped up and sacrificed selling 
 more units to 13 year olds, in order to finally make us ADULT consumers happy; by rating the game 
 Mature, per se.
  
  get It !!!!!
  
  Evan
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vandalvideo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 17, 2005 3:41 pm PT
Review:  We PC gamers have been heavily bombarded with FPS within the last few months. It's not surprising 
 that another big title would be soon on the heels of games like HL2. But how does said game stack 
 up against the big leagues? Well the answer may leave you with fifty extra bucks sitting in your 
 wallet. The game has a decent sound score, impressive gameplay, and mediocre graphics. So lets 
 see how this gulosh of goodness combines to make "Brothers In Arms".
  
  When you start up the game, you're introduced to Sgt. Matt Baker of the 101st airborne. This is 
 where the game's voice acting and sound score truly shine. Through cutscenes inbetween missions, 
 Baker's voice actor does a splendid job of portraying the emotions of the 101st airborne. The music 
 in the game much resembles a quazi "Thin Red Line" sound track. All the sounds in the game, from 
 muzzle shots to tank treads, are wonderfully executed to take good use of your listening pleasure.
 
  
  While the sound department is stabile, the graphics are somewhat disappointing. When playing the 
 game, it feels like your in the middle of a chick mud wrestling match, not that that would be bad 
 in any way. The grimy textures and unrealistic lighting tend to divert the player's attention from 
 the actual gameplay, sometimes making you go "ewwww". When compared to games like Doom 3 and Half-Life 
 2, this game's graphics simple does not compare.
  
  The final thing on the list is how the game actually plays. It is a mixture between strategy and 
 all out FPSing, while the strategy at times can be lacking. You control your squad with a "command 
 circle" which functions as a multi-command issueing ring. All your commands are issued through 
 this ring, ranging from "Supress Fire!" to "Rush the Enemy like idiots". That brings me to the 
 A. I., which at times can be extremely unreliable. Your squad and your enemies both make extremely 
 poor decisions, often getting themselves killed. I remember one time when I was in an open field 
 behind some cover. I told the firing squad to move up, expecting them to go through the ditch around 
 the MG. Nope, smart ones ran right into the spray of bullets and got punctered. 
  
  While the sound is great, voice acting great, graphics mediocre, and gameplay somewhat lacking, 
 this game makes a decent play. If you can get past some of the game's weakpoints, which are extremely 
 apparent, then this game will be worth that hefty 50 dollar price tag. Would I recommend this game?
 
  
  "Wait for a demo." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guapsrocks
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 17, 2005 2:12 am PT
Review:  I dont know if this is a game of the year contender but I really was impressed with the mechanics 
 of the game. The control of the squad is really easy and their AI is pretty impressive. You wont 
 find these guys standing around waiting to get shot like Ive seen in other Squad control type FPS's. 
 
  I really liked the detail level in the game. There is sort of a private Ryan movie "haze" effect 
 that really adds to the realism. The sounds are top notch and really bring you into the combat 
 scenes. The game also has a great story line which sucks you in like a good movie plot.
  The maps are not as big as I would have liked, and though you have some room to flank and move 
 around your enemy your still limited to "Barrier" walls which take away from the effect of realism. 
 I found myself saying oftenLike I wouldnt be able to jump that little fense!" I wanted more 
 freedem to even wonder out of the combat area, or right into the middle of it!... So the battles 
 are somewhat linear by design.
  ( Oh and prone position would have been nice instead of just crouching.)
  
  Im about halfway 
 through the missions now and I can tell you im still having fun. Im playing on the middle setting 
 and its extreamly hard. You wont just send your men straight out at a german machine gun postion 
 and expect them to live.
  You gotta use your head in this game for sure.
  
  I also like the situational view. This allows you to plan your attack by seeing the action from 
 different views anytime during the action by pressing the V key.
  
  All in all a very good game and worth the money. This one is a keeper on my shelf for sure!
  
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
