-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/brothersinarms3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great blend of squad control and first-person combat.
 Vibrant, detailed environments.
 Battlefield sounds will put you on edge.
 Interesting characters.
 Action camera is exhilarating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story relies overmuch on knowledge of past games.
 Texture irregularities can sour cutscenes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 15, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.0, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,602 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Gearbox Software
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Oct 7, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hell's Highway proves to be an exciting, engaging ride despite a few bumps along the way. 

  The first two games in the Brothers in Arms series distinguished themselves among the crowd of 
 WWII shooters on the strength of their smoothly integrated first-person squad control and gritty, 
 moving portrayal of a band of Allied soldiers. Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway sticks to these 
 strengths, and commanding your squads through Nazi-occupied territory is more thrilling than ever 
 thanks to the vibrant, beautiful scenery and the brutal, exhilarating action. Sergeant Baker (your 
 character) and his squad are all nuanced, sympathetic characters, though the story doesn't quite 
 live up to the promise of its protagonists. Despite a few irregular beats, Hell's Highway is an 
 exciting, intense shooter that is sure to quicken your pulse.  

  This go-around finds Sergeant Matt Baker and his crew carrying the memories of their fallen brothers 
 and welcoming replacements into the fold. As they get set to drop into Holland as a part of the 
 ambitious but doomed Operation Market-Garden, you meet the men whose lives you will be responsible 
 for. The story isn't so much a narrative as it is an exploration of the relationships between soldiers; 
 it's a mature look at the way bonds can be forged and broken in the emotional furnace of war. Through 
 engaging cutscenes and lively battlefield communication, you'll find yourself developing an attachment 
 to these characters. Many great moments, both comic and tragic, resonate with an admirable emotional 
 clarity that unflinchingly evokes the turbid reality of war, where triumph and tragedy walk hand 
 in hand.  

           Destructible elements add to the realistic flavor.      

  Unfortunately, some of these potentially great moments will fall flat if you're not well acquainted 
 with old characters like Leggett, Allen, and Garnett. Hell's Highway often tries to lean on emotional 
 pillars created by traumas from the first two games (both released in 2005) , but the "previously 
 on Brothers in Arms" segment isn't solid enough to support these references, and the framework 
 crumbles a bit as a result. As the game progresses you'll gain the knowledge needed to prop up 
 these references; this makes a second play-through more appealing, but it's a shame this understanding 
 isn't established earlier.  

  Once on the battlefield, your comrades become potent weapons at your command. Hell's Highway offers 
 a tutorial on the proper way to manage your squads, and you'd best pay attention, since going it 
 alone will get you into trouble in a hurry. Strategy boils down to firing on German positions to 
 keep them suppressed, then flanking around to a better angle and finishing them off. Your men are 
 capable soldiers and will shout advice at you if you seem to be stagnating. They will also do their 
 fair share of killing but are still occasionally liable to run on the wrong side of a wall when 
 ordered to a different position. It hurts to lose one of your men in battle, regardless of the 
 fact that he'll be patched up at your next checkpoint. You are their commander and they are entrusting 
 their lives to you, a weight expertly transferred to your shoulders by Sgt. Baker's cutscenes and 
 voice-overs. Hell's Highway motivates you strategically and emotionally to be a smart leader, and 
 it's surprisingly engaging to focus on something other than yourself in a first-person shooter. 

  Battles become even more complex as you take more squads under your command and incorporate machine 
 gun and bazooka units. The former is excellent at suppressing enemies, while the latter can destroy 
 sandbag barriers and elevated enemy positions in houses and towers (particularly awesome) . As you 
 get the hang of squad command, you'll begin wielding your men as extensions of yourself and moving 
 through battlefields as an elite, coordinated unit. Taking apart and dispatching a field full of 
 entrenched German units is immensely satisfying, and this feeling of power is what makes Brothers 
 in Arms so rewarding.  

  Despite the focus on squad combat, Hell's Highway demands a strong individual performance from 
 you. Oftentimes you'll be the lone flanking unit, and you'll have to shoot accurately and make 
 smart use of cover to survive. There are also sections where you go it alone, and you'll have to 
 be nimble to both suppress and flank the Nazis yourself. Fortunately, you are a crack shot and 
 can hit half-exposed German helmets from a substantial distance if you can find enough time to 
 pop your head out and aim down your sights. When you score a particularly impressive shot or throw 
 a well-aimed grenade, the action camera will kick in to highlight your success. The camera will 
 zoom in on the Germans and the action will slow down dramatically, treating you to a gory display 
 of flying limbs, severed torsos, or burst skulls. It's a bit overblown, but you'll probably be 
 too busy roaring triumphantly to care.  

           The action camera is definitely excessive, whether you revel in it or disable it is up 
 to you.      

  Realism is abundant throughout the game, though, thanks to the excellent audio and visual design. 
 Each gun has a variety of unique sounds, and nearby explosions cause your ears to ring, drowning 
 out all other battlefield noise. Bullets smack into cover you've hidden behind and whistle by your 
 head disconcertingly, while tables and fences splinter and break in ways that both sound and look 
 realistic. Your comrades are also quite detailed, though occasionally their facial textures will 
 load a bit late, leaving you with a blurry, expressionless facsimile that can vitiate any emotional 
 involvement you may feel. As you venture through the Dutch countryside and into more-populated 
 zones, the landscape will change, but the superb level of detail will be constant throughout, only 
 periodically marred by a lackluster texture or two. The different landscapes do have a certain 
 sameness to them, as each tries to allow for squad-based tactics, but on the whole these battlefields 
 provide fantastic arenas for combat.  

  There are a number of multiplayer maps as well, and each supports up to 20 combatants. Two teams 
 face off in successive standard capture-the-territory contests, respawning only at the beginning 
 of each round. The twist is that each squad member has a certain role, from squad leader to weapons 
 specialist to tank operator. Squad leaders can call in aerial recon, while weapon specialists travel 
 with protective squads and deal their own unique brand of destruction. Well populated matches are 
 lively and intense, as fully-manned teams work together to stay alive, back each other up, and 
 thwart their opponents. Add in a vocal squad leader, and there is ample potential for exciting 
 battles. However, there are still plenty of lone wolves roaming about, and whether players will 
 fully embrace the squad mentality remains to be seen.  

  What is certain now is that Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is another rousing entry in a great 
 series. The beautiful landscapes complement the gritty combat, and thoughtful cinematic techniques 
 breathe life into the engaging characters. Despite the somewhat spotty story and sundry oddities, 
 Hell's Highway is a game you should consider playing twice. The unlockable "authentic" difficulty 
 mode removes all the heads-up display elements and really allows the visual design to shine. The 
 story resonates more powerfully because you know the characters well, and the renewed challenge 
 ratchets up the intensity. With so many exciting elements, Hell's Highway provides ample motivation 
 to don the Allied uniform once more.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (111 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zitzy2000
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 11:23 am PT
Review:  OK. I don't understand why people are giving this game a 1.0 score. I loved this game, from the 
 very first gun fight, till the credits rolled at the end.
  
  When I first started playing, I had never played any other Brothers In Arms before, and so I had 
 no idea what to expect. I liked the look of the graphics, and the movie graphics and game play 
 graphics I was expecting to look different, they didn't. I was completely in awe playing this game.
 
  
  The graphics I thought were outstanding, the sound effect mind blowing, and the game just wowed 
 me.
  
  One thing I got a bit fed up with was in the beginning the long movie sequence, and I wasn't really 
 paying much attention to it, I was just anxious to see what it played like, but I wish I had paid 
 more attention to it, now because the storyline in the game was excellent.
  
  I was totally consumed by it all. I sat here in front of my 27" HDTV monitor, and I was ducking 
 and poking my head down, dodging my head left and right as bullets would hit the shed or wood or 
 wall or whatever was behind me. It was so good.
  
  I am going to buy the other Brothers In Arms games just because this one was excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makhdoom82
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2009 2:38 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game from start to finish and can say that it's definitely something. Being 
 a fan of world war 2 shooter i like such games. This one is a different because rest of them use 
 old style shoot and kill while this uses tactical gameplay and needs strategy and planning to win. 
 Graphics are amazing and unreal engine 3 has been put to good use. Each map gives you a squad or 
 2 or sometimes even three to combat the enemy. You must order them around to use best use of their 
 weapons and environment to take the enemy down. All world war 2 weapons are in it. Map layout is 
 awesome and leads to some serious kraut encounter. Some missions involve tank use as well. Game 
 was satisfyingly long and i can say that you won't be disappointed. Worth the money. Story revolves 
 around allied showdown in Holland where they kick Nazi Germany out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siddarthshetty
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 7:40 am PT
Review:  As i said this is the best game i have played since it is just the second game which i gave 10/10. 
 The game has great graphics and storyline.. this is the first person shooter game but u will also 
 use strategy to control your squads 
  The game contains almost all types of mission like a couple of tanker mission, sniper mission etc 
 
  The controls in the game is petty easy since u use mouse to control your squad also tab to change 
 the squad...
  The weapons in the game is not so good like call of Duty: modern warfare since the of the game is 
 about World War.....
  Its very sad in the game that all of your friends will die finally you really get mad and throw 
 the gun also you feel how difficult our army face in the wars...
  The story will not end in the game so i really looking forward to the next one to release...... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archpimp
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2009 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I have been a huge fan of the Brothers in Arms series ever since playing Road to Hill 30 which 
 instantly grabbed me and wouldn't let me stop playing. The 3rd installment was not a disappointment 
 and was beautifully done. I found the story very engaging and an outstanding way to show the stress 
 of a soldier in combat. The upgraded weather graphics over previous games really help sell the 
 idea of being on "Hell's Highway" I also found Gearbox's tendency for holding to historical accuracy 
 was very good but I wish they had retained the extras as in the two previous versions. The recon 
 points just didn't have the pull.
  
  I did find that a couple things that pulled me away from being fully immersed in game. First off 
 the ease of which I ran through this game was ridiculous. I could run up to barricades shoot the 
 Germans with little reaction and running in front of nonsuppressed Germans should have killed me 
 but only a shot or two was headed my way. I even found the game relatively easy on Authentic which 
 drastically reduces your ability to hug the wall and aim. Finally I had a glitch on the "Hell's 
 Highway" mission where one of my squads stopped shooting and would only run and hide. This was 
 very frustrating as I was working my way up the road in Authentic mode on the second time through. 
 The end of the mission was also glitched both times through with the train station intro not loading 
 for some reason. The only way to get into the station was restart the game. 
  
  I would recommend this game to everyone to at least give it a try but DO NOT pay full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kro_429
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:46 pm PT
Review:  BiA created a unique outlook at squad based gaming from its very start. Whereas in more simplistic 
 shooters like CoD where you simply play with bots, in BiA you actually control squads and tanks 
 in constant flanking maneuvers to outwit the enemy. Unfortunately, there isn't a whole lot of replayability 
 and the singleplayer is just about all you'll get out of it.
  
  The graphics are fantastic, especially in raining levels. There's nothing like seeing each individual 
 raindrop bounce off a helmet or the ground as explosions go off all around. The soundtrack is pretty 
 good, the story is extremely gripping, and the game is immersive for the most part.
  
  The cover system used in the new BiA is slightly better than the previous two games and while it 
 adds a good sense of realism, a lot of your time in the game is simply spent peeking up to get 
 quick headshots with your kar98. The damage system is very innovative and really makes it feel 
 real, instead of the typical health regeneration crap present on most games today, BiA instead 
 uses a 'danger meter' to show how much danger you're in. The longer you're exposed, the closer 
 you get to dying until you eventually get shot if you don't take cover. Commanding the squads is 
 fairly easy and except for a few control issues with the tanks, it tends to work well in most cases. 
 The weapons feel much more useful than in the other two games and shots actually register if you 
 hit.
  
  Hell's Highway is a fantastic and unique WW2 experience, but while you may spend 8-12 hours on 
 the campaign, that's about all you'll get out of it. After playing through it twice I got bored 
 and haven't played it since. It's a good game, but I wouldn't pay more than $25 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hedgy1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Let me preface by saying that I played both of Hell's Highway's predecessors and loved them. They 
 were both challenging and intense. This one is a different experience. It attempts to be a war 
 drama a-la Band of Brothers. It does an admirable job for being a video game. 
  
  
  So, where to start? How about with how the game plays. That is the most important part, is it not? 
 I really liked how the game played. It was super easy after playing the first two (what with the 
 regenerating health and the cover mechanic) . But the guns really felt right, and I was able to 
 pick favorites, and eventually do my best in causing Nazi death. My preferred weapon through the 
 game was the Garand, as it was really accurate and semi-auto. The action sequences were quite intense, 
 and the AI was usually pretty good. One interesting thing in the game was how the regenerating 
 health was done. Instead of you getting shot, you wouldn't ever get hit until you had enough bullets 
 whiz by you. It seemed totally unrealistic, but hey! I didn't care. I didn't really care for the 
 killcam thing, either. So I was able to turn it off (thankfully, the designers thought it was a 
 good idea to include that as an option) . 
  
  The controls weren't half bad, either. I didn't use the default keyboard-mouse controls here, and 
 I instead used the controls from the first two games. I think those are far superior. Although 
 I really would have liked to see a jump option, I was able to get used to it. Having the spacebar 
 for sprinting and performing context-sensitive actions was an interesting decision for Gearbox 
 designers, I thought. But there is something about those darned context-sensitive actions that 
 game designers love. But overall, the controls were really good.
  
  Next, Imma go with the story part of the game. It is a WWII game (!) , but Gearbox really tried to 
 get the grittiness of a war drama into this game. They wanted to focus on character development 
 more than ever. And it was a pretty good choice, seeing as the endgame sets up for a sequel. The 
 character acting is pretty good, and I'm pretty sure the guy who voices Baker is also the guy who 
 did Goku in Dragonball Z. The story is just WWII, but it focuses on Baker, a squad leader in the 
 101st airborne. All of the missions have cutscenes which are unskippable the first time you watch 
 them, but after that, you can skip 'em as much as you want. Which is good. The game tries its hardest 
 to be deep, but it can never quite get it done. It's okay, though, the game was fun. 
  
  And now, ugh. The technical aspects. First, graphics. They were good. Powered by the unreal 3 engine, 
 everything looks great on PC ( I have a pretty good system that well surpassed the reqs) . The faces 
 on people in the game especially look fantastic. Although I really would have liked to see more 
 environmental detail, I was able to live. And I also thought that the first-person view of yourself 
 just didn't look right when holding some guns. In all the Brothers in Arms games, your hand just 
 doesn't seem to be placed correctly on the gun. Maybe it's just me. But it was annoying for the 
 first four levels. Then I got over it. I also didn't suffer from the texture pop-in those console 
 people got. I guess I'm lucky. Or smart. Or both (?) . The sound in this game was fantastic. It was 
 boomy and scary and loud and punchy. I liked it with my nice X-Fi and Surround sound. 
  
  Overall, I think that this is a good game. It's actually a great game. I played it for hours and 
 hours and hours. And although it won't replace Hitman: Blood Money for games I play over and over 
 again, I like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 11:52 pm PT
Review:  I don't really understand the hate for BiA Hell's Highway. From the second I started playing this 
 game, I was very impressed. The cinematic experience; the fleshed out characters; and of course 
 the very appropriate music and general sound. Essentially, there was a lot to this game that I 
 liked. Though it was a WWII FPS (which generally leads to stereotypical preconceptions) , I found 
 myself enjoying this game from start to finish.
  
  The length of the game was perfect: not too short, but not too long. Graphics were kind of hit 
 or miss. On the one hand, the cinematics were great and well-conveyed. On the other hand, sometimes 
 the frame-rate would waver and/or pop-ins would occur. As a whole, I thought the game was still 
 very nice looking. Not as clean as Call of Duty4, but still quite alright.
  
  In fact a lot of this game was done very well, including the cinematic experience, a likable squad 
 with different characters of varying personalities, a pretty good story, and of course the famed, 
 squad-combat system. Being new to the franchise, I found myself readily enjoying this new add-in. 
 Controlling the squads were a real delight, and I didn't have any AI problems that were complained 
 about in IGN's review. In short, if you know what you are doing, your squad rarely run into problems 
 IMO.
  
  That said, the game is not perfect. For example, though the graphics are grand, it lacks CoD4's 
 finesse. It also doesn't have CoD4's presentation. The story was emotional and great, but it lacked 
 polish. There were some threads that ran thin, and some choices/direction that I didn't like so 
 much. This is not to say the story is bad, however. In fact, it was really quite good. It's just 
 as a whole, this game is very fun, but not 'epic'. Whereas CoD4 left a feeling of awe, BiA H-Highway 
 made me feel like it was just simply a good game. Well actually, a great game.
  
  In conclusion, I don't really understand the hate for this game from some reviewers. The squad 
 AI is awesome, the sound is amazing, the levels/environments are varied, and the characters are 
 likable. Throw in a pretty good story with a cinematic feel, and you have this game. Not mind-blowing, 
 but great in so many ways. IMO, it stayed fresh from start to finish, despite having to deal with 
 itself as being a game in the WW2 FPS genre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Twilight-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 8:03 am PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is the third title to be released in the entire Brothers in Arms 
 series. It is also the first title to be released on the current generation of systems (PlayStation 
 3, X360) . The game continues right where it left off, following, once again, Matthew Baker. For 
 those who haven't played the previous titles, Brothers in Arms follows one story arc through the 
 eyes of more than one soldier. Earned in Blood followed Joe "Red" Hartsock. If you haven't played 
 the first two, then I can't recommend you start on the third, so stop reading, and go rent them. 
 I promise the review will still be here when you are finished. 
  
  Okay, now that that's been taken care of, back to the normal order of business. Brothers in Arms: 
 Hell's Highway sticks to what the series has been known to do best. Superb realism, great A. I, 
 and exhilarating first-person action. The game mechanics have been even more refined making maneuvering 
 and combat a smoother experience than before. As expected, the visuals have improved tenfold since 
 Earned in Blood. The voice-acting talent hasn't changed, which is for the best, and the sound effects 
 still get the heart thumping. 
  
  Suffice it to say, not much has changed in Brothers in Arms. What has been added to the game, however, 
 do a great job to immerse the player in Matthew Baker's environment. Destructible cover and a new 
 visual level of threat let you know when to get down and out of there quick (as if your squad yelling 
 at you wasn't enough) . There's been an addition of squads to the game as well. Out flanking the 
 enemy has become an even more intense challenge with machine gun and bazooka squads out on the 
 battlefield. Machine guns, when not reloading, provide you and your bazooka squad excellent suppressive 
 fire. Use your bazooka (appropriately named Stella) to destroy tanks, destroy cover, or exposed 
 Germans. The kills are even more satisfying when the new "action camera" is enabled. Toss a grenade, 
 score a beautifully aimed headshot, or destroy an MG nest with your bazooka and the game will slow 
 down, zoom in, and let you watch your enemies die in splendor. This game has really upped the intensity 
 to a level no World War II game has done before.
  
  None of the action seems disrupted at all when it comes time to sit back and watch the game. The 
 cut scenes stop the game play for a little while, giving you a well deserved breather, to progress 
 the story. Hell's Highway delves deeper into why these men are brothers in arms and not just soldiers 
 on the battlefield. Throughout, Baker is tormented by memories of fallen comrades; so much to a 
 point his friends are questioning what could possibly be going through his mind. It's safe to assume 
 Baker isn't the only tortured soul; many of the soldiers seem emotionally scarred by their personal 
 losses and longing to be home. Hell's Highway takes place during operation Market Garden, a failed 
 effort to end the war by Christmas. Operation Market Garden does seem to be only the foundation 
 and backdrop of the game. As stated, the series follows one story arc; Hell's Highway leans heavily 
 on the tragedy and triumphs of Road to Hill 30 and Earned in Blood. The game does make an effort 
 to explain what's already happened when players start a new game, but falls flat in establishing 
 to new players what's been going on or what has been set up to happen; a minor setback in the entire 
 game. 
  
  Don't be mistaken, Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is the big enchilada of the series. Assuming 
 one has played the previous titles, you will be blown away by the evolution in technology, characters, 
 and game play. I strongly suggest anyone to play this game. It stands out and above all World War 
 II shooters, if not most shooters period. History buffs, action junkies, FPS veterans; all would 
 be doing themselves a huge favor in picking up Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: funky_grof
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 31, 2009 10:19 am PT
Review:  i will just make things short, this is the first score i am giving here, and thisi is becaouse gamespot 
 give this game score of 8.5????????
  i dont beleive it when i began to play. it is so abysmal that i cannot beleive that someone can 
 score it with 8.5, definetily overrated.
  to be honnest game has potential but that potential is sooooo unused that this is also my first 
 game that i could not play through to end... i just remove it after 5-6 levels, i really dont know 
 why i played it that much.
  
  the atmosphere sometimes when palying in enterior feels good but, and you think,"whoa", maybe i can 
 enjoy this game, but when the action starts, epecialy at outdoors and when u start shooting germans 
 like clay ducks u understand that, that minor "whoa" sight was just temporary sight of hope. after 
 5-6 level you understand that you really can`t find anyyhing in this game to hope for. like i said, i 
 just remove it after couple of hourse of plaing, first game that i actually coudn`t play to the 
 end.
  just ****** awfully hideously terrible!!!
  
  and what`s whit that pattetic acting and music, seriously guyes, a didn`t play this to look that 
 "dramatic" cutscenes, and put a tear on it. if i feel like crying i will watch some drama or romance, i 
 get the game for fun, not crying!!!
  
  realy, the worst game ever, sorry gearbox, but if you wont to make games for ladies, dont ever again 
 try to make WWII game again!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Endach
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 26, 2009 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I'm beginning to feel like I am the only person around that has played this game. Does anyone else 
 see what a giant hunk of flaming **** this thing is? The graphics are ok, but the game play is 
 horrid. Firstly, I don't feel like my character is soldier, but instead a little old lady bumbling 
 about in hover 'round with a bad battery. Perhaps there should be an option to drop any excess 
 gear and make your character a bit more nimble before a firefight? Course that might add even more 
 time to the continual pestering of the cut scenes that seem to pop up every five minutes and turn 
 the game play into something akin to a stammering retard reciting War and Peace.
  
  IT'S WW2!!! EVERY STORY YOU CAN POSSIBLY THINK OF HAS ALREADY BEEN TOLD! I DO NOT CARE! I ONLY 
 WANT TO BLOW SH*T UP! LESS STORY! MORE ATTENTION TO GAMEPLAY!
  
  But I /can't/ forget the sham that this game presents as combat.. All of the combat in this game 
 has been stolen from good oldie called Whac-A-Mole.. The only difference between this game's so 
 called combat and whac-a-mole is that the moles here are wearing tiny gray uniforms and tin helmets 
 that ding when you pop them in the head and start ANOTHER WORTHLESS CUT SCENE JUST TO SHOW YOU 
 THAT YOU ARE INDEED NOT AS INCOMPTIENT AS YOU ORGINALLY THOUGHT!
  
  Then.. There are your teammates whom you are led to believe you are in control of. Sure there are 
 times when they move correctly to cover and don't wrap around an object in the wrong direction 
 thus exposing themselves to enemy fire which they seem quite content to remain standing in front 
 of until they die.. But what really bugs me about them is how worthless they seem to be. I will 
 confess that they can put down cover fire, but other than the five enemies they have put down, 
 I am left to do the bulk of the dirty work and finish off the moles one by one as they pop up from 
 their hidey holes. *yawn* Do I get any tickets that I can cash in for cheap prizes if I get them 
 all? For $50 bucks I should.
  
  And finally.. The illusion of tactics. If you think there are tactics in then game then your mind 
 is extraordinary simple and you should be given a cookie along with a pat on the back. So, in the 
 midst of this horribly restricted game, you are given the option the flank.. Which translates to, 
 instead of taking the yellow brick road we like to call option A, you can run along the 2nd (THE 
 ONLY OTHER OPTION!) we like to call option B. Can you say 'boring, funneled, worthless, game play'? 
 I can.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skamanoi
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2009 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Well after playing COD4 & WAW i totaly forgot about this series & i could kick myself for it. Classic 
 series of games & i looked past this gem.
  Fortunatly i got this yesterday been playing allnight still playing now. lets do this one step at 
 a time.... Gfx awsome really feels like ur their every detail is just right. The awsome headshot 
 or bazooka hit is fun too watch .. Controlling other teams in single player is easy but u get a 
 good fight from the ai which is missing from most games ,plenty going on onscreen at the same time 
 it really is a ww2 hardcore reallity game. As u progress u will start too use ur men to win the 
 fight but unlike most games like this u will play a big part in winning it, ur men will supress 
 fire use bazookas throw grenades flank the enemy but u know uve helped.. U enter buildings at start 
 on ur own which gives u the (i wanna kill anything) feeling.. Which is great & fun but it is more 
 fun using ur team outside & inside l8r, Its not one of those games where u throw in ur team sit 
 back watch & hope for the best, u will kill on ur own u will feel like ur leading the team..
  Multiplayer... Is cool can be frantic i dont know my way round the maps yet but players online seem 
 to be ok lads u either go usa or germany & its like a bull in a china shop anything can happen 
 its cool.
  What i, d like to see happen in BIA..... exp packs maybe progressing threw the yrs upto vietnam, 
 falklands war to the gulf, This game has a good following of player`s & rightly so its a great game.
 
  My Rig... AMD Athlon 4800 d/c 2.5g
  4g ram ddr2 800
  Vista premium
  Zotac 9800gt 512mb
  Asrock N61P-S M/B 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myxdgh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 3:43 pm PT
Review:  2 b honest: i'm a fan bia-series.
  
  i got every game exactly on his release date.
  i was curious: could the 3rd part stand up with his predecessor?
  
  got it on plan, installed 
 on hd - lets go!
  
  graphics cool, controls simplified (can b balanced with difficulty-setting) ,
  great intro, which 
 let's u unclear about the further story. In familiar manner u guide u men through Operation MARKET 
 GARDEN.
  Not that Gearbox has brought his BIA-series to a 'allplayeracceptablelevel', they given the game 
 a incredibile deep.
  U play Baker again (like in the first part) , who is plagued by his memories, but nevertheless keeping 
 it 'all together' 4 his men.
  U also follow his friendship with Sgt. 'Hartsock', whitch is very subtile packed in the game.
 
  Keep up like this, we need games like this!
  This is cinema 4 the PC!
  
  Nothing more 2 say! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Will_518
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 17, 2009 8:35 am PT
Review:  I'd like to start be applauding Brothers In Arms: Hells Highway for being the ONLY shooter I've 
 played this winter where you play as a human being instead of a robot. Games like Crysis, (+WH) , 
 Dead Space, Half-Life 2, COD: WAW... etc ... etc... all of them have a robot as the protagonist, 
 no emotions, no storyline, no motivation, styreotypical and cliched space marine. Well, in the 
 case of COD: WAW, just marine.
  
  STORYLINE:
  
  Of course, having a storyline is one thing, having a good engaging storyline is something else 
 all together. In fact the story of BIA is so bad, I can't even recall much of the details. But 
 I'm pretty sure it's all along the lines of: Americans are the good guys, heroes saving Europe 
 from some massive evil of the Nazis. It's never explained why the Nazis were evil, or why the Americans 
 were good, or what the war was all about, or what Operation Market Garden was. There's also the 
 strangely inserted single tank from british 30th corps, which you controll in some badly designed 
 missions, but it's such a gimmicky and unnecessary insertion, it's plain stupid.
  
  It's also really stupid to have members of your platoon who's crawling on the ground dead just 
 a moment ago magically brought back to life whenever you hit a cutscene.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  ... is really INNOVATIVE. I mean, I've played lots of shooters before, and lots of strategy 
 games before, but this is the first game I've ever played where you physically control the men 
 on the ground. That is the sort of innovation I welcome in video games. It adds depth and feels 
 more realistic.
  
  However, the AI is soooooo incredibly stupid, it's difficult to even explain it to someone who 
 hasn't experienced it first hand. You command 2 or 3 squads in each mission, out of the 4 squads:
 
  
  Machine Gun squad
  Assault squad
  Base of fire squad (Assult squad on steriods)
  Boozoka squad
  
  The MG squad sets up where ever you point your finger, which can be really 
 annoying when you accidentally make a wrong click. The Assault and BOF squads frequently gets on 
 the wrong side of cover and happily rubs their dicks against a wall while being shot at; when they 
 finally do get to where you want them, they don't fire effectively untill you give them specific 
 targets. You can't tell them to charge a position untill they are a few inches away, by which time 
 they'll al be dead on the ground.
  
  Boozoka squad... hmm.. should be good against tanks right? WRONG. they are the rich kids who decided 
 to join the paratroopers for a free holiday in Europe, because no matter what I do, I just can 
 not get them to fire at the tanks. They fire when they are ready and want to, which is almost never.
 
  
  BTW, why can't I choose what weapons I want to carry into the battle? And why can't I issue orders 
 and queue orders in the tactical screen? That would make it possible for me to command not 3, but 
 6 squads, and make the game far more tactical, and possibly, just possibly, improve the AI.
  
  PRESENTATION:
  
  Good, dramatic, just what I'd expect from a WWII game. The graphics is 
 a bit dated though.
  
  CONCLUSIONS:
  
  They have a good concept here, if they can code a decent AI, write a decent storyline that makes 
 sense, and make maps bigger and the tactical map more useful; then they could potentially make 
 a good game out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markbowen_99
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 11:22 am PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is a WWII action game that puts the player in command of one, 
 two, or three fireteams, or occasionally a tank, to fight through heavy German resistance, as part 
 of Operation Market-Garden.
  
  There are many intense firefights, and the added challenge of giving orders to your fireteams that 
 will help you to finish the mission, and not get them wounded. As a WWII shooter, the gameplay 
 is at least as good as other well-known franchises in the same genre (Call of Duty, Medal of Honor) .
 
  
  As far as conveying a sense of set and setting -- that is, that the player is in the Netherlands 
 to seize an important stretch of highway as part of a larger operation to cross the Rhine, apart 
 from a few windmills and some NPCs in cutscenes with very questionable accents, the game designers 
 haven't made much effort. The missions are largely generic WWII "clear the square" or "eliminate 
 the Panzer" affairs. Only near the end of the game does the main character sum up the whole operation. 
 
  
  Then, there is the dramatic "plot" of the game, which has to do with a pistol that some of your 
 fellow squad members believe is cursed, since whoever touches it ends up dead. Apparently, the 
 game writers are wannabe screenwriters, who couldn't get hired elsewhere, so they've decided to 
 force their cliched plot and wretched dialogue on the gameplayers, in the form of numerous interminable 
 cutscenes, from which there is no escape.
  
  As soon as the game really gets going, and you get through a difficult firefight and you are pumped 
 and ready for more, rather than keeping the pace going, the designers subject the player to five 
 minutes or even more of cutscenes that aspire to be "Band of Brothers," but are most definitely 
 not up to par. 
  
  Worse, so certain are the designers that the player must see these scenes to really "feel" the 
 game, there is no way to skip the scenes. Press whatever button you want, you cannot avoid them, 
 and there are many of them. Too many. Even when you finish the single player game, and you think 
 to yourself "Thank God I don't have to sit through any more cutscenes, there are TEN MORE MINUTES 
 to wrap up the pistol story and prepare the player for the next game in the series, which will 
 obviously be the Battle of the Bulge.
  
  I don't mind if game designers feel they have a story to tell, but some restraint should be exercised, 
 and some consideration should be given to the player who is sitting down to play a game and not 
 to watch a movie. I'll pass on the next game in the series, unless the designers give players the 
 option to skip the scenes, or I can find a hack to do it my way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardhuddy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 8:25 am PT
Review:  Hell's Highway is the third part of the on going "Band of Brothers" style story about a US squadron 
 battling through various World War II missions. This time, the group embarks on the ambitious and 
 arduous task to reach Germany through occupied Holland Known as Operation Market Garden. However, 
 the doomed operation meant that many soldiers inflicted bloodbath battles with the unexpected Panzer 
 elite division, making progress near impossible. The route became infamously known as Hell's Highway. 
 This game like its predecessors is focused on squad based tactics. You play the part of Sergeant 
 Baker, responsible for deploying your squad into dangerous enemy territory to complete your objectives. 
 As the story unfolds, the true horrors of war become apparent. Friends come and go, and the stress 
 of war starts to take its toll. It's a sunny afternoon and I am perched in a windmill surveying 
 the hostilities around me. A young girl is seen being dragged backwards by her hair into a barn 
 by a general below. Unable to help I advance having collected information into an attacking formation. 
 My squad and I head to the front of the barn behind a wall. I order my infantry to take position 
 on the right flank whilst I take the other group to the left. The enemy is quickly eliminated standing 
 no chance. The eerie sound of a creaking rope echoes in the barn as we move in. Looking up, the 
 young girl hangs by the noose around her neck. I think this single moment sums up what the game 
 is really all about. The ability to tactically plan, maneuver your squad and outwit your opponents 
 is pure genius. Yet the moment also captures the relentless disrespect for human life and horror 
 that war brings. The game is not a typical first person shooter, it's an experience. An interactive 
 movie maybe? And is no more evident than when the game opens "Previously in Bothers in Arms". Not 
 playing any of the previous games, I was wondering if the game would make any sense. However, this 
 wasn't the case. The story was easy to pickup and the head scratching moments are explained, albeit 
 much later in the game. The story was a little weak in places but you soon begin to understand 
 the relationships of the characters both past and present.
  
  The game was an instant hit for me. The ability to order your squads to lay on suppressing fire 
 while you flank the unsuspecting enemy is just a wonderful part of how this game is played. Squads 
 can be made up with teams such as mortar, bazooka and MG squads play an important part of your 
 progress yet strangely, some parts of the game are solo. It's this style of gaming that has won 
 my over like no other FPS and very different to any I've played before. My only regret now is not 
 playing the first two. I feel a sicky coming on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ovrman
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Definitely the best WW2 shooter available at this time. I was quite pleased with the enhancements 
 the BIA: HH has made over its predecessors.
  
  The story is engaging and interesting. The cut scenes are excellent and make the story "flow" like 
 few on the market have. The action is as good as ever, and the slo-mo head shots and explosions 
 are a nice touch. The level design is linear, but the attention to detail is outstanding. It really 
 feels like Holland in 1944.
  
  Graphics were excellent on my system (Athlon X2 6400+, GeForce 8800 GTS) with everything turned 
 on high and playing at 1600 x 1200. Sound is excellent as well, and the music is nothing short 
 of inspiring.
  
  I am very impressed with this game. It is probably the first 'new' game I've played since HL2 that 
 really left me wanting more. I even felt compelled to write a review of it. :)
  
  This is a must-buy for any fan of the WW2 genre, and even those of 'casual gaming' orientation. 
 Even if you are sick of WW2 games, this is worth your time, as it is so elegantly crafted. 
  
  However, it should be noted that its not a pure action game like the CoD or MoH series. Its 
 more story-driven and atmospheric. IMO, better suited for the mature gamers out there who desire 
 substance over style.
  
  I can't wait for the next version! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shekswin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  Well BIAHH.. my 1st game of the series in BRILLIANTLY suited 4 all classic FPS gamers like me.. The 
 gameplay is truly innovative.. giving us squads to command is a wonderful idea and 1st of its kind 
 4 me... The guns the stratergic attacks and especially the closeup kill of my many many head shots 
 is absolutely brillant and brings back sweet memories of Max payne!! well folks play it .. u ll 
 lik it.. cuz as easy as it was i loved it !!!!!!!!!... i hav a few complaints too... the cut scenes 
 though intriguing n help with the story are way too long ...!!!.. all said and done a GOOD game 
 and an 8.5 4m me... it loses points due to the long cutscenes and the really complex story !!! but 
 to all those noobs out ther FLANKIN the enemy is really important but dont flank all the time keep 
 it mixed and interesting!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Many say World War 2 based shooting games are outdated and game developers should really move away 
 from making such games. I disagree. Nobody had to promote punk rock to kill good progressive rock 
 music. Just like music-games should be left to infinite subjects. Anything can be a context for 
 a game. Whether it's a good game or a bad game-that should be the argument. Accordingly, BIAHH 
 has proven that a WW2 based game is still as good as a futuristic or fantasy shooting game. 
  Wait, that's not all-this game stands out among most other shooting games because it will attach 
 you to Baker, the game's lead character-and make you feel good or bad about the things that are 
 happening to other characters. A very few games attach you to characters like these. And it all 
 feels like a personal experience. Two side stories-saving a kid by playing the role of a sniper 
 and trying to save a woman from the Nazis-paints extra colour to this experience. 
  The game is based on real experience of Sgt Baker. The developer had to strike a balance between 
 what happened to Sgt Baker and how you would play his role in an entertaining manner in your computer. 
 I think they did the job wonderfully. There is no health pack, but you die if you are exposed to 
 several bullet hits. If you are injured, take a bit of rest and you are recovered. Its like Call 
 of Duty Modern Warfare. 
  All the wooden shields in the game is breakable; so when you are playing, try to hide behind concrete 
 or steel shields. And among the guns, fighting with the Heavy Machine Gun in this game is real 
 fun -- though it is short lived.
  Unlike the past BIA games, the length of this game is satisfactory. You can expect spectacular 
 visuals all along and a lot of drama and cutscenes througout. 
  You must try out this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicklech16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  In the long-lasting monotony in the genre of World War II-shooters, the Brothers In Arms-series 
 always offered a pleasant alternative. The mixture of tactical approach and straight shooter-action 
 is also the most interesting part of the new installment in the series.
  
  "Brothers In Arms: Hell's Highway" always manages to allow the player this typical style of gameplay. 
 The leveldesign is great because it never feels as if it is geared to the Fire-Flank-Finish-tactic 
 you absolutely need to progress through the levels. To position the teams under your control wisely 
 is great fun, too, because of a clever AI. Great graphics and an awesome soundscape during the 
 battles make up an intense battlefield-atmosphere. Moreover the game offers a goof variety of gameplay, 
 with some solo- and even tank-missions.
  
  Another big plus factor of "Hell's Highway" in comparison to other WWII-shooters is of course its 
 story and the characters. Soon you'll start to care about your teammates because the game creates 
 very lively and likeable soldiers who are guided through a dramatic storyline. Unfortunately the 
 narrative relies a lot on what happened in the previous games. If you don't know them, you won't 
 have a chance to understand all of the relationships between your comrades.
  
  All in all the new "Brothers In Arms" is a great game which balances its gameplay-styles very well 
 so it is a lot of fun to strategize and shoot your way through the "Hell's Highway". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ionutelu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  The story is great, the graphics are great, game play is great, what can i say bad about this game? 
 .. hmm.. really no complains from me! You should play this one even you don't like wwii games.
 
  I surely wait for the next one :D .. cheers to the people who worked on this piece of gold, and 
 keep it coming! Great shooter!!! .. i say it again: GREAT
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  P. S: I am sure that those guys in Hollywood will make a movie taking B. I. A. story.. or just they 
 should :) ) .. anyway.. there is no originality in new movies.. so, why not?
  
  
  Take care! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samerym
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  This game is simply beautiful to look at. I think gamers are being spoiled nowadays with great 
 graphics and better gameplay, not to mention terrific voice-acting. 
  
  The best aspect of this game is the teamwork, which allows you to command cover fire from your 
 cronies so you can flank, although it makes gameplay a bit easy. There are two faults in this game: 
 1. The many cutscenes forced upon you, and you have to watch, but having said that, you should 
 watch them, because every now and then you see something amazing. I really enjoyed watching the 
 faces of the characters, with facial hair and even pours done masterfully; it's quite amazing that 
 we gamers still to manage to complain most of the time.
  
  The second fault is length, or lack of it. The game is really short, and if you take away the cutscenes, 
 it becomes even shorter.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor, Call of Duty, etc.
  None of those title have ever achieved the realness in the tactical aspect of war as much as BIA 
 HH has. From the moment you grab your mouse and keyboard to play this game you know that you have 
 to keep your head low and tread lightly. It took a while to fully get accustomed to the new key 
 layout of this game (This is my first BIA title to play) but it still was fun. you had to plan 
 your every move. my favorite was when I shoot the enemy in order to suppress them, so that my squad 
 could make it to my desired location. What is funny is that I always just shot them without taking 
 aim. though the main aim of the game is suppressing and flanking, it doesn't get neither repetitive 
 nor boring, and the game owns that to intuitive level design and EXCELLENT AI! I wrote that in 
 capital because I really mean it. The enemy soldiers know what they are doing and that makes for 
 some tense moments when you have to outsmart them! They won't hesitate to shoot you when you are 
 out of cover, they will flee to a safer spot when you blow their destructible cover, they will 
 flee when you throw them a grenade (not like Cod World at War where they do nothing!) , etc. The 
 tanks are the worst enemies of all. Either you have to draw their attention to yourself so that 
 your bazooka squad can hit them from behind where they are most vulnerable, or get close enough 
 -without being squashed by the tank's wheels- and plant a C4 to destroy them.
  The game had a few forgivable bugs before the level "Hell's Highway". But the aforementioned level 
 contained a large number of bugs and made it a bit frustrating to play. Enemies wouldn't spawn 
 were they should so that the level can advance, you disappear and then reappear in another part 
 of the level without any apparent reason, etc.
  But that doesn't take from the overall fun you will have with this game. I strongly recommend this 
 game to any WWII and Warfare fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddai
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  I got this game as a present from my father for my 17th B-day
  
  As you starting to play you may notice that cutscenes are a strong part of the game not like the 
 previous games where you barely had an actual story. This time you are more Baker than a soldier. 
 There would be a perfect balance between the action parts and the story parts. Not like the previous 
 games, this time you will BE Sergent Matt Baker for real, you will get to know your squad better 
 and learn to know the characters better then the previous games.
  If you didn't play the previous games though you will have hard time to enter the story as you 
 will have a lot of elements from previous games back here too. Baker is now someone with deep personality 
 you will find out why he's getting crazier throughout the game and how is it affecting his relations 
 with the rest of the platoon.
  
  However the action part of the game got an improvement too; In addition to the well known fireteam 
 and assault team you will meet 2 new teams: First, the MG team: 2-3 soldiers and one of them with 
 M1919A4 MG. great for covering fire. The second: Bazooka team, my favorite, you can destroy groups 
 of enemies in one shot, however it takes them some time to shoot but still tey do their job well. 
 Another new option in the game which you'll use the "dig in" button. While dug in, you actually 
 take cover and you can shoot at the enemy from this cover. I found myself shooting while dug in 
 much more then shooting normally with the sight. While there are barely new weapons (save the sniper 
 rifle and the Panzerschreck of the German army and the M1928 of the allies) and some of the weapons 
 disappeared like the FG42 and the M1903 the game is still doing good job in these weapons. However, 
 i didn't like the fact that you always carry lots of ammo for 2 weapons and Colt 0.45 it simply 
 doesn't make sense to carry 20 magazines for M1A1...
  Single player chapters are a but longer than the previous games but the adding of the cutscenes 
 and just 9 levels makes the game somehow short a bit. The gameplay, however, is as same as in the 
 previous games, so fans would have easier time to get used to the game while new people would take 
 sometime but it's very easy and simple.
  A new feature in the game is a collecting of Kilroys and Recon points. In each game you have 3 
 kilroy hiding throughout the level which you must tag them. as well as 2 Recon points which would 
 give you data about the area (instead of just completing a level for info in the previous games) . 
 Unfortunately there's no satisfied reward on collecting these which is a shame...
  One of the coolest feature in the game are 3 missions' parts which you are a tank and you control 
 it, not like in the previous games where tanks were only controlled as a squad.
  The Graphic is amazing. There's a huge improvement from thr last game and it's no doubts one of 
 the best looking WW2 games yet.
  The sound got also improved from the last game The orchestral score swells at just the right moments 
 to add gravity to the situation, and the dialogue is delivered well.
  
  MP mode is suck, i mean it's very lousy and pretty much unnecessary for this great game.
  
 
  This game is a great improvement for the previous games and is a must for BIA fans as for the 
 new ones they may not like it that much since there's a great focus on the plot of the previous 
 games however they can find it as worth playing FPS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: World War 2 related games have been milked almost dry for the past several years and 
 few of the titles released have covered the action or the tales of the soldiers in the field like 
 Gearbox's Brothers in Arms series. In Brothers in arms: Hells Highway once again following the 
 footsteps and drawing from the experiences of the actual 502nd Parachute Infantry, 101st Airborne 
 Division. This time the game takes you away from fighting in the fields of France into some of 
 World War II's most colossal failures for the allies. The story revolves around Operation Market 
 Garden, and the whole plan is to capture a highway through Holland and punching through enemy lines 
 into the heart of Germany. So pretty much it's set against this backdrop of the war, telling the 
 tale of Staff Sergeant Matt Baker and his squad as they try to survive the hazards of Holland that 
 are constantly thrown their way. Much of the story is reflecting on past events or thoughs and 
 stresses of battle or the battle ahead which you really get to know and get emotionally connected 
 with the characters. If you've seen HBO's Band of Brothers, Hell's Highway feels like a lost episode 
 of the show, and has the sense of scale and cinematic grandness that you'd expect from Hollywood. 
 As far as the standard gameplay mechanics are concerned, Hell's Highway plays out exactly like 
 the previous titles in the game, so veterans of the series will have no problem getting in to the 
 game quickly. There is also a fun multiplayer part of the game which is great for playing against 
 a friend but online you can't really find that many people playing this game for some reason which 
 is sad because the multiplay is always fun.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are not pretty good and everything is very detailed and colorful but at times 
 when you are talking to your men there emotions don't show up right away. There is a new feature 
 called the "action-demo", this is a slow-mo type of thing when you shoot a guy in the head and 
 there is blood everywhere, when you hit something with a rocket or something along that line that 
 is grand.
  
  Sound: I have to say that the sound is really good in this game. Everything from the voice acting 
 to the gun fire is really good quality and sound the way it should sound. The sound track is quite 
 good too and sounds like a opening scene of Band Of Brothers. 
  
  Value: The only thing I did not like was that sometimes you team is stupid when responding to commands 
 manuvering them to safety like when you tell them to fall back and go behind a wall, they would 
 jump over it to get behind it instead of staying low and going around. Also I found it hard to 
 aim at times due to constant movment of character for some reason. All in all this is a great tactical 
 shooter with a good multiplay segment which is fun to play with friends. This game is really worth 
 buy, playing and keeping. I give this game 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki_rj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Operation Market Garden, the most disastrous Allied Operation in WWII, has once again emerged as 
 a setting for a FPS, or First person shooters. Many will shout: "Again?!"
  
  I will plead: "Again!"
  
  Some may say there are limited ways a story can be told, that WWII 
 shooters are digging their own graves, releasing a couple of games every year, but the Brothers 
 in Arms series has proved once again that the genre is still worth exploring.
  
  On all other shooter franchises, you're a lone gunman, in the middle of some of WWII's greatest 
 battles, with a mission and a rifle. Brothers in Arms, or BIA, gives you the command of an unit, 
 a group of men with their own expertise, their strengths and weaknessess, and it's your job, as 
 their leader, to balance the situation, and keep them alive.
  
  In the midst of all other shooters, it is that emphasis on group dynamics that makes BIA stand 
 out alone.
  
  Such dynamics are intrically placed within the game's plot and gameplay. With a click of the right 
 mouse button, you'll place a Machine Gun crew on a fixed position, to support your assault or flanking 
 maneuver. Another click, and a bazooka team can take out a sniper or an MG group at, say, a church 
 tower (one of the coolest things I've ever seen in a shooter) . Group maneuvers, though, get more 
 complicated as the game progresses. At times, you must place a bazooka team in a strategic position 
 safe enough to keep her intact (after all, unlike some shooters, your soldiers will die if hit 
 - only to be ressurected at the next checkpoint) while well-placed enough to hit a Panzer at its 
 rear, and at the same time, you, and your assault team, must deal with nearby enemies and make 
 sure the tanks stop long enough for them to be shot. And while your soldiers have enough AI to 
 duck and fire on their own, they will, at times take cover at the wrong side of a wall, for instance, 
 or stay in plain sight if not ordered to move to decent cover. While they have enough good aim 
 to take out quite a few of your enemies (especially the MG crew) , attack moves will still largely 
 depend on your own actions, and aim.
  
  At times, you'll become separated from the rest of the group, removing the squad play aspect of 
 BIA. But don't worry, lone controls are equally well distributed. WASD movements remain the rule, 
 and with a simple touch on 'Q' (default) you'll take cover behind turned tables, sandbags, under 
 windows, next to doorways... It's surprisingly easier to aim down at targets while on cover (when 
 the game becomes third person) and with a touch on 'space' you'll vault over your cover, to the 
 other side, ready for an advance.
  
  Graphically, Hell's Highway is simply stunning. From light reflex on rainy surfaces, to blood splatters 
 on worn walls, the game portraits the harsh reality of World War II in all its gore and glory. 
 A bazooka shot, or a grenade throw (never mind a satchel explosion) produces gruesome effects on 
 both enemies and allies. It's amazing the first time you hit a difficult headshot, only to see 
 the damage being done in slow motion. It's sad to see, if you forget to order your troops back, 
 a soldier being caught in satchel explosion. His arm is gone, as is the top half of his head.
 
  
  The sounds of war are as immersing as they get. Few are the times, even in the middle of peaceful 
 interludes, when the sound of gunfire cannot be heard. In the middle of combat, everything else 
 is completely deafened by the explosions and gunshots whistling past your head.
  
  The plot, though, is where the game lacks. While it's nice to actually have a character, with a 
 backstory, friends and enemies within your own unit, the character's background, along with the 
 reasons for frienships and enimnities, are all from previous BIA games. For those unfamiliar with 
 them (as I was when I first bought them) , they're incredibly confusing, and while you'll clarify 
 them as the story moves on, it takes a second play (and only a second play) to get you fully immersed 
 on the storyline. Hell's Highway provides a 'Previously on Brothers in Arms' segment, but they 
 do little to help the first time player on the franchise. On a comparisson, it's like watching 
 24 on TV for the first time on the third episode. While there is a 'previously' segment as it begins, 
 odds are you'll be completely lost plotwise.
  
  The confusing plot, in my book a major flaw, is not alone in the game's downsides. The realism 
 in the graphics and some elements of the plot are not used by the previously mentioned gameplay 
 features. Is it realy realistic to believe that every town and field in Holland was crowded with 
 cleverly placed ducking spots? That every table in a hospital or city building would be turned 
 to provide perfect cover against patrolling germans? Some other features would be much appreciated. 
 For instance: You are the only 'leader' on the field. Even in major battles across rivers or into 
 cities, you are the only one actually commanding a group. Every other soldier just pours forward, 
 aimlessly. Moreover, German soldiers will remain static, for the most part of a conflict. Their 
 movements are limited to jumping over their cover as they attempt to get closer to you (when they 
 try that) . Their AI is limited, in a way they only leave their position when they feel their cover 
 isn't proper anymore. While I'm aware they are defending on a fixed fire position, perfectly appropriate, 
 it would be better, for the sake of the challenge, for they to attempt a flanking maneuver, for 
 instance. Also, while crouching behind your cover (3rd person) , as you pop your head out to shoot, 
 there are times your head will completely cover your sight, and you have to move along the cover 
 to solve the problem.
  
  There are, though, vast improvements over any previous WWII shooter, and with all its flaws it 
 doesn't stop being incredibly fun, tense and gruesome. With the add of some psychological aspects 
 (the flashing image of a dead boy popping up on your screen as you move) , as well as some trully 
 marking moments as move on war-torn Holland, Hell's Highway makes its mark very effectively on 
 the crowded market of 'FPS's.
  
  For fans of the franchise, it's a much welcomed addition. For first time players like me, it's 
 a decent introduction. You can't really ask much more from a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  
  
  Whatever happens, WWII was, is & will always be one of the most exploited times in videogames... strategy, 
 shooters... whatever. It wouldn't surprise me if there would be a racing game taking place during 
 WWII. Anyways, that's not the point. Even though there are a hell lot of first pirson shooters 
 taking place in WWII, the tactical ones are few, the most remarkable being the Brothers in Arms 
 & Hidden & Dangerous series. The newest addition to the series is Brothers in Arms- Hell's Highway, 
 the much anticipated sequel, which impressed me so deeply to say that it's the best WWII shooter 
 ever made. But let's find out how I reached that conclusion.
  
  *****Story:10/10*****
  
  Brothers in Arms Hell's Highway is set into just one WWII operation, & that's Operation Market 
 Garden in Holland, by '44. It's nice that there is only one operation cause this way the producers 
 managed to stay more focused on it. As we know from the history books, Operation Market Garden 
 was the largest airborne invasion & also a great failure for the Allies. And that's what I totally 
 like about it: it's not the typical "Americans fight hard & win by the end" kind of game. Americans 
 die, British die, Nazis finally win. It's a vision with no compromises, & they also say it is inspired 
 from real events, characters & locations. I can't verify that but it might be true. To make it 
 short, it's the story of an airborne division, lead by Matt Baker, your character (also your caracter 
 in the first game, Brothers in Arms-Road to Hill 30) , Red Hartsock (the main character in the second 
 game, Brothers in Arms-Earned in Blood) , & also some other old characters like Paddock, Corrion 
 or new guys such as Franky. The one thing that separated the Brothers in Arms series from all the 
 other war shooters is the characters. They have their life which is sweet for them, they all have 
 their own way of thinking & acting, their own feelings. They're people with personality, not just 
 the random soldiers who shoot nazis & eventually die. Some really great cinematics between chapters 
 present the soldiers' lifes when they're not fighting: they tell jokes, laugh, think of back home 
 & their loved ones, smoke a cigar, make fun of someone, have their own thoughts & worries...& that 
 makes it seem so real. The storyline is related with the previous Brothers in Arms games, so you 
 would have a better experience if you've played the before. But there are flashbacks presenting 
 those certain moments, so don't worry about it. All in all the story in Brothers in Arms Hell's 
 Highway is easily one of the best in the genre, only beaten by the masterful scenery from Bioshock.
 
  
  *****Gameplay:9/10*****
  
  As I said before, Brothers in Arms Hell's Highway is a tactical FPS. It's very similar to its predecesors 
 but you could easily compare its sistem with Rainbow Six Vegas or even Gears of War. Starting with 
 the guns, you have three cathegories you can carry: an automatic rifle (tommy gun, mp40, you say 
 them...) , a rifle or sniper rifle & the faithful pistol (it really is a story behind that damned 
 gun, you'll find it out) . While automatics rifles work well when fighting in interiors, short distance 
 or when flanking supressed enemies, the rifle or the sniper rifle is always the option for a precise 
 long-distance shot. I also love to use the pistol when I have to finish off one or two supressed 
 enemies... it's great fun. Now to tell you about how the tactics work in Hell's Highway... it's simple 
 enough to master it in no time. You'll almost always have two squads of the four types: assault, 
 MG, main squad & bazooka team. When encountering enemies you'll need to send them to cover: you 
 cycle between them by presing the TAB button, you point them where to go with a right click, releasing 
 it to send them there. Then you go yourself to cover by pressin "Q" when behind any solid object. 
 Yep, exacly as in Gears of War, but here the physics also come into play, so a cover like a wooden 
 fence won't be a cover anymore after exposed to fire. Now the MG team is great for supressing the 
 germans, maybe killing some of them in the process. What is this supressing thing? From time to 
 time ,they pop out of cover & fire a few rounds. Now if exposed to constant fire, they won't dare 
 to do that anymore. So now you can easily send your assault team sideways to flank them & finish 
 them off, or you can choose to go yourself. If you've played the previous game you'll know the 
 indicators: a red circle above each opponent, which turns white if he gets supressed. So see it's 
 very simple... you'll get trough most of the confrontations by applying this strategy. However there 
 are moments when the enemies totally have the tactical advantage & if you'll immediatly try to 
 flank you'll be taken out by other squads, an emplaced MG or even a flak cannon or a tank. The 
 game also provides you with a tactical map which you can study & plan your attack. Let's say you 
 keep an assault squad supressed while your assault team keeps the emplacement under fire. You then 
 order your bazooka team to take a shot at the emplaced MG, & without getting hurt you dispose of 
 them. Then with the help of the assault team you dispose of the enemy teams, & finally use them 
 to lure the flak cannon, while you flank them with the bazooka team & destroy it. There are of 
 course more ways of doing all this, you just need to be inventive. The tanks are a really dumb 
 cathegory unfortunatelly. They just move on the same route & try to shoot you. You can try to lure 
 them & use the bazooka team to flank them or shoot their rear side, but I say don't bother, there 
 is a much easier way. You just blindly run to them, place a C4 & run like hell back. Job done, 
 enjoy the fireworks. Most of the time, the AI is embarassing. I really don't know why today, with 
 the total exception of FEAR & Bioshock, the AI in FPS games is totally embarasing (see the fresh 
 FarCry 2 for another extreme example of "intelligence") . The germans are totally stupid, they sometimes 
 stand in line & just look at you before realising that they have to shoot you. There are some few 
 moments when they get a little smarter but that doesn't happen too often. Your guys know to get 
 to cover even if you don't tell them & that's nice. They also act more intelligently then the enemies, 
 but they sometimes have dumb moments as well. For instance, my bazooka team just stood near a wall 
 while jerry was shooting at them, they responded to my orders but just wouldn't move. Oh well... 
 I almost forgot to tell you about the sections where you get to drive a tank. It's totally awesome 
 & simple alike, you just have to fire the main cannon with the LMB & the machine gun with RMB. 
 And you can also blow the hell out of buildings... hell yeah! The solo sections mainly take place 
 indoors, it will be just you, your guns & the germans. Use cover & it will be a peace of cake... fun 
 cake, that is!
  
  *****Graphics:10/10*****
  
  For the visual side of Brothers in Arms Hell's Highway, Unreal Engine 3 is the hero. I'd say it's 
 the best implemented in this game. The exteriors really look fantastic. That Holland landscape, 
 with those fields with tall grass, flowers & windmills, with the specific arhitecture... all buil 
 up in the finest of details. I really can't decribe how awesome everything looks, you'll have to 
 see it for yourself. The apparent visual problem would be the interiors, which don't look that 
 nice at all. Quite low-res textures, lack of fine details... mayne this part was a bit rushed, who 
 knows? Fortunatelly it's not that much of a problem, because you mainly fight outside. And also, 
 the deserted hospital interior by the end of the game looks fantastic & also quite depressing & 
 scary, managing to remind me of FEAR, with its long, deserted corridors, with a broken wheelchair 
 in the middle... One other bad thing about Hell's Highway is that the fire looks... horrible. Really. 
 What a pity... Anyways, saving the best for last, it's the GORE!!! Most of the WWII games barely 
 had blood, what to say about gore? Which is totally stupid, because war is horrible thing & should 
 be illustrated accordingly in order to really describe it. And that's what Brothers in Arms Hell's 
 Highway does, & it does it with style. Sometimes, when you manage to get a headshot, a killcam 
 interfeers, showing in slow motion how the nazi is hit, blood flows from his head & part of his 
 skull dismembers. Or with a well placed grenade you can see body parts flying all over... a hand 
 here, a leg there, half a body there. This feature really contributes to the overall atmosphere.
 
  
  *****Sound:10/10*****
  
  The audio in Hell's Highway is also high quality. The environmental sounds, gunshots, explosions 
 sound incredibly realistic & really make you feel there, in the middle of the battlefield. The 
 music is also remarkably well chosen & greatly boosts the war feeling. But maybe the best thing 
 about this game's sound is the voice acting: clearly done by proffesionals, they really manage 
 to express their feelings trough their tonality. Matt's speeches are profond & great, Corrion's 
 bad language & yells always add a bit of fun into everything... it's awesome. If I try to find a 
 bad part into all this, it's amybe just the germans voices, which are a bit annoying, cause some 
 lines are clearly repeated for too many times. But it's no big deal, trust me, you'll surely ignore 
 that.
  
  *****Overall Impression:10/10*****
  
  All in all, Brothers in Arms Hell's Highway is an excellent game, & you can't call yourself a FPS 
 addict if you don't play it. Not only is it the best game in the series... it is also quite clearly 
 the best tactical shooter ever released ,the best WWII shooter ever made & one of the best shooters 
 of all time. It managed to get in my FPS Hall of Fame, alongside STALKER-Shadow of Chernobyl, Bioshock, 
 Call of Juarez & Half Life 2. To make it clear: buy this game, it's totally worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saurosy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  This game surprised me ! Best world war game I`ve played ! Good continue for not so good beginning.
 
  
  
  Graphics - 9
  Audio - 7.5
  Gameplay - 9
  War feeling - 9
  
  
  Graphics - Depth of field in it`s best quality ! Especially in cut scenes. Great environment and 
 absolutely amazing facial expressions. Rain mission was very great. 
  
  Audio - nothing special, but that don`t mean, that it`s bad ! No. Audio quality - medium. But I 
 like, when Your comrades say - `Get behind cover, Baker` etc. when you got shot.
  
  Gameplay - good first person view and great 3rd person view when Baker is behind cover. But I didn`t 
 enjoy tank missions. That was lame ! I love when You shoot down someone from far distance and camera 
 zooms in and he dies in slow motion.
  
  War feeling - great atmosphere ! Realistic shooting etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpie125
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Who else has been waiting for this game since late 2005?
  
  If you've been turned off by the somewhat mediocre reviews, trust me. You won't be disappointed. 
 I had extremely high expectations, saw it was most likely a let down, tried it out without expecting 
 anything... it's probably one of my favourite shooters of this year.
  
  The story is brilliant. A lot of people wonder why they would set a game based on a losing operation, 
 but the story is really about the outfit in this situation. It's even closer to the epicness that 
 was Band of Brothers this time around. There are some pretty cool moments in the game (which are 
 story driven) that I had to shake my head in awe at. Don't want to give anything away, but Hell's 
 Highway is definitely darker than the last two games. The characters definitely have more of a 
 personality than the last games, and it's just become a more cinematic experience overall. 
  
  Gameplay is more of the same, but shooting plays a much bigger part (remember in Road to Hill 
 30? It was nearly impossible to pull off a headshot on guys dug-in, and the sights were moving 
 all over the place) . It's generally better for more people, but that just means a lot of the game 
 is easier than before. The addition of the bazooka team is pure bliss, making some of the firefights 
 THAT much more intense. 
  
  The graphics do the job. The only texture pop-ins on PC are from the environment, not the character 
 models, but it lasts only a full second or less. They're not stunning in any way, but its never 
 been Gearbox's strong suit. From Earned in Blood to Hell's Highway, I'd say that's an accomplishment 
 in itself. The only thing that bothers me really is the animation. The lip-syncing is much better 
 now, but there's a lot that looks really stiff when characters move around, take cover... you know. 
 I think Gearbox just needs to concentrate on that for the next game, as I was satisfied with everything 
 else.
  
  People say they hate the voice acting, and I personally thought the delivery could be a little 
 better for SOME lines (the conversation seems a little cut together and you can tell it was done 
 in a booth) but it's enough for you to enjoy the story.
  
  A for story and gameplay. B+ for graphics, detail on characters are pretty amazing, clipping (during 
 movies) and animation (during gameplay) are the biggest issues, but I'm not overly picky. I haven't 
 played multiplayer, so for a single player game, it's more than competent. I wish we had the game 
 from when it was first shown in 2006, but I'm still happy with it now.
  
  Definitely recommended.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellequin85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  
  Ok... I'm the first to admit I'm fairly insane, my friends would say I'm just plain nuts. 
  This 
 game is great, it builds on the previous two, the chracterisation is great the cinematics are fantastic 
 and the narrative is the best and most solid I have seen in a long, long time.
  The reason for me stating my level of sanity is simply down to the slow motion sequences and the 
 sheer greatness of the brutality. There's something very special about seeing a bodies flying and 
 limbs going everywhere and head shots... it just amuses me what more can I say.
  You actually care about your characters which is so rare in a Video Game these days but it would 
 also be nice to have some real handicaps for losing squad members.
  If you loved the last two in the series you'll love this, the game looks beautiful, it plays smoothly 
 and the gameplay is stunning. 
  ON the downside... the AI can be a little stupid, running into the middle of enemy fire when there's 
 a safe path they could follow, or the Nazis who love to pop their heads up just a lil too much... 
 providing you with the best chance of a head shot.
  My only true complaint about this game is that I seem to be getting through it very very quickly, 
 I waited 3 years for this to come out I hope it doesn't take them that long to release the next 
 one cus damn it... I want more.
  Now if you'll excuse me... where did I leave my BAR... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edd080
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  BIA: Hells Highway, has one of those stories which catches you the moment you start. The opening 
 scene of the game gives you that feeling that you are watching a nice World War II film series, 
 & recaps on the storyline of the past two previous games briefly to give the player a short description.
 
  
  The graphics are pretty amazing paying attention to quite some detail & also the sound effects 
 of the game are quite impressive, especially those who have 5.1 speakers, the game's sound is amazing 
 in my opinion.
  
  Control wise, the tactics of moving your squad, flanking, giving orders, etc, didn't change & remained 
 pretty much the same as the previous BIA's.
  
  I guess this is one of those games that will leave a person wanting for more, & also to look forward 
 to any sequels that might come out after this game (hopefully) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: h2k47
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 25, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Yes, as the title suggests, the AI of bia: HH is a joke. You can basically shoot any enemy with 
 a kar98 from a loong distance even if they are behind cover. They made it so easy even on the normal 
 difficulty. Also, if you check the mission where you have to save the lil boy and start sniping 
 from the roof, you will see germans foolishly running around the battlefield for you to pick them 
 off easily ... or were the germans that stupid in WWII? . nyway, one more slip to add is the sound 
 details bia had in earned in blood and hill 30 , in this new chapter, the thompson ( the one with 
 the round clip) has the exact same sound of the german's mp40!. While in earned in blood, they 
 added a very little yet amazing detail which is the sound of the rain falling on your helmet for 
 instance in addition to the authentic sounds that distinguished bia class. 
  
  It gets boring after a while when you play this game because it just keep repeating itself, you 
 are on one side, and they are on the other, you dont feel the enemy is everywhere, or can surround 
 you, or even threaten you. AI is set in fixed places around the map which makes it boring and lacking 
 of any variety.
  
  and one more thing... PLEASE NO MORE WWII GAMES, We memorized the WWII weaponary back and forth 
 and am sure all of us got bored of the same darn weapons being remade by different engines.
  
  cheers
  h2k47 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixtykurrumi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  It is a really good game but i think most of the people who gives it a bad score is because it 
 is a new style of FPS 'cause you have to control a squad and here you aren't the SUPER SOLDIER 
 who makes everything alone and that you alone kill like a thousand Germans like in many games, 
 I think this is a more realistic game, besides for some people having to control a squad can be 
 annoying so my recommendation is that you rent it first and try it before you buy it, 'cause is 
 a new style of game.
  
  What I think about the game is that it's am awesome game with great graphics, good sound, realistic 
 (depending the difficulty you choose) gameplay , and has this great thing of the blood that I think 
 makes everyone see how really war is and not the fiction shown in many games, although sometimes 
 might be a little exaggerated, I think you all give it a try, maybe you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your Matt baker and your back to lead your squad through operation market garden.
  
  Missions: Point A-B, Kill this and that blow this up.
  
  Controls: FPS style controls.
  
 
  Features: Great Story, Great graphics and audio.
  
  AI: Great AI. The germans react to your evey move and will flank you.
  
  Graphics:. The enviroments 
 are very open and wide and are also very detailed which you dont really find in most games now. 
 Amazing graphics
  
  Audio: The sounds is great as well. The gunhots are recorded from real wepons and sound amazing. 
 The explosions are great espically with surrond sound.
  
  Requirements: Mouse and Keyboard
  
  The Good: Great graphics, story and sound
  
  The Bad: 
 Nothing
  
  The Ugly: Nothing.
  
  Replay Ability: Medium.
  
  The Bottom Line: The best World war II shooter in years 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hinkwokching
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  The starting cinematics of the story mode will give the impression that the game would have a strong 
 connection to the story. However, I personally sensed that the game has little to do with part 
 of the story at large. I feel almost as though that the story are slotted-in for the sake of having 
 a story. The cinematics itself throughout the game are well made nontheless.
  
  The game is linear generally, but I think most people expected it to be linear, so little can be 
 said there. But I think like previous games of the same series, the ability to allow you to position 
 teamies and direct fire is still quite a novelty for me.
  
  The graphics of the game is very good in my opinion, certainly don't seem as lush as Crysis, but 
 you don't need as much of a machine to run the game either. I think the balance of graphics and 
 smoothness is a well done.
  
  The gore is a good edition to this sort of game, it really gives an idea of how bad some of the 
 injuries one can face in a combat situation, although I know that reality can get much worse yet. 
 This nontheless improves the feel of the game, in the context of a historic FPS of course.
  
  The controls are not commendable nor bad in general, but I only realised that you can sprint 
 after I completed the game once already. You don't really need it.
  
  Sound effect is commendable, I love the sound of the B. A. R. going off, or the stream of death from 
 the MG42. Ahh, music to my ears.
  
  But the fact that for most situations, all you need to do is take cover to be safe have it's problems. 
 I once walked off to have tea without pausing the game, and "I" am still alive 5 minutes later 
 in the same position, that made me feel a little uneasy. Enemies don't use grenades... The biggest 
 crime of the game in my opinion. The Wehrmacht infantry also never seemed to have learnt the trick 
 of using their panzerschreck on their Allied counterpart.
  
  The "authentic" difficulty is not really more difficult except that you don't get a cross-hair, 
 while I am fine with not having a cross-hair while running around, I thought that not having one 
 when leaning out of cover, even in "aiming" mode, is scandalous. What a slack way to "increase" 
 the difficulty!
  
  The gameplay is overall good, well put together, with some of the flaws I have mentioned above. 
 But as much as I mostly rant about all the "cons" of the game, they are not nearly as bad as to 
 have turn me away, the rest of the good stuff stacked well to tip the balance. Make no mistake, 
 this game is still enormously fun to play. Good going mate!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PET_
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  The game isn't that great. But it's worth playing. The graphics are good, the sound it's awasome 
 and the gameplay is enterdaining.
  
  What I didn't like was the night missions. There weare a couple of them that made me wish the game 
 will end soon.
  
  I liked the mission with the sniper and the tank.
  
  Basicly the game is:
  
  1. See a long cinematic
  2. Find the cover (after some time you can 
 see the cover and expect an ambush soon)
  3. Put your men there
  4. Hide behind cover with "Q"
  5. Get your head out and start to aim for enemy's head
  6. Eventualy 
 if you don't kill them you flank them
  
  That's all.
  
  Overall the game was refreshing. The story was a bit anoying. I only played the first game. The 
 second I missed so there was a "gap". But again, after some time, you just want to finish the game. 
 The game is to pretty to just stop playing, so you play some more. Not that you will play all day 
 or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobafett52885
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 31, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  Sound, Graphic are great in the game. 
  
  Here's my BEEF.
  
  Coming from beating BIA 1 and 2, this game is WAY to easy. When hiding behind cover you now have 
 a cross hair making the game 100 times easier than the first 2.
  
  In BIA 1 and 2 you HAD to look down the iron sight which was constantly moving because of breathing 
 providing a very realistic feel and this also encouraged you to use your squad. NOW i can just 
 sit behind cover and pick everyone off.
  
  Story: Trying to be EPIC but does ok. I not going to bash on the story to much, I do enjoy it but 
 its nothing special.
  
  -IF you a newb at FPS your going to like this.
  -IF your L33T or have beaten BIA1 and 2 you will most likely get bored.
  
  I just wish it was 
 harder. A challenging game makes HOLES in my walls. I don't see any new HOLES there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Been there done that is a perfect way to describe this game. Standard FPS, but the storyline makes 
 the game.
  
  Graphics- Standard, Unreal Engine game with nothing groundbreaking. Game gets a bonus for zero 
 issues... no crashes, no lock ups, a well coded game.
  
  Gameplay - FPS at its norm. Basic weapons, occasional options, but mostly straight forward. No 
 sub-missions, no real bonus factors. Still trying to figure out why I looked for all those Kilroy's. 
 AI was decent, but did fumble a bit and often ran into walls until dead.
  
  Storyline - Without it, this game wouldnt break a 6. Long cut scenes, but done well. Added a nice 
 twist to standard of the genre. Voice acting was top notch, and the characters had something about 
 them that made it that much more real.
  
  Overall - I gave Ubisoft my money, but hold off on yours until the well runs dry and you need a 
 basic FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Im sorry but this game just isnt it, theres far to much third person action for a first 
 person game... for example hiding around corners, desks, walls, whatever... it changes your first 
 person view making the experience of a war shatter. War games werent ment to be played 3rd person, 
 mass effect games were. Thats the key difference. And this game is not consistent at first person.
 
  
  Visuals: Good visuals, not stunning. The facial features are horrible.. they have no expressions 
 what-so-ever... i was completely bored by the storyline because its like talking to cardboard cutouts... 
 2008 almost 09.. and no facial expressions.. simply pathetic. Nintendo DS games have more expression 
 then this.
  
  Sound: Sound is on timing, and everything seems to be in order, though the voice acting isnt stunning 
 its just ok... some of the voice acting seems out of character, and out of place... for example 
 one of the first scenes the main character is talking to a group of guys - casually - in a hot 
 zone... it just seemed to vulnerable sense there were enemy's less then 100 feet away.
  
  Recommendation: Its not a bad game, but there are far better available.. if you dont mind the fake 
 art of war and are just looking for blood lust or a quick new game with some new content then go 
 for it. However i would not recommend this game to people like me who enjoy the story and gameplay 
 as much as the occasional head shots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RexMagnus
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  The combat felt stale, being far less dynamic than Call of Duty. Most fights boiled down to picking 
 off one guy at a time slowly. Basically it felt like just a whack-a-mole game waiting for the enemy 
 to pop his head out from cover. 
  
  AS for the team aspect, it felt stale to me. Maybe I'm just not a fan of team-based first person 
 shooters. I just didn't care about my team mates, and it usually felt like a burden to have to 
 think about using them.
  
  It's a graphics guzzeler, which doesn't scale down to medium computers (hd3850 has to run it on 
 lowest settings) .
  
  The story is only for people who've played the previous games. There are lots of references to 
 things in the past game, with little back story provided. They kept showing me things, and I'd 
 be like "who is that guy? why should I care he died?"
  
  I'd rather replay Call of Duty Modern Warfare for the 5th time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_prince123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  
  When we always hear about WWII Games We Remember medal of Honor I know the game was fantastic in 
 the first sequel but the last one was crap I think it was (airborne) But BIA: HH a masterpiece By 
 Gearbox I mean the story could work for a movie it's not like a shallow game Just Kill those Nazi 
 Solider and run no it's a great game with an outstanding gameplay I mean it's Better than ghost 
 recon ( ( Talking about PC version) ) You have assault, MG, base of fire and bazooka teams and all 
 are different unfortunately you have the bazooka team in two Missions Only.
  The Graphics of the game are outstanding not like Crysis but Close to you can blow up a building 
 if you have the bazooka team the Terrain is good too.
  The Story Is Good But if you didn't play the two BIA games you will not understand anything even 
 I played the tow BIA prequel But I think before 3 Years I need To refresh my memory and play it 
 again and the Briefing chapter wasn't enough to understand the story well but except for that the 
 story is Great and the cut scenes Are the best.
  The Gameplay has been improved and when you find cover you can change the camera from First Person 
 View to Third person view ( (Exactly like Rainbow six Vegas) ) and The orders are easy you can order 
 the solders to follow you are moving them or ordering them to move to cover or order them to attack 
 and every team has an advantage E. g.: Bazooka Team Can blow up Cover, MG Team can suppress the 
 enemy fast) ) but The Most Thing I Miss is the map In The BIA Prequels There was a 3D map when you 
 Press X then you can see where is the enemy and ordering your team to go to nice covers but the 
 map is gone and instead there is a normal map that I opened it several times only .
  The Game is one of 2008 Big game so anyone who like Tactical and WWII games You have to get it 
 I'm giving the game 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scientist8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Quick review:
  Pros: Authentic squad based tactics, immersive storyline for fans of the series, controls are great, 
 replayable through recon points and killroy points to find.
  Cons: Small squad glitches where they get stuck running in place, multiplayer is nothing new, suppression 
 indicators give away enemy positions far away making it too easy in some instances.
  
  Brothers in Arms Hell's Highway does not disappoint for the fans that have been playing since Road 
 to Hill 30 but for the newcomers of the series they may be lost without knowing the story and characters 
 from the first two games in the series.
  The game is as authentic as you want to make it with the options to turn off the cross-hairs or 
 suppression meters above the axis soldiers. Playing with the suppression meter can give you a big 
 advantage that's almost too much because they show over your enemies in a big distance so you know 
 where they are without even having to look around first. In the first two games it was difficult 
 to shoot the enemies yourself from a distance to promote flanking with your squad, in Hell's Highway 
 you can almost do the work yourself and pick most of the enemies off yourself without having to 
 issue and order to your squad. This brings me back to my first point where you can make it as authentic 
 as you want, turning off the cross-hairs makes this harder to do and allows you to enjoy where 
 the game shines using your squad effectively to flank the enemy. 
  In Hell's Highway some missions give you three squads to command with the new MG squad or Bazooka 
 squad which adds a lot more tactic and variety in the game play. Some missions you take command 
 of a tank which adds another nice variety in the game and is easy to control and a nice change 
 to the game play. 
  The only real problem I encountered was my first play through the game there were some glitches 
 where the squad I had ordered to an area would get hung up and run in place for awhile or sometimes 
 when you order one of your squads to a location sometimes they don't go the best way to that way 
 point and may get shot but that's partially on the player making sure it's safe to move the squads 
 which only makes this a minor issue.
  There's some nice replayability after you beat the game once you unlock Authentic difficulty and 
 you can go back and find all the Killroy secret drawings and Recon Points if you want to learn 
 some real history on the level.
  Overall, this game has a few minor issues with game play glitches but can be easily overlooked 
 because they are so small and can really be enjoyed for the gamers that appreciate authentic squad 
 based shooters.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubrules
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay : Much like Rainbow Six Vegas, Hell's Highway (referred to as HH from here on out) utilizes 
 a first to third person cover system for the majority of its gameplay. It handles very well and 
 gives you an extra tactical advantage while on the battlefield. My only complaint with it would 
 be that when you click to zoom like you would in first person to use the iron sights, it just zooms 
 in the view and i wish it used the iron sights, R6V does this when in third person cover mode. 
 Its not a big deal, just a minor complaint. The firefights are intense and realistic and never 
 get old in my opinion. The AI is generally very very smart, there were only a few instances where 
 players got stuck on an object briefly or didnt make the best of decisions (enemy and friendly 
 alike) but this was such a rare occurence that i was left mostly impressed by the AI. The tank 
 parts are a blast, a little easy, but a blast (no pun intended) . This is a core BiA game through 
 and through, old fans should love it and people that like tactical shooters that arent sick of 
 ww2 should absolutely give it a go. Id like to point out that the pc version controls much better 
 than its console counter parts, the console controls for digging in and movement are too clunky.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics in HH are extremely good, only a few instances do they not look up to par 
 with the rest of the game. The look their "worst" in some of the daylight sections of the game, 
 and look their absolute best in the night time sections particularly the Hospital part, the rain 
 filled part, and the actual Hell's Highway part. That's not to say the game looks bad in the day 
 time, its just that the games graphical flaws stand out more, and these are mostly just lackluster 
 texturing which doesnt really affect the game overall. The graphics are far superior on the pc 
 as well, the consoles suffer with jaggy surfaces and pop in. 
  
  Sound: It is absolutely amazing, some of the best weapon sounds i have heard in a shooter. The 
 voice acting is very good too, not to mention the music.
  
  Overall: The game is very solid through and through and has plenty of replay value for shooter 
 fans, those with nice pc's should definitely pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  How can i put it to you this is the best WW2 game on the markert ... & its one of the greatests 
 tactical shooter in town ... in my top 5 each place is shared fro 3 games & BIAHH is on 3rd with 
 GeoW & R6V ! This game compared to the other 2 has a more deep tactical system letting you control 
 more than one team + the lvel desing is built ... so that you can aproach the problem diferently 
 ... the enemies are quite good & the new chane of hit system is a more logical choice because everybody 
 uses the wolverine x-men idea ... of regenerating health ! The Unreal 3 engine must be the 1st 
 next-gen engine but man many games looked like yeack ! but if you treat it with respect & care 
 like Bioware & Irrational man you will be inpressed + the sound desing & the voice acting is spectacular 
 & the script surpasses Saving Private Ryan ... but you have to lay the 1st 2 game to get the whole 
 ideea ! What can i say the multiplayer is good but nothing special ... & i think that this game 
 deserves a 9 because its done with care & heart & you see those lovely details of love from gearbox 
 thru out the game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swehunt
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  First thoughts and story red line/background.
  ________ ________ - ________ ________ - ________ _______
  Althru im not that big a fan of historic 
 shooters I thought I might give a go with this game, and I was mostly lured by the nice footage 
 available on the game.
  
  As the story goes on it's about soldiers fighting in a distant country against German military, 
 we all know how this war was, but this is the soldiers story and their living with the war itself.
 
  
  You play as a squad leader, and the story fills in all the gaps, telling a story more involved 
 by the more you play, ingame there are no story, feels just like capture the flag or killing spree 
 but the story is explict by the cut-scenes. If this is a bad or good thing i leave for you to decide. 
 
  
  Gameplay.
  ________ _______ - _______ ______ - ________ _______
  Gameplay in this game is easy, just one button to select diffrent groups (basooka or assult teams) 
 and a second button to assign the teams. Some older games use 5-10 diffrent buttons to do the same 
 as theese two do just fine.
  
  As for your self you need to think in a taktical way or else you and your squad will die quite 
 quick, take diffrent aproch to diffrent tasks. Taking cover and use the basooka team on one of 
 germans shelters is a good exsample.
  
  The weponery isn't anythig thrilling, your teams have the MG and the basooka, you don't need thoose, 
 better to have a riffle and go the taktical route than blasting you way tru alone.
  You use all the normal FPS movement, but the running is a little akward i don't know but im not 
 a fan of this way to move in this game.
  
  Performance in visual and sound.
  ______ _________ - ________ _______ - ________ ________
  The performance of this game is not 
 bad, but just as many other games today there aren't to may visual settings to play with in the 
 settings. This is not a great idea, I would like to change evry parameter and take full control 
 over that, but I am happy to just go all with the highest settings also. 
  The game looks quite nice and have many nice features, but the textures could have been more realistic, 
 bumping the settings and forcing AA dont help on that things. 
  
  As for sound in this game is good but sometimes I felt the actors reading the text and not acting 
 like a good game should have in the monolouge, this migth have gotten the game to a higher level.
 
  
  
  Summary!
  ______ _______ - _______ ______ - ______ _______
  
  This game is a nice game, and i like the way to route the teams but im more into blasting and action, 
 this game is in a way a little more realistic than that, you search for cover then you assign your 
 teams and do tactical warfare.
  
  The AI in this game isn't anythig good, they sit in their cover and wait for you to come shoot 
 them, and their actions seems pre-decided, gamedevelopers have put enemy in searain plazes where 
 you have trubble to get them but still they sit so you can run 1m in front of them and shoot them 
 in the head.
  
  There arent to much action in this game, if you wait they don't re-route or find a better way to 
 supress you, this is mainly the AI's fault.
  
  But overall the game is very playable, and it's a nice looking game with some interesting story 
 going on.
  
  I'll give it 7/10 a good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:14 am PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway finally gets it right. What right, exactly? The story. Gearbox's 
 third entry into their innovative (I'm being serious here.) tactical WWII shooter tells a gripping, 
 emotionally resonant narrative, that really might conjure tears from the more sensitive. There's 
 a weird trade-off that comes with this, though. For all the improvements in storytelling, the tactical 
 gameplay that was so prominent in the first two games is significantly downplayed. The game attempts 
 to find a compromise between straight shooter and authentic squad-based tactics, but the results 
 are somewhat mixed. Still, Hell's Highway is by far my favorite out of the three and almost all 
 of that is attributed to its excellent, war-torn and heart-wrenching tale of Matt Baker's road 
 through the hellish fires of war.
  
  The first two Brothers in Arms covered the initial invasion of Normandy, but Hell's Highway jumps 
 several months into the war and starts right before the Operation Market Garden. This ambitious 
 plan had one singular goal in mind  end the war with one, massive strike right into the German 
 heartland. If you've read up on the outcome of this operation, you will know Baker and his men 
 are in for a lot of pain and emotional duress. 
  
  That's why Hell's Highway is so powerful from purely a story perspective. Baker's emotional trauma 
 is handled expertly as he slowly starts to crack, because of the losses that start piling up. This 
 isn't just Baker's story, though; his men also get some nice character development as well. Soldiers 
 like Red and Corrion play significant roles in Hell's Highway and the emotional ties between Baker 
 and the two creates some interesting drama. One instance in particular is absolutely gut-wrenching. 
 Just thinking about it gets my eyes all watery.
  
  Of course, execution of the narrative is critical and Hell's Highway handles it deftly. Cut-scenes 
 are long, compelling, contain superb cinematography and editing and develop characters. The writing 
 still has a few rare cringe-worthy lines, but it's generally great and the voice-acting is nearly 
 perfect, with the exception of a few soldiers. Compared to the first two games, Hell's Highway 
 is a revolution in storytelling. Compared to video games as a whole, Hell's Highway is compelling 
 drama and it stands as one of the, if not the best, story in a World War II game, ever. It's just 
 that good.
  
  The story is good enough to nearly make its deficiencies irrelevant, but only nearly. The main 
 problem child, and this a big one, is the gameplay. In general, Hell's Highway is one, huge step 
 back from what was established in Road to Hill 30 and expanded and honed to a fine point in Earned 
 in Blood. Hell's Highway tries to eschew a more action element into the game, while attempting 
 to attain the fire and maneuver tactic that was so prevalent in the first two entries.
  
  The series has always emphasized the four Fs: Find 'em, Fix 'em, Flank 'em and then Finish 'em. 
 It was such a core, fundamental tactic that was the series main gameplay crux and what really separated 
 it from all the Medal of Honors and Call of Dutys. You had a two-man squad, one for suppressing 
 and one for assault and it worked brilliantly. Firefights required more than twitch shooting and 
 tactics were essential. Hell's Highway drifts away from this.
  
  How? Firstly, a full-blown cover system. It basically works like any cover system you've seen ever 
 since Gears of War popularized it. It's a fine gameplay element, but for a series that prides itself 
 on authenticity, it's strange that most of your time will be spent in a third-person perspective, 
 because digging in to take cover is required to survive. Having so much situational awareness from 
 this view is, well, bizarre for the game, because it just doesn't seem like something that makes 
 sense in terms of realism. A first-person cover system would have been a better choice and if handled 
 well, could've made such a gritty and authentic series that much more gritty and authentic.
  
  A second, and almost as problematic, is the fine-tuned aiming. Whereas the first two games 
 made it tough to a draw a bead on a Nazi, Hell's Highway treats accuracy as any other shooter. 
 If you've drawn your sights on the enemy, he's dead once you pull the trigger. Again, for any other 
 shooter, this is a basic, important gameplay element, but with Hell's Highway, it further deemphasizes 
 squad tactics. Combined with the cover system and the tuned aiming, the game starts to play a lot 
 like Rainbow Six: Vegas or even, to a certain extent, Gears of War. The result? Hell's Highway 
 gets derivate.
  
  Gearbox seems to be aware of this shift in gameplay priorities, because the level design is way 
 more linear than what was present in the open-ended fields of Earned in Blood. Some areas have 
 little to no room for any real flanking maneuvers, which either means you're going to take pot 
 shots or tell your bazooka team to wipe every single Nazi off the battlefield. The AI on both sides 
 is more than able of providing fun, tactical battles, but Gearbox doesn't allow them many, many 
 times. Something even more shocking are the brief one-man missions, where you're left without a 
 squad. These take about around an hour of the game's time and such wasted time it is, because these 
 levels really do turn Hell's Highway into another WWII-shooter and nothing more. Something even 
 more shocking than that? One-man tank vehicle levels where you take control of a tank and blast 
 through German armor all on your own. It's ridiculous.
  
  Still, there are indisputable improvements, like destructible cover. It is a fairly integral gameplay 
 element, because weak cover, like wooden fences, can easily be destroyed, forcing you or the Germans 
 to find a better position or die. The new health system is the same auto-regenerative system that's 
 used in 98% of all shooters, but it is presented in a way that it's realistic. As more and more 
 fire is concentrated on you, the screen turns into a harsh crimson, until a bullet finally makes 
 its way into your internal organs. In essence, it's the same health system we've seen hundreds 
 of times, but the game presents it in a way that is sensible and does not betray the authenticity 
 Hell's Highway attempts to still strive for.
  
  Gearbox hasn't said much about its multi-player, and it's easy to see why. In theory, the multi-player 
 sounds great: A squad leader takes control of his squadmates, who are also controlled by humans 
 and hopefully takes whatever objective is present. It's like an awesome co-op mode. The problem? 
 No one listens to the squad leader. Mutiny and disregard of orders are common, as other players 
 will have their own agendas. Hell's Highway's multi-player will and probably has found an audience 
 of dedicated players willing to actually work togtether, but as a whole, the game's multi-player 
 is flawed, because of the amount of trust Gearbox puts on the player. Can't blame them for putting 
 so much faith on us, I suppose.
  
  On the other hand, Gearbox has been touting Hell's Highway's graphics and justifiably so. Soldiers 
 are extremely detailed and the game isn't afraid of getting a close-up of the character models 
 during the cut-scenes, because boy, it is hard to not admire the finer details up close. Environments 
 look great, especially when weather effects are put to great use (and unfortunately, is only used 
 in one level) , but foliage doesn't look so great, putting a damper on levels that are dense with 
 them. The game makes nice use of color, especially in the latter levels, when a hue and tone of 
 a level starts to represents the state of Baker and his men. Overall, Hell's Highway is a great-looking 
 game and probably could've been considered one of the best if it actually hit its first release 
 date.
  
  WWII games are generally known for having a strong audio component and Hell's Highway is definitely 
 not the exception. The epic orchestral score rarely appears, but when it does, it sends chills. 
 Absolutely superb. Sound effects pack a punch, from rata-tat-tat from your Thompson to a shell-shocking 
 AA round, the sound effects pull you in. Voice-acting is generally great, with the exception of 
 Courtland, who sounds way too wooden and green. Audio issues are technical in nature, the most 
 obvious being squadmates repeating the same voice clips. Holden's complaint of the communication 
 lapse deserves a special mention. Problems aside, Hell's Highway has a very strong audio component.
 
  
  Clocking in at around 10 hours, Hell's Highway provides tons of drama, but brings with it some 
 new gameplay elements that don't mesh with the series philosophy. Admittedly as a straight shooter, 
 Hell's Highway is competent, sometimes great in this regard. Most of my problems stemmed from how 
 Hell's Highway was drifting toward something more shooter-centric, because that wasn't what the 
 series was always about. Seeing Hell's Highway as just another, well, game, it's a well-built shooter 
 with some interesting squad mechanics that are useful from time to time. Now that Baker's story 
 is reaching the tail-end of the war, it'll be interesting to see how the dramatic shift in setting 
 will affect the next game. Until then, any fan of the series should pick up Hell's Highway without 
 hesitation, even if the gameplay won't play out as expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monco59
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - 9
  Visuals - 8.5
  Audio - 10
  Story/Multiplayer - 9
  Chin Factor - 9
  
  TrueScore - 9.1
  
  "Hell's Highway is a joyous mix of finely-crafted tactical combat and mature, 
 unapologetic storytelling."
  
  Despite crafting Opposing Force, the phenomenal expansion pack for the original Half-Life, Gearbox 
 Software is best known for their equally marvelous Brothers in Arms -series. BiA has always been 
 about tactical, realistic WWII action, peppered with an engrossing story and strong characters. 
 Hell's Highway is no exception. It continues Road to Hill 30's and Earned in Blood's finely-tuned 
 tactical combat gameplay, whilst infusing some much needed maturity into the shooter genre.
  
  The game takes place during Field Marshall Montgomery's infamous Operation Market Garden. As 
 anyone with a passing knowledge of WWII knows, the operation was an utter disaster, with over 17,000 
 Allied casualties in just over a week. Set against this bleak backdrop, you play as Staff Sergeant 
 Matthew Baker, tasked with leading his Recon squad through the fields and towns of Holland. As 
 the initial optimism of the mission crumbles and gives way to despair, it is also expertly portrayed 
 not only in the characters and story, but everything from mission objectives to level design and 
 overall mood. BiA has always been something of an anomaly amongst WWII shooters. Instead of switching 
 wildly between different soldiers, nationalities, countries and even continents, BiA has always 
 strived to maintain a close bond between the player and his in-game persona, at the same time reinforcing 
 the story by keeping it squarely aimed at a small group of men. Hell's Highway takes an already 
 strong backdrop and well established cast and digs deeper. As Baker loses man after man, each loss 
 shaking him to his core, he slowly begins to question his own sanity as do others around him. Hallucinations 
 begin to bother him more frequently. It's deep stuff and handled with great care and respect. The 
 only real downside is that the game overly relies on your knowledge of past games in the series, 
 particularly RtH30. Despite a recap at the start of the campaign, many will feel left out on the 
 more important aspects of the story if they have no previous knowledge of the canon. And even if 
 you've played the first game (released in 2005) , 3 years is a lot of time for someone to remember 
 past characters and happenings. Unfortunately, this turns an otherwise great and deep storyline 
 into a muddled mess at times. Not helping matters are occasional oddities in cutscenes. Sometimes 
 a cutscene will shift extremely abruptly or characters will seem to teleport great distances to 
 deliver their lines. It can be a jarring experience and confuse you even further. Therefore, barring 
 a visitation back to the first two games, I strongly suggest playing through the game twice. The 
 second time around you'll have a better understanding of what's happening and why, leading to a 
 more satisfying experience.
  
  Gameplay in Hell's Highway is atypical for the shooter genre. It strongly encourages use of smart 
 team tactics, laying down covering fire and flanking enemy positions. Like previous games, HH hammers 
 home the fact of strategic thinking and execution by forcing the player to learn and endorse the 
 Four F's of combat; Find him (locate the enemy) , Fix him (suppress the enemy) , Flank him (find 
 a position overlooking the enemy's exposed side) and Finish him (kind of self-explanatory, huh?) . 
 Needless to say, this is a game where foolishly running headfirst toward a squad of entrenched 
 Germans doesn't yield desirable results. As a new feature, Hell's Highway introduces the oh-so 
 popular cover system into the mix. Despite sounding like a contrived addition, it actually helps 
 the gameplay dramatically. Even though it has the somewhat unfortunate effect of turning a first-person 
 shooter into a third-person shooter for much of the time, it adds a sense of realism and ease into 
 the squad control mechanism by giving you a better view of the battlefield. Squad controls are 
 simple and context sensitive. By pressing and holding down the right mouse button, you call up 
 your squad commanding reticule. By pointing the reticule anywhere on the ground, you order your 
 squad to move to that position and take up any available cover. By pointing it at an enemy unit, 
 you order your squad to attack said enemy. The system is extremely intuitive and fun to use. And 
 it should be, since your success depends entirely on your ability to command your squads in a logical, 
 sensible manner. However, hampering the brilliant squad control mechanism is a friendly AI that 
 is prone to making bonehead moves, like taking up position on the wrong side of cover, thereby 
 exposing themselves. They even have the audacity to yell at you, complaining how unsafe they are. 
 Sometimes your squads will refuse to follow through on your orders or get stuck on scenery thanks 
 to some dubious pathfinding. However, moments and glitches like these are fairly rare, though when 
 they do happen it can be aggravating to no end.
  
  The level design in Hell's Highway is cohesive and natural, though sometimes it's painfully obvious 
 it was constructed entirely to allow for certain set pieces to occur. What also bothers me is that 
 the level design goads you into certain actions and dictates the strategy, rather then leaving 
 it up to you. Whenever you find an enemy squad up ahead blocking your path, checking the map will 
 reveal one obvious route you can use to flank the enemy. It would have been better to present you 
 with multiple paths or even open up the level design entirely and let players choose their strategy. 
 It ends up feeling like you were given this awesome power to command various squads, yet find no 
 real use for it, instead reducing yourself to elementary leapfrogging tactics.
  
  Visually, Hell's Highway varies between gorgeous and simply average, often without a moment's notice. 
 You've got some unfortunately low resolution textures and awkward, choppy animation to deal with. 
 Weapon models look quite bland and blurry and the architecture can sometimes feel a bit "boxy". 
 These issues are outweighed by detailed character models, excellent water effects (particularly 
 rain) and a spot-on artistic design and terrific lighting. The game boasts numerous occasions when 
 you'll want to stop in the heat of battle and just gawk at the scenery, be it those first early 
 morning sunrays filtering through clouds, a burning windmill sending a thick, black tower of smoke 
 up into the ominously crimson sky or carpet bombings lighting up the night sky, sending up tons 
 of dirt and debris. A nice touch is added by the color filters utilized in various missions. The 
 game starts sunny and bright, slowly turning to a subdued, darker palette and finally erupting 
 in a hellish red that perfectly captures the raw desperation, fear and brutality of the later missions. 
 The Hell's Highway mission actually looks like Hell, with burning wreckage everywhere, towering 
 black clouds piercing a burning sky and everything, including Baker, being enveloped in an oppressive 
 red glow. The game also manages to keep the framerate steady, with only a few minor glitches sprinkled 
 here and there. Options for tweaking the graphics are scarce and oversimplified, but since the 
 game works well with the settings given, there's little reason to start mucking about under the 
 hood. 
  
  One final, major gripe (at least for me) were the subdued effects firearms produce. Unlike previous 
 games in the series, weapons make a very small impact on the scenery. Instead of sending up liberal 
 amounts of debris, firing at the ground or any objects in the game produces a few funny puffs or 
 some pathetic splinters of wood. This is an extremely disappointing facet of the game and one that 
 drastically tones down the intensity and awesomeness of firefights. Luckily, explosions are still 
 "meaty" enough. Firing a bazooka at a bell tower blows up the entire upper portion into smithereens. 
 Chucking a grenade at a group of enemies not only flings dirt into the air, but body parts as well. 
 As you may have guessed, the game is very violent and gory. A grenade can easily tear a man in 
 two, spilling his guts for all the world to see. A well placed headshot will literally blow out 
 the back of your mark's cranium. Blood splatters in accordance with slasher-flick rules. Highlighting 
 these atrocities is the action cam. Every once in a while when you pop a Nazi in the noggin' or 
 blow up an entrenched group of enemies, the game zooms in and slows the action to showcase your 
 handiwork. Watching a group of soldiers get thrown into the air in slow motion, complete with rag-doll 
 physics, is a sight to behold. As is nailing an unsuspecting enemy straight between the eyes with 
 a sniper rifle, watching as his body tumbles backward in a shower of blood. Despite the ample gore, 
 it never feels gratuitous or exploitative. In fact, it strongly helps bring out the real brutality 
 of war and thus even further cementing the game's realistic approach to WWII.
  
  As is almost customary for a WWII shooter, weapon and combat sounds are of a high-quality and suitably 
 bombastic. Each weapon pierces the air with a distinctive sound, from the MP40's metallic clank 
 to the BAR's thunderous bass. Also customary for a WWII shooter is an equally bombastic score that 
 contains enough melodrama and heroic anthems to fill a Bruckheimer pic. In this regard, Hell's 
 Highway also delivers. Although you'll also find some more down-to-earth, intimate pieces in the 
 mix. They help underscore the game's emotional moments and your characters mental progression. 
 Finally, unlike is customary for most WWII shooters, the voice acting is also top-notch, and it 
 has to be to properly sell a story of such magnitude and seriousness. Particularly of note is Troy 
 Baker's portrayal of Matt Baker (yeah, Baker does Baker) . He brings an emotional depth and burdened 
 sadness into the character rarely seen in videogames. At one particular cutscene near the end of 
 the game, he delivers some grim news to a good friend and fellow soldier. This scene (as well as 
 another in which he is pleading to God) left an indelible mark on me and actually made me quiver, 
 reeling from a performance worthy of Hollywood. I know this may sound like hyperbole, but trust 
 me, if you see the scene for yourself, you'd have to be a husk of a man (or woman) to not feel 
 anything as Baker delivers his lines.
  
  All in all, Hell's Highway manages to be a thrilling addition to the series. It stumbles somewhat 
 in regards to graphics and level design. The AI can be a pain every now and then and multiplayer 
 is almost an afterthought, feeling very tacked on. Despite these issues though, you're left with 
 an exciting, albeit rather short singleplayer campaign. Luckily it holds up nicely for a few replays.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrEaK411
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  With another installment in to the Brothers in Arms series, this game puts it self above the previous 
 entries. This game just has it going on... The visuals are outstanding to say the least, and I 
 really dig the zoom in cam when you blow up or get a head shot. The story is meh compared to other 
 great fps but it still has its parts where it really immerses you. Multi-player on the other hand, 
 maybe its me but just doesn't keep me entertained for more than 5 minutes. This captures a lot 
 of great WWII moments just like Call of Duty did back in the day. I have a very high-end computer 
 and still get FPS spikes when the action starts getting explosive, so be wary of that. I do recommend 
 buying this game ONLY if you've played the previous titles other wise the story will make no sense 
 at all and you wont be all "WTF?". I just hope the next title will be just as great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tane666
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the first mission. During the second one I realize that i just keep doing same 
 thing all the time.
  Phase 1) Suppressing fire by your team. Phase 2) get closer. Phase 3) suppressing fire so you squad 
 can get closer. Phase 4) If you're still too far, start from phase 1 again.
  
  Maps are big enough in some places, which allows some tactical strategy, but that's all about circle 
 building and shoot enemy squad from flank. What makes it even more enjoyable, brutality of game 
 makes it feel even more "cool" and realistic (I have to admit, I really enjoy the way enemy soldiers 
 fall after taking shot, or the way I see blood splatter) .
  
  Although it's fun to command you mans, you need to do so much by yourself. Sometimes it feels like 
 you mans are there only for suppressing fire, which allows you move closer to get enemy killed. 
 Also in some cases it's better to leave squad behind and kill enemy, you mans could just stand 
 on the way. Then get your mans there, in case you need them in next situation.
  
  Game looks really nice and you got some kind of right feeling about it. But after 15 minutes try 
 to get across moors and dieing just before last cover, you need to start all over again since there 
 is no change to save, only checkpoints, which flattens your enjoyment of this game.
  
  After getting further in this game, I'll decide to change my score from 8,5 to 7,0. It's enjoyable 
 for while, then you get bored and stop it. Next day you notice that you want to play it again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hock1979
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  The second brothers didn't really improve on the first and this one only gets worse. Besides becoming 
 less historically accurate it is extremely repetitious. Add to this that the cutscenes are WAY 
 too long and depend entirely too much on knowlege of the previous game's story lines. The game 
 plays out like a bad male soap opera rather than a WWII FPS.
  
  Just a few things (among many) that nagged me from the game. 1. What's with a US paratrooper in 
 the 82d AB with a British accent? 2. Not every tank during operation Market Garden was a British 
 Sherman Firefly, and why do they all have US markings? 3. Number of rounds per magazine for many 
 of the weapons are inaccurate. 4. The AI is not that aggressive, they never even throw any grenades 
 at you. 5. Graphics are SO last year. I could go on but that's enough.
  
  Advice: Wait to find this one in a bargain bin or just skip it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skull24770437
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  I found the next chapter of Hell's Highway to be a very invigorating game to play. Unless you haven't 
 played the other brother in arm's series then its a bit hard to work out the storyline but once 
 you've played the other ones you can understand were hell's highway is coming from. I enjoyed it 
 very much and in authentic mode make's a real challenge believe you me.
  I've seen some saying that it's not a polished off game and I can't see why you feel this way to 
 enjoy all the graphical images you will need to make sure your pc has the latest hardware then 
 you can appreciate the total awesomeness of this game otherwise it looks blotchy and uninteresting.
 
  So my advice is to play the other brother in arms games then play Hell's Highway then decide and 
 you will probably then agree worth the buy but if you've only played Hell's Highway you cant rearlly 
 understand were the storyline is going to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamenecki
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 22, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  
  Since I haven't played the prequels, and saw all the positive reviews I picked up this squad based 
 shooter expecting something as good as Call of Duty. Oh boy, was I wrong.
  
  Where to start. Well, first off the game is too short. I finished it in two days, casual playing. 
 It's almost as the sequences between missions are longer than the missions themselves and you can't 
 skip them which is totally annoying. The acting and the plot are same old, same old, a hundred 
 times seen in other games and movies. They even threw in some mystery you won't care about and 
 will roll your eyes when it unravels. who cares, give me some Germans to shoot already. 
  
  The missions? Go from point A to point B on a very small map and shoot all the opposition. You 
 don't even need your squad as they're mostly idiots anyway (they can even block your movement completely 
 and make you stuck if you order them too close to you, they dig in on the wrong side of sandboxes, 
 can't throw a grenade by themselves, shoot a bazooka on they own, etc.)
  
  Too much missions are solo, where Baker goes by himself. There are like only 5-6 weapons in the 
 game, of which the best ones - sniper and the bazooka are usable only for a short time and in certain 
 missions. There are no melee fights, there is no health bar, you get shot 5 times, you duck and 
 get better in a few secs and then eat lead some more and duck again. It's almost impossible to 
 die if you duck regularly. 
  
  You can even duck behind some tin fence or some hay and a German 88 can shoot right into it several 
 times and you won't die. Bullets apparently go through wood only as do 88 shells :D
  
  Go play CoD and forget this overrated rubbish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allan_delacruz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I was eagerly waiting for this game, and yet its pretty much the same game as the originals. I 
 find that the gameplay is fairly repetitive and also find myself, too often, wondering "what am 
 I doing here?" The story doesn't seem to piece together the sections of a map too well. For instance, 
 after a long and tedious firefight, where I'm victorious, I walk just a few more feet, and there 
 are my buddies waiting there at the gate for the next part of the map's story. "What the heck.. 
 didn't you hear all the battlesounds across the fence?" Things like that don't make sense.
  
  The health game mechanic of enemy npc's doesn't make sense either. I remember seeing half of 
 an enemy behind a crate, and I shot his body several times but it was as if the bullets were feathers. 
 Where is the physics? or maybe animation? Needless to say the enemy got up and ran like he was 
 in the olympics, even after being shot several times.
  
  Although this game is focused on squad gameplay, you will find yourself doing all the work. 
 
  
  And as much realism as they tried to create, its not at all like a WWII scenario with just 3-4 
 guys taking out a whole town of germans at a time. I keep asking myself, "Wheres the freakin army 
 at?" A lot of times there is lone-wolf play.. what is that?
  
  I'm sorry I have to say that I wasted my $$$ on this game. This game is for Xbox and Playstation 
 players. I think I will stick with the authentic America's Army or Insurgency.
  
  Oh, I don't want to end my review with 100% negativity. I will say something positive. This game 
 is on steam and I love steam! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r1410
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I would have rated it higher except that nothing ever gets more than 9.0. This game is perfect. 
 It does not even need a patch that's how good it is for PC. I cannot praise it enough. The graphics 
 are breathtaking. The sounds perfect. Action perfect. Dialogue could have been better (I am biased 
 here because I use to write screenplays) . I can play this for hours as I feel really immersed into 
 the action. The artwork is stunning. Get this game if you don't have it. I personally feel this 
 captures WWII action much better than Call of Duty. Though Call of Duty is good. This is exceptional. 
 I can't wait to see it with a 9800 GTX. It will be like walking around in Holland. The next in 
 series will be even better no doubt. This took a lot of time and, yes, dedication. These guys like 
 our U. S. Army. They love our U. S. Army. And it is just too bad those who fought in WWII do not 
 have the opportunity to experience this. They would be amazed I am sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  So far I've played through about 4 hours or so and am dreadfully disappointed with Gearbox's latest 
 offering in the oft-regarded "serious shooter's" arsenal. First thing you'll notice, in-game is 
 the colour palette is much improved over the washed-out colours of the previous two, and the weapon 
 accuracy has been improved greatly without requiring requisite modding. Unfortunately, from the 
 "Click To Start" splashscreen, down to the gameplay itself, this game screams: CONSOLE-PORT!!! 
 The A. I. is plain daft (your mates and the enemy) , and the battles themselves several notches down 
 from the previous two ("Earned in Blood" was damn hard in places) . And what's with the "Recon Area" 
 points and the "Spot the Kilroy's"? Pure "Assassin's Creed" stuff, also a plain out port-to-console.
 
  The slow-mo cinematic 'headshots' and 'exploding limbs' can be turned off in the options, but 
 it's worth having a watch of them first before you do (bit of gratuitous fun) . The controls aren't 
 very keyboard/mouse friendly and when you sprint you cannot change direction without first stopping 
 (?) . Pressing the spacebar to 'stick' to cover brings back memories of "Rainbow Six: Vegas", another 
 console port, as is the weird absence of a 'jump' key (why you can't jump must be down to the weight 
 of your ruck sack) .
  Of course there are the usual Checkpoint Saves, and the strategic planning of your attacks, but 
 as I've said these are much simpler battles than before and on the whole nothing special. The few 
 'lone wolf' missions are boring and uninspired, especially if you've played any of the CoD games.
 
  Finally, while the terrain looks quite good, the same cannot be said of the character models and 
 the weapons. The faces often lose their graphic modelling in transition, and the guns look plain 
 dreadful when in iron-sight mode. Overall, the sound effects are pretty good, though nothing special. 
 I especially don't like throwing a grenade the size of a marble (it must be, because I can't see 
 it) .
  The MP is populated at present but with the other two games losing their MP appeal quite early 
 in their releases, there's nothing to show this will be any different.
  This is a game that will go to budget quite quickly, or at least drop in price. Unless you really 
 feel the need to visit Holland and tear up some picket fences with your Thompson, then I would 
 consider waiting for "CoD: World at War". This could very well be the end of the series, and a 
 sad note to leave it on. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sigsworth
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  An open letter to game developers:
  Please. You are making a game, not a movie. If you wanted to make a movie, make one. I want to 
 play a game. Yes, I understand that people die in war, and it is sad. I don't need to be hit over 
 the head with that fact every single cutscene. 
  Regarding BIA: HH. WTF? I played the first two games and I had no idea what was going on with the 
 story. Luckily I didn't really care, since, as mentioned above, I wanted to play a game, not watch 
 a movie. The cutscenes were, by and large, boring, interminable and senseless. Fortunately you 
 can skip them after completing the game.
  On the plus side, the gameplay was the best yet. Squad control is almost perfect, with squad members 
 taking cover pretty much were they should almost every time. The addition of MG and bazooka teams 
 is great. The "dig in" feature is extremely well executed, along the lines of Gears of War, but 
 better done. Unfortunately the tank driving scenarios are too arcade-like. If they can't do better 
 than that, next time just leave them out. Also the scenarios involving the desctruction of enemy 
 tanks by infantry are not very realistic. If I'm supposed to destroy a tank, give me a bazooka. 
 Don't expect me to run up to a tank and throw a satchel charge on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majkoenig77
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Even though companies seem to go back to WWII, I feel that its a big enough concept that there 
 is never "too much". Right around the corner is Call of Duty: World at War, which takes place in 
 the Pacific. Plus, its CO-OP! I wish BIAHH was like that. It does seem though more games are understanding 
 that co-op is becoming more and more popular these days.
  Anyways, the graphics are next gen, the sound as always is amazing, and the story line is as always, 
 superb. Unlike MOHAB, which had 0 story, BIAHH follows the true store of the Baker and Red, the 
 triumphs and defeats. Market Garden was a huge mission, and this plays that story very well. Many 
 dont understand exactly how big this was. Those who do respect it.
  I this this game deserves a lot of credit. Gearbox did a great job. Just needs a patch for co-op 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martinsabran
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  This version of this game is almost just a mission pack.
  Only better graphics and new story. Very too much linear like the previous version of the serie 
 BIA.
  
  Storyline is good and very authentic but for all the rest it is simply an up to date version of 
 graphic with another side story of WWII.
  
  I would only recommend it for people who are fan of the BIA series but be prepared not to have 
 any surprise. 
  
  Same strategic approach in a linear plot. Move, cover fire, and flank the ennemy when it is pin 
 down. 
  Good game but not much better than this. Personally I was very disappointed. 
  
  I would have expect more regarding game play and open fields to make different tactical moves to 
 resolve the mission. Maybe next time Gearbox Software should design their game into an open campaign 
 like Flashpoint but with the WWII storyline... would be great. 
  
  BIA is a good franchise. I just wonder This game is very well done. the story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pogintx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  Maybe there were some rough spots, like looking through a limb of apples when shooting the mg on 
 the tank; and the continued red effect when you were taking fire; other than that this is the best 
 of the best; this game was far more entertaining than EIB and RTH30. My machine handled it fine; 
 And the little hint at the end of the game, I look forward to the next in the series. If you havent 
 tried this one, be sure to pick it up and play it through. Most games I get, I play only the single 
 player levels, and a few times take advantage of the multiplayer end of it. The story line helped 
 to fill in the holes. I played the last few chapters in 1680x1050 and had no trouble. The graphics 
 flowed perfectly and i like the idea of taking cover and still being able to shoot. Grenades were 
 a little harder to get used to, since I dropped a couple when I was behind cover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ar31an09
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  I have always loved Brothers in Arms games. I have finished the old ones and finished that one 
 and this is the best one. All the annoying bugs or strange things have been fixed and there are 
 lots of new things to see and enjoy.
  
  Lets start with that what we see, the graphic. The game looks good. Yeah it uses Unreal Engine 
 3 but it still looks amazing. I know some people were **** about the some flowers what were 2D 
 but i think if i wouldn't knew it i would had never seen it. The game changes a lot. It starts 
 very "happy" and in the end its a lot more darker and it isn't so "happy". The water and fire effects 
 are so nice.
  
  Now lets talk about that what we feel if we play. All gaming sites have whined that it's sometimes 
 hard to command your squad because they jump over walls and other stuff and are open to fire. Strange 
 but i never had that problem. Maybe i knew how to command my squad. One of the best things was 
 that u could command a MG or Bazooka squad. They help a lot but there are some missions when u 
 don't have those squads. It's a bit sad that u can't control a tank but there are some moments 
 where u drive one. They aren't very hard and there are moments where they are boring. There were 
 2 very needed things to BiA series. One was better physics what we got now and is lots of fun because 
 it gives lots of new tactics and other was that u could jump over walls, fences and other things. 
 It opens the battlefield and gives lots of ideas. A strange thing was that if u put a bomb on a 
 gun or truck ur squad members didn't go away after u putted it and sometimes they even were next 
 to it. In the older games they went away on their own. Commanding a squad is the same and battles 
 got the same scale most of the time. There are sometimes when u can ambush enemys.
  
  Because u had to read a lot already i try to finish it fast. Multi player is kinda boring and i 
 didn't like it. It was a lot like CS where if u die u don't respawn
  
  The story is just amazing and the cutsceenes all are great. The first ones maybe are the best. 
 Gilders landing and everything els. It's just so good. The game sounds good
  
  It's a WWII game but u have to try it. U can't find a better WWII game, this one is the best out 
 there and it's a lot better than Crysis Warhead 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pidow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  The game sometimes has a few minor problems (men go the wrong way to cover) and sometimes do nothing. 
 Otherwise the game is great, the graphics and music are also great. The storyline is good and the 
 players involved fit... some better than others and I feel some should of had more involvement in 
 the story. However, I did not make the game, just enjoyed playing it. War has a funny way of depicting 
 people, sometimes not at their best, and at others, shows them standing out, being human, caring 
 about the well being of other's, who for a better word can not help themselves. This shows those 
 men, and how they tried to manage that war. BIA, also depicted the effects of war, too many battles, 
 too much loss of lives for nothing other than it being war, the pain, suffering and the momeries 
 of brothers lost, depression and sometimes a lack of hope!. As a vet, I also felt what they felt 
 and at times brought back memories of my own experiences. This game is the only one I have played 
 to date that tells what war is and how it effects the people
  fighting that war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  i remember when i was playing medal of honor in PS, then call of duty series came out for PS2, and 
 i know all of you agree that COD series are best in Genre. after experiencing COD series i was kind 
 of addicted to game's style and i just couldn't enjoy other WWII shooters, and then suddenly BIA 
 came into scene and amazed all the gamers including me by it's realistic and stunning style.
  well.... i guess it's time i just talk about the Hells Highway.....
  
  first thing first, if 
 you put aside the stunning graphic and visual effects, the starting scene of the game itself, makes 
 you even more excited about the storyline and game and you start to say "man... i wanna know what 
 happenned to Baker, is he dead ?"
  
  graphic is just better and there's a lot of details in game. the new thing is that objects like 
 glasses are breakable which makes the game more and more realistic. of course sometimes there are 
 some problems in cutscenes, like glitches or something.
  
  next thing is the slow motion camera, which starts when you shoot someone in head or blow a bunch 
 of soldiers up whit grenade. it's fun because you can see their bodies collapse in air, legs, hands 
 and bellies all go different ways !!
  
  At this concluding line i should say if you are looking for a game to play and enjoy, you are in 
 a right place. more over you really think you are in a liddle of war
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Azoroth
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  this game is an fluid unity between call of duty 2/gears of war/ and republic commando. this first 
 person action, squad command capabilities, and close combat flank flank fighting styles are in 
 near perfect harmony. the only downside i felt while playing this game was some control limitations 
 when attempting to command squads quickly and efficiently, the storyline, it did rely heavily on 
 previous titles which i'm afraid i never had the pleasure of playing, the sound effects for larger 
 explosions like when destroying an 88 seemed very lack luster and insignificant in comparison to 
 the actual look and feel of the explosion, also the single player campaign was short lived as it 
 took me less than 10 hours to beat though i did leave the game satisfied and will probably go back 
 and play the campaign again. the textures will load flawlessly unless you have a piece of junk 
 computer like i'm beginning to think the gamespot editors for this game might've used. the cutscenes 
 are by far some of the very best i've seen in any game, filled with emotion and finally some decent 
 jokes. a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kill_daqueen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  Its another gr8 game from Ubisoft.. I was expecting it to be another Medal of Honor type, but it 
 proved to be way b8r than that. And to me, it was b8r than Call of Duty 4.
  I played in Veteran mode and the combination of difficulty and gameplay options made the game one 
 of the most enjoyable game i have ever played. Ne 1 looking for a game to dip-in, this is the one. But 
 i must say, its just too addictive. I just couldnt leave it unfinished. the parallel story with 
 Joe Hartstocks story in the previous game made it more interesting. And the height of emotion added 
 to the game with the death of Franky's girlfriend took the game to a superior level. And finally 
 the command options were way b8r than the previous Brothers in arms games. thats all frm me.
  ghg sdfjh sgdjhsgd gshfdsdhf gjhfggf aksdfasgdf ggsadfiuasg gjhgf ugsgus ugusgd ug sdjg jgjsd jug 
 sjdg jgjsd jgjsgd jgjgjsgd kjg sdjgsd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jin_Kazawa
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  The story telling is ok. I love the way camera follows everything, as it was just passing by without 
 intention to follow anyone. Although the story is ok, I myself, have heard it a million times before 
 and somehow, I have difficulties connecting with character. It's all seen before and it gives no 
 thrill (to me at least) .
  
  As for gameplay... I love the reality part. There's no situation where you can run into 3-5 germs 
 and kill'em Rambo style. You'd probably be dead in the process of approaching them. Giving orders 
 to a team is fun, but sometimes impossible. Sometimes you'll have to get out of cover just to see 
 further. Of course there's a huge chance you still won't click in the right place or you'll be 
 killed. There is also a chance your team won't respond on your order of suppressing fire. That 
 happened to me and I had to deal with MG nest myself. Guys just didn't want to shoot at gerries. 
 Throwing grenade through window or behind obstacles proved to be quite a challenge. Don't always 
 trust the circle that shows where the grenade will fall. :D
  
  Anyway, this game is very playable until you reach, around middle game, and you start to realize, 
 some things are repeating. From playing 4-5 hours per day, I switched to 1 hour or less per day. 
 It's not boring, but it's not thrilling either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surferdude17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  The sequel to the highly acclaimed Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30 and Brother in Arms: Earned 
 in Blood is one of the greatest WWII shooters ever released. 
  
  Mixed with constant action, smart ai, and an emotional, inspiring true story make this game a must 
 play. 
  
  THE STORY:
  Brothers in Arms follows a squad of soldiers from the 101st Airbourne as they fight their way to 
 Berlin. In this sequel they take the fight to the Germans in what is known as, "Operation Market 
 Garden." The battles they encounter throughout Holland are some of the most intense and bloody 
 of the war.
  
  THE GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are simply beautful. The enviroment and battles seem like you are dropped right into 
 the fight yourself.
  
  REPLAYABLITY:
  Brothers in Arms will have you wanting more. On the moderate difficulty you can beat the game in 
 15-20 hours. After you finish it, you will find youself wanting to play it on the most difficult 
 setting next.
  
  OVERALL:
  The new addition to the Brothers in Arms series is the best yet. The captivating story of these 
 real soldiers make it feel like a movie. The action packed levels will not disappoint. The great 
 graphics will make this experience that much better. Finally, the accuracy of the battles, and 
 tactics make this one of the greatest WWII shooters ever released. I recommend this game everyone 
 who anyone who loves WWII games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codownsmoh
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I love the concept. I loved the first 2 Bia's and seeing this one made me tear. first 
 of all, I love the detailed 3rd-person models, and these world war 2 models were amazing. 
  
  hard to find flaws in the graphics.
  
  Like i said, i think the concepts flawless, a great 
 strategy ww2 shooter.
  
  10/10
  
  graphics.
  
  although environments could use more work, everything was still top notch, with a lot of work put 
 into it. such as the splintering wooden fences or the exploding sandbags
  
  gameplay 
  
  groundbreaking in 2005, comes back fresh and improved in almost every aspect. I love the 3rd 
 person rainbow six vegas take cover perspective
  
  
  sound 
  
  A true standout, I've never heard guns sound so realistic. Especially the stationary machine guns 
 (mg42's)
  
  production values (was delayed for over a year!)
  
  They had this game done last year, I remember watching some preview vids hearing that it would 
 come out in the summer of '07. I was pretty excited then but having the 
  release date pushed wayyy back just makes it so much more anticipated. I'm satisfied with what 
 i got as the result the delay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 18, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Review Deck
  
  Intel E8400 1333FSB
  4GB DDR2 800
  Windows Vista 64bit Ultimate
  Nvidia 8800 GTS
  
  I only got this game beacuse there haven't been many shooters released this 
 year - Yeh I love FPS but WWII shooters have been done to death.
  
  Anyway, unlike my many other reviews this on will be short and sweet, because there isn't a great 
 deal to say about this game.
  
  Story - Band of Brothers style scenario interspersed with frequent cutscenes.
  
  Graphics - 
 based on the Unreal 3 engine - but you wouldn't know it. Whilst lighting is nice in many places 
 the textures arent as good as they could be for the engine so either the devs aren't sure what 
 they were doing with this graphical masterpiece or they couldn't be bothered. Anyone who played 
 Medal of Honour Airborne earlier this year, which was also a WWII Shooter based on the U3 Engine 
 will immediately notice that is is graphically far superior to BIA. However this game does have 
 a couple of nice touches like the zoomed in slow-mo when you get a head shot.
  
  Gameplay - not much to say - same old stuff - secure the LZ, get raped 100 times by an npc with 
 a MG42 etc etc. Other than that the enemy has a big red dot above their heads which detracts from 
 the fun of finding enemies and killing them. Also you have to shoot the enemy 10 or so times before 
 they go down, even at close range.
  
  There is the checkpoint save game system which means playing the same bit over and over when you 
 get to a difficult part- and the checkpoints in this game are very far apart.
  
  Sound is fantastic, very realistic and good stereo.
  
  Stability is very good, not noticed 
 any bugs or problems, but anti-aliasing can sometimes be a little off.
  
  Overall, this game is pretty uninspiring, more of the same WWII gameplay. Its about time Devs did 
 something a little different bacause if you have played Battlefield, Medal of Honour, Call of Duty 
 etc, it's now like just playing the same game over and over again
  
  Graphics 8.5 (Doesnt reach full potential of U3 engine)
  Sound 9
  Gameplay 7
  Stability 9
 
  Overall 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximusPM
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  This review might contain spoilers. Keep that in mind!
  
  The first two games of the franchise were amazing. This third one promised a lot during development, 
 but the final product was kinda disappointing.
  
  The game has a great story. Market Garden is probably one of the darkest moments of WWII, at least 
 for the Allies. The game explores conflicts between Matthew Baker and his friends, and the impact 
 of war over their minds. The way story is told now is much more convincing then before, and really 
 gives the player the feeling of being into a WWII movie.
  
  There is a total mystic behind Matt's pistol that wasn't explored into previews games. It kinda 
 distorts a bit what happened in Road to Hill 30, but that is not such an issue.
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing. Really sharp, but there are some issues. When we first saw 
 tech demos about this game, there were some really impressive things that were cut off the game, 
 but there are also some pretty cool new things, and nobody can say it has bad graphics. The rain 
 effects are probably the best so far, and the destroyable environment gives you an authentic feeling 
 of being in combat.
  Some of the most noticeable issues are basically design choices that could be easily avoided. Every 
 time you take cover you can see Matt Baker (your character) . When you give an order, Matt's mouth 
 doesn't move, what looks awful. There is no need for lip sync or anything of that, but he simply 
 doesn't move his mouth. The game lost several points with that. Another similar thing is that later 
 in the game, Matt earns a couple of new scars. When the "Hell's Highway" mission starts you can 
 see the scars are still fresh and bloody in his face during the cutscenes, but when you take command 
 of Matt and take cover, you see his face fresh and clean. No cuts.
  
  Some animations are really bad. When you see Germans running backwards, it looks totally unnatural. 
 Occasionally when they are running forward the animation looks a bit weird too. But in the overall 
 the animations are quite sharp.
  
  When it comes to gameplay the game finally falls. It could have been a lot better. Like most games 
 of this generation Hell's Highway takes advantages from a cover system much like Rainbow Six Vegas, 
 with the exception that you cant blindfire. Here is where one of the bigger issues take place.
 
  You can't take cover everywhere. Sometimes you're being shot, and try to take cover in a perfectly 
 flat wall, but the game doesn't allow you to do so. Sometimes you take cover and you can walk behind 
 a totally irregular 'wall' with no problems while other times you get stuck into an almost flat 
 cover and cannot move for a better fire position, or move away from danger. Depending on the cover 
 you get too exposed, or when you peek around the corner you end up in a very uncomfortable situation.
 
  
  Many times you'll try to sprint to a cover and when you get there, instead of taking cover, you'll 
 end up jumping to the other side of the wall and get exposed, though, after a while you get used 
 to it and tight up your timing.
  
  Like previews games it only saves in checkpoints, and that's an issue here. Sometimes it saves 
 a checkpoint after 10 feet, and sometimes the game requires you to go through a big, wide area, 
 do a lot of things, flak several enemy positions, deal with a ****load of enemies and destroy tanks, 
 mg positions and 88s without giving you a save during this time. If you fail, you have to go through 
 all that again.
  
  The game is heavily based on taking cover, suppressing the enemy and flanking. But when it comes 
 to suppress the enemies, you have only two squads, while enemies sometimes have like four squads. 
 You never suppress all of them, and usually they are covering all the possible flanking positions 
 so hardly you get to flank them.
  
  The AI in the game is another issue. Friendly units like to take cover in the wrong places, wrong 
 side of walls and sometimes not take cover at all. They like to go to places you didn't tell them 
 to go and are awful suppressors. You can't order a squad to assault a position, and they like to 
 start firing at enemies without your consent. What can a rifleman do against a tank? Nothing, but 
 they start firing at one without you giving the order, exposing your position. That's not such 
 a problem since enemy tanks are even less smart. Controlling them is also a bit weird. You can 
 only tell them to go to a position, follow you or suppress. Once in a while when you tell them 
 to suppress they toss a grenade, but you can't choose when. So sometimes you'll tell them to suppress 
 two three-men enemy squads and they'll just shoot at them while some times you'll tell them to 
 suppress a one-man squad and they'll toss a grenade... and miss it.
  The bazooka guy is blind. He almost always hit a tree, another place far from the target and sometimes 
 he will hit YOU or the cover near were you are standing.
  
  The sound is still really good, but it also have issues. Sometimes the battlefield is just too 
 quiet. Though the machineguns sound authentic the firefights sometimes are not too intense. The 
 voice acting is superb, but during combat squad chat can be a bit annoying. All the time squadmates 
 keep complaining about the lack of movement or keep saying they cannot see the enemy. Everytime 
 you expose yourself they yell something like 'be careful, Baker' or 'you almost got shot'. You 
 know that, but sometimes you need to expose yourself. You know you need to flank the enemy, but 
 the squad is taking heavy fire. If friendlies die while they are talking, they finish the sentences 
 despite being dead.
  
  This game could have been much better. After the first hour or so you're not so excited with the 
 game anymore, and when the issues start to attract more your attention then the action, it can 
 be kinda frustrating.
  
  If you like strong storyline and WWII games, it's a really good game, but you have to learn how 
 to deal with all this problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henrynarits
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  I have always loved Brothers in Arms games. I have finished the old ones and finished that one 
 and this is the best one. All the annoying bugs or strange things have been fixed and there are 
 lots of new things to see and enjoy.
  
  Lets start with that what we see, the graphic. The game looks good. Yeah it uses Unreal Engine 
 3 but it still looks amazing. I know some people were **** about the some flowers what were 2D 
 but i think if i wouldn't knew it i would had never seen it. The game changes a lot. It starts 
 very "happy" and in the end its a lot more darker and it isn't so "happy". The water and fire effects 
 are so nice.
  
  Now lets talk about that what we feel if we play. All gaming sites have whined that it's sometimes 
 hard to command your squad because they jump over walls and other stuff and are open to fire. Strange 
 but i never had that problem. Maybe i knew how to command my squad. One of the best things was 
 that u could command a MG or Bazooka squad. They help a lot but there are some missions when u 
 don't have those squads. It's a bit sad that u can't control a tank but there are some moments 
 where u drive one. They aren't very hard and there are moments where they are boring. There were 
 2 very needed things to BiA series. One was better physics what we got now and is lots of fun because 
 it gives lots of new tactics and other was that u could jump over walls, fences and other things. 
 It opens the battlefield and gives lots of ideas. A strange thing was that if u put a bomb on a 
 gun or truck ur squad members didn't go away after u putted it and sometimes they even were next 
 to it. In the older games they went away on their own. Commanding a squad is the same and battles 
 got the same scale most of the time. There are sometimes when u can ambush enemys and then battles 
 are a bit larger.
  
  Because u had to read a lot already i try to finish it fast. Multi player is kinda boring and i 
 didn't like it. It was a lot like CS where if u die u don't respawn until next game and nobody 
 uses the cover system
  
  The story is just amazing and the cutsceenes all are great. The first ones maybe are the best. 
 Gilders landing and everything els. It's just so good. The game sounds good
  
  It's a WWII game but u have to try it. U can't find a better WWII game, this one is the best out 
 there and it's a lot better than Crysis Warhead, what i finished some time before this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devnull
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I really liked the predecessors in the series and I was not disappointed when I finalay got my 
 hands on the third episode.
  
  It builds on the same concept with you in first person mode much as in the 'Medal of Honour' and 
 'Call of Duty' series but also with the ability to lead your squad by directing fire teams, assault 
 teams and heavy weapons teams to follow your strategic orders.
  
  The game play is tense and varied and set in both country side and rural district of Holland during 
 operation Market Garden. The game looks really great as they've lifted the graphics to new heights 
 since last time. Destructable details like wooden fences, barrels, windows and, yes, even sheep 
 is also new.
  
  It's even more of an ongoing storyline in this episode. At times it get's a bit tedious to sit 
 through the story between the action and you get a feeling of "Yes, yes, get on with it." Specially 
 as there's no way to skip them. But after a while you really get into it, and although the story 
 is a bit predictive, pretentiously dark (not much laughter in this gang) and brouhaha you can't 
 help but taking an interest.
  
  Are there any weaknesses then? Yes, there is one and it spells Tank. In the two first games in 
 the series you got access to tanks as members of the squad you were leading, for you to direct 
 as strategy needed and you could climb the tank and use the MG on the turret if you wanted. This 
 was really great. In this game though on the tank missions you get your own tank as a tank commander 
 and no other squad elements. It's like driving around on a shooting range with the strategic element 
 totally lost. Also a tank that's not able to drive through stone walls, hedges or even barbed wire. 
 A great disappointment that loses the game a whole point in my grading.
  
  But that aside this is a very good game well worth both it's money and the wait (it's three years 
 since the two first games arrived) . I can't wait till the next episode which should take place 
 during the Battle of the Bulge if the ending of this episode is anything to go by. Let's hope they've 
 reverted the tank functions by then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andy1945
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  First of, I would like to say, that the beginning for me, was incredibly boring. Or... it went 
 on a little to long.
  
  You play as a Sergeant, who develops mental issues. And you might ass well, with spooky levels, 
 surprising cinematics and a surprise somewhat half-way-through the game.
  
  The first time i got into cover with machinegun fire on me, and the bullets pounding my stone wall 
 cover, i was hooked. That, and the graphics... the lifelike movements of the AI. Not that buggy 
 movement *into a wall, whoops*.
  
  I can only really sum it up this way.
  
  Brothers in Arms has been with the latest two titles, the first one and the sequel, unable to reach 
 the A-List. They have done it with this one. It has seen way more development, and seem more complete 
 than the first two.
  
  When it comes to WWII shooters, I must compare it with Call of Duty by Activision, and Medal of 
 Honor by EA.
  *WARNING, Personal opinion*, The only two MOH titles I enjoyed, was Airbourne and Pacific Assault. 
 All prior to that, was... erhm... to "undone". All Call of Duty titles though have been good, the 
 number 2 beeing the best.
  
  That beeing said. Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway deserves to be mentioned. That and CoD 2, is 
 what I would take with me on a deserted island.
  
  Well done, Gearbox. I'm looking forward to a sequel (since they say "To be continued") . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodylotion
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  ( ( Some Minor Spoilers ) )
  
  When i heard about this game being made about WW2: Operation Market i found out you get to play 
 in my hometown 'Eindhoven'. To me that alone was pretty amazing and it just might be the real reason 
 i bought this game.
  
  There are a lot of WW2 shooters so why would you buy BiA? BiA isn't that different really, the 
 main difference in BiA is that this time you can command your squads to go somewhere and hide behind 
 a wall and take cover. You could say BiA is a bit tactical, you will have to order your men to 
 good positions or they will die but on the other hand it's not that hard to kill most of the enemies 
 yourself after you get the hang of it.
  
  Your teammates don't always act very realistic when taking cover but that's not a real problem. 
 The germans seem to always try to shoot you first unless you're hiding. Your enemies do try to 
 take cover but they will never try to outsmart you and your squads. So the A. I. isn't very good 
 but not very bad either.
  
  The Graphics in BiA are not superbe but they'll manage to create a colourful world (sometimes too 
 colourful) . Holland looks pretty good and i must say a lot of these houses look just like mine. 
 The town Eindhoven also looks pretty good, churches and big houses are well created like they are 
 in real life.
  
  The story is pretty basic and emotional. I Wish it was a bit more emotional sometimes and to me 
 the end of the game was pretty bad. Ofcourse Gearbox had to make the game as realistic as possible, 
 but when you've finished Eindhoven, you get to back to the villages and the game only get's easier 
 from there in my opinion. I must say i was kinda dissapointed because you have to fight through 
 Eindhoven quite some time but not enough. 
  
  Conclusion:
  BiA is a great game, you will have to like shooters and WW2 games. Also the difficulty is not hard, 
 once you get the hang of it. If you want a nice game right now just pick this one up. If you're 
 buying another game wait till this one is cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xwestsdeaznx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Set in Hell's Highway, the game recreates some of the battles and scrims taken place there. First 
 of all, the graphics are amazing - yeah, graphics do not determine if the game sucks or not but 
 seriously; the level of detail and texture in this game is amazing. You can see the sand dripping 
 out of sandbags after shooting them or the huge mound of dirt the 88's leave when they fire at 
 you. The cinematics of this game are very good and sometimes very gory - like a Saw movie or any 
 scary thing that scares you. Movement may feel abit different in this game considering there is 
 technically no 'jump' button. Instead, you can do a full sprint without losing breath and jump 
 over obstacles if they are in your way. Most cover is destructible - either by gun fire or grenades. 
 Squad command is something I haven't seen done in a WW2 shooter. Commanding squads is easy and 
 simple requiring only the right button to tell squads to move, shoot, destroy cover, and throw 
 grenades.
  
  Moving guns may seem shakey, guns shot produce almost accurate amount of recoil, usually requiring 
 you to either scope in or dig in. "Dig in" is a concept borrowed from many games like Perfect Dark 
 Zero, Gears of War, and the Rainbow Six series. It puts your character in 3rd person view and allows 
 you to pop up and shoot the enemy when they dig in for cover. Speaking of enemies; AI is pretty 
 intelligent but not Farcry or Crysis intelligent. They run when a grenade is in near them (prompting 
 them to be shot by my squad in there backs) and react differently depending on there suppression 
 - more suppression, they shoot less and hide. Less suppression and they shoot more often and less 
 on the defensive. Level design is amazing, from the open fields of Holland to the fire and brimstone 
 of urban warfare. This is a must buy for the single player.
  
  The multiplayer is lacking - huge lagantcy, problems with finding people to play with and the onset 
 of problems with digging in. In retrospect, the game is awesome for it's immersive single player 
 mode. I recommend a buy but if your a fan of CoD then I'll recommend you pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v00d00x
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  The psychological factor is well placed in this game. Its not only about the gameplay, but it makes 
 you feel that you are living the war. The history, the cameras, the flashbacks, the explosions, 
 the slow motions are just amazing. Although the game is not only about first-person, you also have 
 a squad at your command which can really help you if you placed them at the right places, at the 
 right time.
  The only flaw that i've found in this game must be at the slow motions (when you make an headshot 
 with your M1-Garand) when the bullet hits your target and the bullet trace is still very far from 
 the target.
  If you prefer playing with a machine gun like the BAR (Browning Automatic Rifle) you are going 
 to be a little upset when you find out that the M1 Garand is a lot better in this game.
  Finally some innovative gameplay can be found on a second world war based game.
  I truly recommend 
 the FPS fans to try this game, you won't regret it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legolose
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  Lets start by saying by far one of the best storys in any game I have ever played... No joke the 
 absolute best story... the graphics are simply Amazing and the gameplay is right there farely easy 
 to use... its been along time sence I got so wrapped up in a game that I didnt even think of playing 
 online or any other game, now I havent played online yet but if its half as good as single player 
 then.. well folks.. what we have here is a pretty good game.. there is an in game help for us noobs 
 that hasn't played BIA'S games before and the whole command thing is great and easy to use.. like 
 I said the most amazing graphics.. for pc games now days its amazing that they even put good graphics 
 in it, but trust me you are not getting burned if you get the pc version of this game ... Lets 
 just say that I have kinda gottin away from playing first person shooters.. when I think I, m almost 
 out.... they pull me back in... I NOW cant wait for the next one which I think its going to be in 
 the battle of the bulge.. just a hunch.. LOL..."Do you like the Snow".... LOL.. cant wait.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commando8535
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  It's been approximately two years since the release of the last game in the series; Delay after 
 Delay Hells Highway is finally here. This game is a mix of a war movie and tactical first person 
 shooter.
  
  Game Play:
  Honestly not much has changed since the inception of the first game; You now command three teams 
 instead of one (An added Heavy Weapons Detachment, armed with a Bazooka or MG depending on the 
 situation) . This game emphasizes SQUAD BASED Tactics, no more run and gun game play or spray and 
 pray tactics. This game utilizes your ability to exploit the enemy and destroy him (something we 
 are taught in the Army) . This game however removes the tank as apart of your squad instead it is 
 replaced by you commanding a tank (Driving, Shooting etc) in about four levels of the game. Another 
 part of the game that has been changed is the punishing health system; it's replaced with the system 
 that is in use with CoD4 and Rainbow Six; your health magically regenerates once you get behind 
 cover. The AI has also been changed, in that they are no longer stationary, they will react to 
 grenades, and will actually start to flee if you suppress them long enough, unfortunately your 
 team mates intelligence is drastically lower, they no longer fire out of their own will instead 
 they'll wait for you to give them that order (which is actually somewhat realistic, in the military 
 you actually have to wait for what we call a "GRIT or a Fire Control Order") . One feature that 
 I like, is that of destructible cover; unlike some games, you can shoot a wooden fence all day 
 long and it wouldn't shatter, in BIA HH you can shoot the same fence and it will shatter exposing 
 that Nazi Soldier whose been taking shots at you.
  
  I don't know if it's just me, but at times especially some of the solo missions and night missions, 
 the game and setting almost resembles FEAR. 
  
  Storyline:
  Honestly, the storyline of Brothers in Arms is what makes this game different from any other game 
 in the genre. The story in this game is at times heart breaking, humorous and dramatic. The game 
 actually plays out like a movie.
  
  Sound:
  The Sound Effects is actually one of the best I've ever heard. 
  
  Graphics:
  What can I 
 say, It has drastically improved since the original game, but there are still some graphically 
 issues (flowers and grass looks 2D, still the problem of clipping) but the effects, and rag doll 
 physics is simply amazing. It's war and you would expect to see some gruesome stuff, BIAHH takes 
 it one step further; you'll see limbs blown off, bodies torn in half, heads getting blown off. 
 Buildings being blown to hell. 
  
  Criticisms:
  What would a review be without criticisms? This game does have it's flaws, like I mentioned earlier 
 your team mates are a bit on the unintelligent side. There are times where the enemy somehow shoots 
 through a wall and ends up hitting you. The Single Player portion is actually pretty short. Graphics 
 are excellent, but like I mentioned earlier some of the textures could be refined a little more. 
 Another thing that really pissed me off was actually the requirements, I spent almost $200 of my 
 Army pay on upgrading RAM, Video Card and Power Supply. I could have used that money on University 
 books. After all that upgrading I still can't play the game on high settings; (Game Companies have 
 to understand that were not all rich and were not all going to rush out and waste $4,000 on a gaming 
 rig (I have better uses for my money) .) And the last thing that pissed me off was a Bloody Cliff 
 Hanger ending. (Yes there is a cliff hanger and there is a mention of "snow" in the dialogue, a 
 possible reference to the Battle of the Bulge) . 
  
  Overall
  I think the wait was worth it for the Single Player portion of the game; but shipping out with 
 only one MP mode? Come On. Overall this is the best game in the series. This game shows you what 
 war is really like, war isn't glamorous, nor is it fun. It's serious and down right dirty. Honestly 
 who would want to see their best friend's brains blown out? This game also shows you the Emotionally 
 and Physical toll that war has on soldiers; you'll see PTSD in the game. You'll also see what it's 
 like to command soldiers in battle. 
  
  If you want a taste of what it's like to be a soldier, or in a war this is the game for you. If 
 your a fan of run and gun, spray and fire then I highly suggest you buy something else. This game 
 uses tactics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  World War II shooters are a dime a dozen these days. Why, in November, Call of Duty World at War 
 is coming out! I have never played the previous Brothers in Arms games, so Hell's Highway is the 
 first game for me. So the setting is growing somewhat stale now but what keeps it from being an 
 average game is the amazing story and the tactical gameplay. In fact, I'll go so far as to say 
 that the story is one of the best I've seen in a video game. You play as the fictional Staff-Sergeant 
 Matt Baker leading the 101st Airborne Division during Operation Market Garden, the largest airborne 
 invasion ever seen. The goal was primarily to secure key bridges in Holland and drive back the 
 German Nazi's. Unfortunately, the mission proved to be a failure due to the well-equipped II. SS 
 Panzer Corps. It's unusual the developers chose such a topic in which the Allies were defeated 
 for the third installment. What really makes the story a winner is the characters. You really feel 
 for them and get that all they want to do is quickly win the war and "get home by Christmas." Of 
 course, fate isn't so kind and one of the major characters suffer an injury that is even worse 
 then death. The only bad thing about the story is that it relies a little too much on previous 
 knowledge of the story in Brothers in Arms 1 and 2 which might make newcomers somewhat confused. 
 You'll still get the gist of it though. Unlike Call of Duty, you don't just blast hundreds of Germans 
 in the face. The gameplay is more closer to Rainbow Six Vegas, only you control 2 to 3 squads in 
 each mission. You can order them to take cover or rally behind you and they generally do a good 
 job providing cover/suppressive fire on the enemy. There are some path-finding issues but nothing 
 too game breaking. To survive 90% of the time, you'll have to take cover and take potshots at the 
 enemy. This is done with the Q button and you can press Spacebar to jump over cover, hold it to 
 sprint and press Q again when you reach another piece of cover. It makes each battle much more 
 intense because 2 or 3 sniper bullets or sustained fire for 3 to 5 seconds will kill you, putting 
 you back at the last checkpoint (spaced after you complete each objective) . Graphics are pretty 
 sharp; the game uses the Unreal Engine 3.0 and character models are top-notch. You'll engage in 
 shootouts on grassy fields, destroyed trainyards or rainy streets, and all of them look pretty 
 good with detailed textures, though the trees and grass look somewhat cartoonish. Sound exhibits 
 the same high quality as the graphics with each weapon sounding exactly as they should; in other 
 words, it feels like you're holding the weapon. Voice acting is spot-on and helps you really feel 
 for each of the characters. There was one part where a soldier gets injured by a mortar round and 
 his comrade rushes over to do CPR; as his friend fades, he starts getting desperate. That was a 
 very poignant scene and shows that war, no matter what you're fighting for, is an ugly affair, 
 for both sides. There's also multiplayer but I wasn't too interested in playing. It's pretty much 
 a squad based capture the flag game, with each map supporting 20 players. Games in the World War 
 II genre are getting harder and harder to catch the attention of gamers nowadays, with the exception 
 of established franchises like Call of Duty, Medal of Honor, or Brothers in Arms. Like I said, 
 its nothing special but there's just enough here to keep you interested. Judging from the "To be 
 continued" at the end of the game, there's gonna be another installment and I look forward to it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrayEagle
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is ok, but not everything its cracked up to be. The graphics are nice, however 
 the gameplay can get boring and repetitive unless your driving a tank or on a solo mission. The 
 story was very good, but very short and the ending was, to say the least a drop-off and a cliff 
 hanger. On to the review:
  
  Graphics: 8.0; The graphics were nice, but not perfect. The gore aspect is over-rated, sure your 
 first three amputations of a German will make you stop to stare in wonder, but it gets old fast. 
 The headshots when they dont take half of the head away are ok but look out of place without any 
 blood or anything on their shirt or surrounding area. Thats another thing, the dev team could make 
 that gore but couldn't incorperate bullet holes in the body nor bleeding? Looks out of place to 
 have a guy whos missing half of his body not to have a pool of blood around him.
  
  Audio: 9.0; Audio was great, shots sounded realistic as well as other things, however your men 
 yelling at you that your "the luckiest man I know" whenever you pop up from cover gets annoying 
 fast. Espically when its a Brit with the "man" replaced by "yank". 
  
  Gameplay: 6.8; The gameplay of the game has its ups and downs. The majority of the time its repetitive 
 and boring, focusing your men's fire on German units while you flank them and take them out. However 
 there are parts in the game where it gets really fun, such as when you drive the tanks or clear 
 a house by yourself. 
  
  While the dev team strived to be realistic as possible they missed with the amount of ammo you 
 get. Such as for EVERY gun you get 21 (including the one in your gun) clips of ammo. Now this seems 
 fun and dandy to the ammo wasting rambo'er, but I dont see the realisticness in carring 20 clips 
 for a Thompson (6 is more realistic) along with 20 for your M1, BAR, K98, MP40, etc. Not to mention 
 as said before this is MORE than enough ammo to get you through most if not all of a mission, the 
 only real reason you would stop at a ammo cache to stock up is to get more grenades.
  
  Sotryline: 9.5; The story line is great, and reviles secrets of the past two games, as to what 
 really happened to Allen and Garnett. However, you do not see as much of Legett as the previews 
 let on, and he doesn't really seem to mean anything until the ending cinematic. However not to 
 spoil anything I won't say how.
  
  Multiplayer: 6-8 (depending on the experience) ; The online multiplayer is mixed, it has its ups 
 as well as its downs. When you start a game you will be assinged a fire-team and asked to choose 
 your weapon. The goal is to take down the enemy flag and raise your own. If your the defensive 
 team you will get a specalist fire-team, witch its members can use a LMG, a RPG, or a Sniper Rifle. 
 The assualting team does not have a Specialist fireteam, but they do get a tank witch 3 people 
 crew, a driver, a gunner, and a spotter. 
  
  Thats my review for Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway. This game is recommended, while it still 
 has its bads. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timo_87
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  To me this game was worth the wait. I'm some sort fan of ww2 games and I liked this very much.
 
  
  Little things make this game great. The basic game play works great as it did on previous BIA games. 
 Slow motion "sequences" are little bit out of place in this game but they make it fun to play. 
 Gore system is good and I think it's about time they made one on ww2 game. Game engine runs good 
 (at least on my hardware) and physics are done well. The moments Baker was departed from his squad 
 were also very well done and were actually most exiting times in the whole game. Specially the 
 hospital "scene". 
  
  Story telling has improved from the previous parts which is a good thing they gave more info of 
 the main characters and that made them more realistic. The game was bit short but definitely worth 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underdog11297
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  There's a lot of reviews out there already for BIAHH, so I'll keep it brief.
  
  I would recommend playing Gearbox's previous two installments of Brothers In Arms before you play 
 this, although it isn't required, to get a feel for the gameplay, but more importantly, the story. 
 What I love so much about this series is it's obsessiveness to stay true to the actual story of 
 each man's life, and how the battles played out. Unfortunately, it is a game, and is therefore 
 limited in how it accomplishes this, but it is a great game nonetheless.
  
  What I liked:
  The squad based mechanics are well thought out and implemented.
  The intensity 
 of battle is presented better than the previous games (ambient sounds, lack of battle music, slow 
 motion capture of awesome kills) .
  You will actually care for your fellow Soldiers.
  
  What I didn't like:
  Some bug issues, such as clipping when "dug-in" and getting stuck on the 
 object I'm hiding behind.
  Bullets still travel so slow you can watch them pass by.
  
  What I am indifferent to:
  The graphics. The detail on the characters faces are incredible, and 
 the animations believable, but somewhere I think the idea of spectacular graphics seen in the videos 
 was lost. There is inconsistency in the resolution of a lot of different textures. Some things 
 look amazing (like the sky, characters, etc.) while other things seem as if they don't belong or 
 were poorly implemented (grass appearing out of nowhere, improper water reflections, etc.)
  The damage system. They wanted realism, yet put in a quick regenerative system where you are completely 
 fine if you hide for a matter of seconds.
  
  Just like any other game, I think there is room for improvement, but BIAHH is definitely a good 
 choice if you are a fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inferna_hermit
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  The Great game lost of HDRs, Best game in the World War Games yet, controlls looks great ,i played 
 both Xbox360 And PC and finish both of them ,in 360 the game has a lots of bugs and texture loading 
 problems but in PC version graphic was sharper and no loading texture in cutscenes. gamespots 8.5 
 score is right for console version of the game but PC version of the game is much more better than 
 that. Great Drama story really good connected too last 2 version of the game and it should be a 
 movie.
  
  graphic look amazing but some bugs, don't worry it's only in game cutscenes, and you don't have 
 these bugs in game. there's only one weakness of the game and it's graphic of the charecters faces. if 
 you like games like Rainbow6: vegas and Gears of War u should play this game the gameplay is the 
 same.
  
  Sound perfect : 10
  Graphic : 10
  Story : 10
  Gameplay : 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hubykx
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  The cinematics are not that bad, but poor in quality, even at max settings it looks pretty outdated. 
 The AI only responds when you are in cover and go out from the cover, aiming with sniper riffle 
 is extremely easy. Physics are weird and grenade launching is almost impossible in narrow spaces. 
 Sometimes your team does not know where they are going to, "war moments" are good, but those on 
 Sniper Elite are better. 
  
  The game has it's moments, team orders are fun, and you can wipe out almost everyone with them, 
 specially with the bazooka team. Looks great when you destroy a building or a tower and everything 
 sets on fire. Tactical map is not great, but isn't bad either.
  
  The story is good, but the bad acting and the lack of humanity by the characters (they look almost 
 like dead puppets) can't inspire you or get you in action.
  
  One thing I still can't understand is why your team never dies when they get shot, only gets wounded 
 and heals at the next checkpoint. Please!!! is a war game... if somebody gets shot, he dies!!!
 
  
  When you start playing it, you'll say, "lets give it a chance", but it gets repetitive and boring.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squiggle_UK
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Have to say I'm a little disappointed with BIA HH.
  
  Firstly, it is has a very 'consoley' feel about it. If you're an avid PC gamer this might bother 
 you. Gearbox/UBI have not used the advantages that a mid to high end PC has over any console. Don't 
 get me wrong, I have an XBox 360 and enjoy using it but HH feels pretty unpolished on the PC compared 
 to Earned In Blood or even Road to Hill 30. 
  
  I found ordering my squads to move and using the cover system pretty frustrating at times. The 
 whole system seems 'glitchy' to me, something I don't remember in the previous BIA offerings. Also, 
 trying to throw/aim a grenade in HH is pretty much down to luck as the aiming/throwing system just 
 outright sucks.
  
  This brings me to 'Realism', something that Gearbox have been blowing their trumpets about from 
 the beginning. Sorry, but taking out 8 of the dreaded 88mm AA/AT guns in my tank without one of 
 them even firing back at me had me thinking I was playing a pretty dull arcade game (Veteran difficulty) . 
 This part of the game killed a lot of the 'immersion' I had found in some of the very good firefights, 
 and wasn't the only example of a lack of realism, something that Gearbox have touted as a strongpoint 
 within HH.
  
  I'm not a fan of long cut scenes within a game but if the story and acting is interesting and adds 
 to the game then I'm ok with it. The story line in HH isn't particularly riveting in my opinion 
 and they should have used the time spent on the 'movie' improving and ironing out the problems 
 that there are within the actual game. There are a lot of cut scenes... too many for me anyway, 
 and they often cropped up and served to kill some of the better moments of the game.
  
  Other points...
  
  I have good eyesight but the field of view (I'm playing in 1680X1050) seems 
 really 'funneled' to me.
  
  Erratic frame rates - I have a good system but frame rates vary from the low 30's up to over 100 
 FPS sometimes within the same mission. I expect some variation but the difference here seems a 
 bit extreme to me.
  
  Spamming enemies!! Yep they are here! The Sniping section in the game is the same section repeated 
 three times over.
  
  Where is the Skirmish mode? In my opinion one of the strongest parts of the previous game has been 
 left out.
  
  I can't comment on Multiplayer as I haven't tried it.
  
  We've had to wait a long time for HH, I just think we've been short changed here. You may wonder 
 why I've given HH a 7/10 after all these moans. Well, the one saving grace for me is that I had 
 fun (that's what it's all about after all) with quite a few of the intense firefights in the game. 
 AI seemed very good at times and incredibly stupid at others. The graphics can be very pretty sometimes 
 but at others pretty ugly, there are problems with 'clipping'. Sounds in general are very good. 
 The 'Gore Cam' is pretty cool if you like that sort of thing.
  
  To sum up:- There are some nice ideas and touches in HH that haven't featured in the previous games 
 but IMO they are poorly implemented. HH on the PC feels a bit 'unfinished' to me which is odd because 
 the amount of times the release was put back should have given Gearbox plenty of time to add some 
 polish.
  
  I'm not sure if I'll want to play through again on 'Authentic' mode if I have to endure the lengthy 
 cut-scenes again. Maybe they can be disabled or skipped but as yet I, m not sure. You certainly 
 can't skip them when playing on the Veteran difficulty.
  
  If you liked the previous BIA games then it is worth giving HH a try. It depends whether you believe 
 the things I've mentioned above will bother you or not. I've looked forward to the release of HH 
 for years but If I'd had the benefit of a demo to help the buying decision then I think I'd have 
 left this one on the shelf.
  
  I've reduced my final score to 5 because I'm one of the ATI graphics card owners who is unable 
 to complete the game as the 'Black Friday' level has serious issues with some ATI cards (apparently 
 the rain effect on this level causes crashes for many ATI owners) . What is even more annoying is 
 that the developers don't seem to be in any rush to release a patch for this and the other problems 
 with the game. Not good enough Gearbox/UBI. My last purchase in this series.
  
  Have fun,
  
  Squiggle UK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John_Kelly
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 7:07 pm PT
Review:  The game has its moments. However, a number of things that I liked about the previous installments 
 are missing. There is no button to tell your men to take cover, and they don't seem to understand 
 that by themselves. It is also very hard to strategically place your men. I've always wished it 
 could be done on the map, sort of like Rainbow Six, only on the fly.
  
  With all of the attention to historical detail, there are a few items that seem to have been missed. 
 The side skirts on the Pz IV were designed to defeat HEAT munitions, yet in the game that is where 
 the player is directed to fire the bazooka. When Baker holds the MG42, the annimation model uses 
 an over the top grip with the left hand. That is a modern grip for modern SAWs. The Germans taught 
 their soldiers to place the left hand underneath to support the bottom of the stock. It's a minor 
 issue, but for the money Antell is making to be a consultant, he shouldn't miss it.
  
  Those items aside, the game still channels the player through a stupid gauntlet, and it is not 
 possible to step out of even the slightest depression. 
  
  Finally, if this is such a simulation of WWII, why can't the player go prone? I have not tried 
 the MP yet, but that was what I really liked about "Earned in Blood." From what I've heard, this 
 one falls far short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Hell's Highway is a game about the 101st airborne soldiers in Operation Market Garden. As with 
 the previous two games Road to Hill 30 and Earned in Blood you command your squad (s) to positions, 
 tell them to attack the enemy or cover for you as you flank.
  
  Flanking by the way is the game strategy and how you will play. 
  
  Hell's Highway is to me 
 the best in the series and here's why. They have added a cover system where if you get behind cover 
 you can press "Q" by default to view your suroundings. Depending on your position you can lean 
 over short walls or lean around them and get off shots at enemy forward positions. This makes the 
 game play much more playable and smoother as one can take their time and make accurate head shots. 
 
  
  As with the previous two games there is a story which is this series stronge point. You follow 
 Matt Baker and Red as with the previous games into WW II Holland. As far as game stories go Brother 
 and Arms games have some of the most climatic, realistic plots seen to date of any PC game or game 
 in general. The only other game that comes close is Mass Effect but that game seems to be missing 
 the emotional ride this game entails.
  
  There are some things I don't like in the game though. The fact you can't retrace your steps to 
 previous areas in levels seems linear, the difficulty settings are watered down with only the authenic 
 difficulty mode being the only real challenge. If you lose one or more of your men in a previous 
 level objectives they magically reappear in the next objective level. There are problems also with 
 some of the levels load times being too long. 
  
  The graphics and preformance using the Unreal Engine is over the top. You don't need a super fast 
 PC to run this game nor do you need the Microsoft Service Pack 3. I have a really old CPU est: (2003) 
 and it runs great on medium settings. The graphics are detailed for the most part with facial and 
 annimations being the games stronge point. 
  
  The sound is wonderful especially the weapons sounds that make you feel like your actually shooting 
 a M1 Grand or a MP 40. Voice sounds are also great.
  
  Overall, B&A Hell's Highway is one of the most climatic, emotional, tense PC games I have ever 
 played with only Company of Heroes coming close in WWII battlefield action. The game designers 
 - Gear Box have really done a great job and I commend their work on this game. 
  
  If you haven't tryed any of these games now is the time to do so and if you have now is the time 
 to try newest B&A game in the series - Hell's Highway! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyramazed
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  When i first see the screenshots, i said "Maybe this, will be different". But no. If you never played 
 a WWII game before you may enjoy this one. But we played Call of Duty (and waiting for new games 
 under that title) and we exactly know what needs to be done. Like gameplay, graphics, atmosphere or 
 the story. I can't say this game sucks, but it would be better. Eventually we're playing new-gen games 
 in these days. And gamers expect better games. Nowadays, Unreal Engine is being used by games which 
 want to effect you only by graphisc. But for sure, it's not enough. You can't just use an engine that 
 used in a  game if you want to make a WWII game. Anyway, there's something 
 i like in the game : "Cinematics". They are really impressive. It feels like you are playing a movie. But 
 not a great movie, for sure. At the end of the game it says : "To be continued". I hope it will be 
 something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,3197,0. html
  
  The Brothers in Arms series has since distinguished itself from the bulk of WWII based shooters, 
 be they Call of Duty, Medal of Honor, etc. With strong storytelling and cerebral gameplay, even 
 those tired of the genre could find something to like in Gearbox's first original IP. Hell's Highway 
 is no exception to this rule. While multiplayer is but an after-thought in this highly competitive 
 age of online gaming, the single player offers enough fun, immersion, and emotion to satisfy any 
 shooter fan.
  
  BIA: HH's story appropriately involves the failed Operation Market Garden, which Sargeant Baker 
 and his newly-rebuilt squad are thrust into. The narrative doesn't so much focus on actual military 
 actions and manuevers as it does on the interactions between the different squadmates, and this 
 is where the game succeeds in engaging the player where many others have failed. The constant turmoil 
 and stress of losing fellow soldiers adds a lot of personality and emotion to the game's cinematic 
 cutscenes, and offers an emotional experience not unlike that found in Saving Private Ryan and 
 the Band of Brothers TV series. The only problem is that newcomers with the franchise might be 
 slightly disoriented due to the fact that the game builds on the story of characters like Leggett, 
 who died in the previous game, and this removes a certain element of familiarity that Gearbox wanted 
 to provide.
  
  Hell's Highway is definitely a strong game. Throughout the campaign, you take command of varied 
 numbers of airborne squads, each of which has their own purpose. Combat with Germans involves setting 
 up your squads to best supress the enemy, and then flanking to finish them off. Your squadmates 
 are a definite help in these situations, and you'll find yourself carefully positioning them to 
 minimize casualties. As a consequence of the game's strong narrative, you'll feel emotionally motivated 
 to make optimal decisions about combat. Even though "dead" teammates come back at the next checkpoint, 
 it still feels like a personal failure whenever you see one of them go down. Gearbox should be 
 commended for making players actually care about their NPCs.
  
  The game is not entirely focused on squad combat: there are several, short solo sections which 
 demand even more of your sneaking and aiming prowess. These might seem to be strange detours, but 
 they're short and intense enough to offer a little more variety to the combat.
  
  In comparison to previous games in the series, Hell's Highway really ups the viscerality of the 
 battlefield. If you land a difficult shot or catch a squad of Germans with a grenade, the game 
 will often go into a slo-mo view that depicts the disarmament of your foes. It's a little misplaced, 
 but an entertaining function nonetheless.
  
  Brothers in Arms also earns high marks for its production values. From the excellent voice acting 
 to the spectacularly detailed world, Gearbox didn't miss a step. Nearby explosions cause ringing 
 in your "ears" as tables and benches splinter realistically. The amount of detail present in the 
 character models is simply stunning for an Unreal Engine 3-licensed game and the environments don't 
 disappoint either. The only thing that might bug you is the lack of detail on foliage and trees, 
 but the game looks quite solid.
  
  Brothers in Arms' weak link is its' multiplayer mode. Each map supports up to 20 players and has 
 two opposing teams face off in successive capture-the-territory matches. BIA's twist on this classic 
 formula is assigning different roles to each team member, giving them slightly different load-outs. 
 The matches can get pretty tense, but there isn't that much depth or variety to the mode.
  
  Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is Gearbox's finest independent effort to date. With its spectacular 
 campaign and emotional story, it delivers an intense and rewarding experience that will leave you 
 personally invested in the characters you fight alongside with. We only wish other studios could 
 handle this era with this level of maturity and respect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bachilders
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  First off, If you have not played the first two games, I would highly recommend them, you can get 
 them cheaply on steam. The story is very effective at portraying the characters, and your allies 
 seem very real. Being squad leader, you are haunted by the memories off your fallen men. These 
 scenes are very good at making Matt (your character) believable, although they may be confusing 
 if you haven't played the first games.
  This game is a technical masterpiece and has some of the best graphics I have ever seen. Once I 
 edited the .ini and made some driver tweaks, I could run it with aa and more advanced options. 
 With these tweaks, it was probably the best looking game on the pc outside of crysis. (haven't 
 played warhead) It also runs very well on the highest settings (and much higher with tweaks) on 
 my 8800gts, 5600+, 4gb ram at 1680x1050. The sound is excellent such as the weapon sounds and battle 
 chatter, although it is a bit disappointing to see that there aren't many options for things such 
 as eax. (surround sound may be a tweak or it might take your desktop setting, idk)
  The gameplay is similar to the other games. The major differences here are the inclusion of "dig-in", 
 basically like r6: v, but without blindfire, and destructible environments. Only tables and fences 
 are destructible with bullets, with sandbags and some walls being destructible with explosives. 
 It's kind of disappointing to see the physics not used on stone walls, especially when flak 88's 
 are firing at you and you hide behind a metal table or sheet metal. The cover system works fairly 
 well, but you cannot really play effectively with out it, so you can't really play like a normal 
 fps as far as cover goes. You can turn off the crosshair for dig in, so that makes it a bit more 
 difficult. As always, I turned off the crosshair for normal play, but most of the combat is dig-in 
 anyway, so the crosshair just gets in the way.
  I played it on veteran (middle difficulty) , and it provided a challenge, but it wasn't too hard 
 for the most part. I have not tried multiplayer, but that's not why i bought the game, just a bonus. 
 Overall, the technology used is incredibly impressive, especially with tweaks, and the story is 
 phenomenal. The game is also fairly long for a fps. The only thing keeping this from a "10" is 
 the cover system that seems to be pretty much mandatory. I would love to see a mod that changes 
 that in the future. O and you get to use a tank a few times, but these levels are incredibly easy/ 
 arcadey, but fun nonetheless. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hvypetals
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  For a game touted for its gore Ive got mixed reactions. Blast damage is well done but otherwise 
 the battlefield is pretty sterile and clean. No bullet holes in guys you just shot for instance. 
 No spent cartridges laying about the floor, everything is nice and clean.. to clean. You get some 
 blood decals but not spray effects like in rb6. Grenade throws are more like throwing a light stone 
 rather a pound and a half of metal and c4.
  
  Game looks great visually but i come away thinking, yeh yeh big deal everytime.
  
  Also i heard 
 alot about shooting away cover like fences and couches and i haven't seen that unless have the 
 bazooka team do it. All in all a good looking game and very well polished but missing the blood 
 and meaty potatoes that satisfies a hungry gamer like me. None of my guys have been killed yet 
 and germans just walk right up to us - so the ai makes it easy for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bangell99
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  Hell's Highway is the latest installment in the Brothers in Arms series, a series of tactical, 
 squad-based WW2 shooters. While the previous BIA games may not be hugely popular, Hell's Highway 
 should definately be a buy for any FPS gamer.
  In the game, you play as Matt Baker, a veteran from Normandy who has been received the call of 
 duty once more, to join Operation Market Garden, the largest airborne operation in history. It 
 was an attempt to secure a corridor through Holland, to punch through the German lines and take 
 Berlin before Christmas. The plan ultimately failed, however, as crack German troops were in the 
 area to repel the invasion.
  Hell's Highway's story is well told, through a series of cutscenes. Good facial detail and animations 
 allow you to take these cutscenes seriously, like a war movie, and immerse yourself in the story. 
 There are several distinctive characters, including Mike, a nosy Englishman, Frankie, a young lad 
 eager to prove himself, and Zanovich - a veteran who has a strong sense of humour, even when it's 
 uncalled for.
  The story revolves around the rivalries and friendships of the soldiers, and Mike's determination 
 to discover Baker's dark secret. The game opens with a long cutscene, with an impressive continual 
 shot that shows the relationships of the soldiers around an outpost. The game actually ends with 
 "To be continued...", as the story is incomplete. (I, for one, cannot wait for the sequel.) Hell's 
 Highway has the best story I have seen in an FPS; it's not just about Captain Awesome and his army 
 of indestructible macho-retards.
  The gameplay is all about using your squads. That's not to say you are unimportant - your squads 
 are really there to support you. Unlike a game like COD, you're not a killing machine - suppressing 
 and flanking are the only real way to defeat the enemy.
  Gameplay is centered around "the four F's". These are find him, fix him, flank him and finish him. 
 High points like towers will allow you to survey the battlefield before entering a firefight, allowing 
 you to locate the enemy and plan ahead. Enemy and allied postions are marked on a tactical map.
 
  It's easy to move your squads into position. Once in position, they'll open fire and suppress 
 the enemy, but you can order them to intensify their fire on a specific target if you wish. You'll 
 usually have 2 squads at a time (3, in some instances) . These can be a Base of Fire team - armed 
 with long range weapon to suppress the enemy from afar. There is also a bazooka team, which can 
 destory heavy cover and entrenched MGs. Alternatively, you can use the MG team, ideal for pinning 
 the enemy down. Lastly, there is the Assualt team, which carries SMGs and grenades for flanking 
 manouvres and short-range encounters. 
  Commanding your squads is easy. There are 3 orders you can give a squad - fall in, move, and suppress. 
 If your squad is close enough to an enemy, they'll assault them with grenades. Giving orders is 
 simple, and the control scheme is good. (I remapped my controls, but the general system works well.) 
 You'll get used to it very quickly.
  Enemies are difficult to hit while they're in cover, so you'll have to go around to kill them effectively. 
 This is usually best done on your own, though your squads can perform this job, too. It's best 
 to keep someone back to keep the enemy suppressed, lest they simply turn around to face their flanking 
 assailants. 
  Finishing an enemy is easy - a long burst of SMG fire can cut through unprotected enemies. Alternatively, 
 you could use grenades, which are very powerful, especially since the AI rarely moves when a grenade 
 lands by their feet. The grenade reticule is really helpful when throwing grenades, allowing you 
 to lob them exactly where you want. However, it sometimes glitches, and your grenade will bounce 
 off the object you're taking cover behind, and kill you.
  The cover system is brilliant, and I beleive every shooter should have one. You simply press a 
 button to enter cover, and you can then peek around or over the object to shoot at your enemies. 
 It works much like R6V2's, if you've played that. It's easy to use, and so long as the enemy aren't 
 on your flank or rear, they can't hit you while hiding behind cover. You can use most objects for 
 cover, including hay bales, trucks, and fences. However, wooden cover like fences and tables can 
 be torn apart, especially by MGs and other high-calibre weapons. Bazookas can take down sandbags 
 and other, heavier cover, though most brick cover objects will not be affected by any munitions.
 
  You won't encounter any funky new weapons that aren't in every other WW2 shooter, but there are 
 tanks. There are a few tank-driving sections, and while these don't provide a tactical challenge 
 like the infantry sections, they are very fun. The destructabilty means that it's great to drive 
 around blowing things up and mowing down fleeing infantry with your machine gun. Your main gun 
 can take out enemy tanks, artillery positions, entrenched MGs and train carriages. The tank itself 
 is a weapon, allowing you to crush sandbags as well as helpless Nazis, who get squashed under your 
 treads with a sickening crunch. 
  The game also has a sniping section in an attempt to deviate from the normal gameplay. This, and 
 the tank sections, do well to break up the game and stop it from being repetitive. 
  There are occasional solo sections, and these take place in more restricted environments like houses, 
 with smaller firefights. Seeing as it's hard to flank without someone else to suppress the enemy, 
 accurate shooting and grenades are the best options in these sections. These parts are fun, but 
 they do seem slightly out-of-place in a game that is centered around squad-based combat. 
  Hell's Highway's graphics aren't amazing, when compared to other modern titles like Crysis and 
 Far Cry 2. That said, they do look good, with facial details and environments looking nice. Some 
 of the textures are excellent, like chapped bricks in a wall, while others are disappointing, like 
 the grass in a field. 
  One visual aspect you will be in awe of, however, is the gore. It's not over-done; the gore is 
 at a realistic level, and it looks sublime. Limbs fly, legs get seperated from torsos, and chunks 
 of flesh fly from people's faces. There's a lot of blood. Whatsmore, whenever you score a really 
 good headshot or grenade kill, the action will slow down, and the camera will zoom in, to provide 
 you with a slow-mo shot of the soldier's gory death, whether this be flying through the air with 
 blood pouring from his severed leg, or jerking backwards with blood spurting from his forehead, 
 where your bullet has entered. The action camera doesn't actually kick in very often, and doesn't 
 interfere with the gameplay. 
  The level design is consistentley good, and the game does well to disguise its lineality; often, 
 there is only one flanking route, and only a couple of decent cover spots. The environments seem 
 a lot bigger than they really are. The game has an authentic feel, where-ever you're fighting. 
 These locations include fields, factories, and houses. There's not a great variety in the layout 
 of these locations, but the change in visual style adds variety.
  The sound is brilliant. Effects sound good in general, though some of the rifles sound a bit pathetic. 
 The voice-acting is superb, both in the cutscenes and during the action, where you'll bark orders 
 to your squads, and they'll also give you advice and acknowledgements.
  The AI isn't anything special, namely because it doesn't really do much; all it's required to do 
 is camp and perform scripted events. During firefights, you'll usually take out a group of enemies, 
 and then their reinforcements will arrive. This means that you don't get overwhelmed, though it 
 does seem odd. The AI doesn't glitch often, but they will be irresponsive to grenades (they can't 
 even use grenades themselves) , and when you flank them, they'll usually stand up and stare blankly 
 at you, while you easily pick them off, or your squad blast them. 
  Friendly AI does what its meant to 99% of the time; obeying your orders without glitching. However, 
 you cannot always trust your men to find a safe route to a location, and sometimes they simply 
 refuse to move or fire. However, they find their own cover well enough, and won't get themselves 
 killed. Infact, the only way your squads will die is if you order them to move when it's unsafe.
 
  The game doesn't have much replay value; once you've finished the campaign, there's nothing left 
 to do other than the poor multiplayer. However, completing the campaign (which is a good length 
 - 10-15 hours) unlocks an additional difficulty level which removes the HUD, crosshair and other 
 things to make the game alot harder.
  All in all, Hell's Highway is an amazing game. Even if you're not a fan of tactical FPSs, you'll 
 be impressed with this game. It's easy to pick up, and the squad controls aren't complicated, like 
 some other tactial shooters. If you're looking for a great single-player game with a good story, 
 Hell's Highway is a must-buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkerswill
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  The story line of this game picks up form the previous 2 games and consolidates them into this 
 game. It uses the combined effect of video footage to tell the story, as if it were a movie and 
 the game play. The graphics is a great leap forward from the previous games, which were let down 
 by there graphic. While not the best I have seen they're still pretty good. The game play is nearly 
 first rate, as it would have been nice to seperate the jump key and the climb over key. Controlling 
 the individual units in the heat of battle, is made a little testing by the use of one key for 
 more than one function, depending upon where the aim rectule is pointed 
  The use of different cover providing different protection is a leap forward in reality and now 
 when you aim at a target you can actually hit it.
  
  I look forward to the next game in the series and am hoping it will not take a year or more to 
 get here.
  
  If the developer could look at the call of duty series and combine some of the gaming elements. 
 This would make for a super 4th module 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I'm not exactly a huge fan of Brothers in Arms. I've played all the other games and all of them 
 seemed a little... mediocre to me, I got this hoping that it would actually make the series that 
 much better but I was mistaken, at least upon a few aspects. Don't get me wrong, this new installment 
 is definetly the best one out of the whole bunch but still, i think it's a long ways from overall 
 amazing.
  
  So a problem that i found with the whole series.... most of it is BORING. I don't get it, I don't 
 know why, but when i play this game i just dont get involved in it, at least during the random 
 flanking manuevers yours supposed to do with your team, and the same happens when i play the older 
 ones. The game just tries TOO hard or doesn't try ENOUGH on those little aspects that make a game 
 about ww2 and warfare in general just so fun. I mean, for me, the call of duty series eats Brothers 
 in Arms from breakfast. There's just no comparison. Sure BIA has tactical approach while COD doesn't, 
 but do you really need to waste time pinning down someone so you can go around them and get them 
 when its so easy to just shoot them in the face a mile away as soon as they peak? The tactical 
 aspect is there but its just not implemented right. It sure is cool and an awesome thing to have 
 but i just really dont use it as much as i think i should.
  One cool thing to note though is that they implemented some really NICE levels where you're actually 
 alone, and by alone i mean without a team. Im just craving some more of those. I thought the hospital 
 scene was ridiculuosly well done and felt like an entirely different game. Also the tank part was 
 a really nice feature and I defenetly would love to see more of that.
  
  On the bad side, whats the point of your teammates getting shot in the face, lieing down like they 
 have stomach pains, leaving them there, and then having them with you again 2 miles down the road 
 in a cutscene and in a squad again? Wouldn't it be better to have some sort of medic or medpack 
 revival system so you can heal them like rainbow six vegas or something? Instead of leaving them 
 there? It just really cuts down on the realism aspect for me. Its like you're watching an episode 
 of Band of Brothers and you see one of the guys get shot in the brains just for them to be in the 
 next episode. What bull is that?
  
  One more thing. Awesome job with the textures, voiceovers and such, but PLEASE make the characters 
 have more than one facial expression! When you watch the cutscenes and people are yelling, screaming 
 and laughing, it just seems like you're headphones are set on a different movie or something. Even 
 when you blow a bunch of germans up and the cam goes in slow mode, they all have the same serious 
 look on their face as they fly around without limbs, its pretty dumb. It seems they noticed that 
 half-way through the game and there its not nearly as bad.
  
  So overall i don't know. Maybe I'm just picky when its up to games nowadays, maybe i just never 
 really liked BIA. The game is really awesome when you get to parts that are scary and or have more 
 involvement other than just flanking people. Like the tank scene and the part where you need to 
 conserve ammo. I guess if you enjoyed the other installments you'll get a kick out of this one, 
 personally, its not exactly AS amazing as they say, but has some pros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 856891
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 11, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  well I got to be honest with yall I thought with the past success of the earlier games in the series 
 that BIAHH would of been better. First let me start with the graphics I got to admit some of the 
 weapons especially the BAR look like something out of medal of honor Pacific assault a game that 
 came out in 2004/05 and the facial graphics look very ''watered down'' the whole game looks watered 
 down to me. I mean the past games were knownn for their great graphics and inovative squad commands 
 I just thought the graphics would of been better. and the supposdly ''destructive enviorments'' 
 thats a load of horse **** if you ask me then only thing in the enviroment that I got to destroy 
 is fences and windows only if they had MGs in them and I mean only if they had MGs in them trust 
 me on this I tried I even picked up a bazooka and shot the window next to the one that my bazooka 
 team just destroyed and blah nothing... hell I even got in a tank and tried to blow some holes 
 in a house again nothin... so yeah thanks gearbox because shooting down fences is SO MUCH FUN.... 
 and the whole ''bringing war into the game'' the whole psychological thing is SO BORING I mean 
 in all honesty if they put as much time into juicing up the graphics and destructable enviroments 
 as they did with the ''psychological'' part of the game then hell we would of had something to 
 work with. to be honest I really hate the whole baker talking to himself and crying and **** for 
 like the WHOLE damn game. jesus christ I thought I was watching a SOAP Operah. I mean dont get 
 me wrong in real war that probley does happen and guys do loose it in war and everything but ITS 
 A GAME I dont want to hear about how Matt Baker is off in the woods talking TO Himself . damn thats 
 the reason why the freaking game is so damn short because HALF the time hes crying and talking 
 to himself. look I just want a game where I can blow people up and shoot people nothing more nothin 
 less I dont care about the pyschological part let HOLLYWOOD do that you GUYS do the shooting part. 
 Now look I dont really hate the 3rd person cover system and i dont really love it either. it seems 
 kind of rushed and just thrown in there. I mean whats wrong with just the normal crouch and peak 
 moves??? to me it just seemed that they just threw part of gears of war in there for some reason... 
 and whats uop with the 2D FLOWERS and NO AA option what so ever??? now off to the good parts of 
 the game yes there are some lol. great voice acting as usual :D inovative easy to use squad commands 
 that respond to your every beck and call just like in the previous games of course. your squad 
 is smart they know when to keep quiet and know when to shout and scream and shoot. the germans 
 are some what smart they didnt seem to realize that I was feet away and to their left flank until 
 I started shooting them but all in all the AI is decent. Historially correct as are the previous 
 games with real cities and towns and streets and roads. I got to admit it was cool to see Captain 
 dale dye in the game reminded me of the band of brothers movies which they are trying to copy but 
 hey who isnt??? all in all if you played the previous games then you have to rent this and play 
 it especially if you want to continue the story of MATT baker and his squad. but if you have never 
 played the previous games then dont even look at this because your 50 bucks can be better spent. 
 BIAHH has good potential just not executed well and feels more like a soap opera than a ww2 shooter 
 it also looks watered down but has great squad commands and voice acting. I didnt even bother with 
 the multiplayer so because I didnt play the multiplayer I give this game a solid 7. the game also 
 has incredibly Great weapon sounds I mean it sounds just like they do in real life. so thats my 
 review for the BIAHH dont let my review get you down do as you wish and go play the game and have 
 fun with it :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kris_18
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  i have to say i was expecting something more. the game is kind of boring there isn't to much going 
 on during all the game. u might get the sensation that something big might come from a moment to 
 another and its still the begging but nothing comes. the other two BIA were much more challenging 
 and the germans were much more hard hitting, in this one during all the game the Germans are in 
 defensive position except some counterattacks. the graphics and sound are beautiful and the special 
 effect are good to, but that's it. I have to say BIAHW is not even close to COD4. the destructible 
 environment is not that destructible, all you can destroy are woods and sandbags, u can make holes 
 in buildings only when there are MG's in them. If you shot a wall with a tank nothing is going 
 to happen, so its not that impressive. Overall I think this game has great potential but is not 
 going to leave a mark in the world WW2 FPS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phil16-psp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  I was going into Hell highway expecting a lack luster WW2 game, but what I got was a truly amazing 
 gaming experience which grips you and wont let go for the whole duration.
  Firstly game play, as we all know BIH is a tactical squad shooter which incorporates an extensive 
 cover system along with a "suppress" and "flank" game play objective. This stays the same throughout 
 the game and it works brilliantly I truly enjoyed the change of pace from the Rambo style were 
 all used too, it gave a far more realistic view of warfare which still lends itself to intense 
 action.
  At any time you will be controlling up too 3 squads (assault/base of fire/mg) , but thanks to a 
 great control scheme you never get bogged down along with a great camera control, issuing commands 
 couldn't be easier. But there were some extremely rare cases of soldiers jumping to the wrong side 
 of cover.
  Hells Highway visually is pretty impressive, with some of the highest detail I have seen in character 
 models but it lacks this in other areas more noticeably on the terrain. But it is a minor flaw, 
 in other wise a great looking game. Also the sound doesn't disappoint, with thundering scores and 
 amazing voice acting on par with big budget movies help to engage you into the story which plays 
 a big part in Hells Highway.
  The story in HH, is truly its shining feature with a complex and gritty storyline which rivals 
 the likes of "saving private Ryann". It was engaging from start to finish, the cut scenes where 
 brilliantly directed and gave the game a very cinematic feel, I became engrossed in the story of 
 SGT. baker and his squad watching how grounded and real they behaved all showing individual emotion 
 and not just the lifeless drones we usually see in today's games. But honestly it needs to be experienced, 
 to even understand.
  Now while the single player was an epic journey, the multilayer was great letdown having extremely 
 reduced graphical ability and basic game play it just cant compete with other current multi player 
 games honestly it felt like a rushed out add on which belongs in the 90's.
  But overall Hells Highway was a truly stunning gaming experience with a story that kept me interested 
 and game play that was fresh and intense, I would recommend this to anyone who loves a good story 
 or who enjoys tactical shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhade5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I think it's the most sentimental (touchy if i can say that) game i had ever played... the story 
 is... without words... very good.. i hope that Gear Box and Ubisoft will make not one more Brothers 
 in Arms but many.
  But i have two complains... i don't like that you can't jump when you want and that you can't use 
 melle (bash) attacks.
  Everything is good... except for some minor bugs that all games have.
  I'm sorry about Red and the other guy... Franky.
  Oh... the idea of Baker seeing ghosts is interesting 
 and spooky (the french boy ) .
  Also the bazooka team rocks... there are many times when bazooka is essential. And the MG team is 
 good too. I haven't managed to give assault orders so far on the enemy like you do in BIA: RTH30 
 and BIA: EIB.
  I think people should make games about world war I as well, maybe gearbox will try to make one because 
 they are a good team and they have good historians. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epic_Oatmeal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 7:06 am PT
Review:  The Brothers in Arms series has been known for its uniquely tactical approach to the WWII shooter 
 genre, as well as its character-driven storyline. The third installment, Hell's Highway, ups the 
 ante with a new cinematic scope and impressive visuals, and spices up the gameplay with a handful 
 of new features to make the experience feel fresh.
  
  You once again play the role of SSgt. Matt Baker of the 101st Airborne. Having survived the invasion 
 of Normandy you are now taking part in Operation Market Garden, in which Allied forces are attempting 
 to secure a bridge across the Rhine River to allow convoys of men and equipment to move into Germany. 
 While a knowledge of events from the first game will help you to understand the story better, you're 
 still given plenty of flashbacks and guidance in the many cutscenes throughout the campaign as 
 Baker fights an unnerving battle within himself, as well as fights to keep the men under his command 
 alive. It's a moving story that goes beyond the typical "complete objective, win war" routine of 
 other war games.
  
  Gearbox was smart to take the "don't fix what isn't broken" route with the gameplay. 90% of the 
 time you are in command of multiple squads, each one you have to command separately with movement 
 and covering fire orders. They can consist of an assault team, base-of-fire team, and the new specialty 
 machine gun and bazooka teams. The trick is to use each teams' strengths to suppress the enemy 
 and attack them from their flank while they're in cover. Situational awareness is the name of the 
 game, and the implementation of a cover-system for the player and a "danger" system (basically 
 a regenerating health bar) are new and welcome additions to the formula, too. While you repeat 
 this process in every single fight throughout the entire game, it doesn't get old too quickly thanks 
 to your equally competent Nazi opponents. You'll go up against machine gun emplacements, bazooka 
 teams, and snipers, as well as tanks and 88mm flak cannons in varied locations and combat situations. 
 However, there's little reason to go back and play through the campaign again, because battles 
 always pan out the same way every time. There's always a single, obvious solution to every battle 
 that doesn't give you any room or incentive to experiment much, which hurts the replay value.
 
  
  The graphics certainly impress with realistic and detailed environments, excellent lighting, and 
 very sharp textures. The character modeling is equally good, and while the facial animation occasionally 
 appears stiff during cutscenes, it still manages to convey a strong sense of emotion thanks to 
 well-written dialogue and good voice acting. The wet texturing and rainy weather effects are some 
 of the best I've ever seen, too. The sound design is fantastic. Voice acting is believable and 
 full of character, and the sound of gunfire and explosions is hard to beat. The familiar orchestral 
 scores help to immerse you into the movie-like experience during cutscenes and intense combat, 
 and hammers in my point about the game being reminiscent of the Band of Brothers television series.
 
  
  Fans of the series will not be disappointed with Hell's Highway, but I was surprised by the little 
 amount of replay value it has. The campaign doesn't overstay its welcome, and it fleshes out the 
 improved tactical combat mechanics as much as it can and should, but there's something about the 
 game that didn't make me go back and play through most of the missions again like the previous 
 games did. There's no question that Hell's Highway is a consistent and enjoyable game and a worthy 
 addition to the franchise, though, so there's no reason for concern about this small quip of mine. 
 Those that are not familiar with the Brothers in Arms franchise can still easily jump into this 
 game and have a great time, because it's very accessible and intuitive to get to grips with. As 
 I'm sure a lot of other people are, I'm eagerly looking forward to the next installment that will 
 no doubt take place during the Battle of the Bulge, as the ending of the game hinted towards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjokolata
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  Every encounter with the enemy counts in this game, it just never gets boring. Together with the 
 brilliant cutscenes and storytelling, very realistic graphics and sound wich suck you into the 
 battle, bugfree and polished feel and historical background this makes up for an instant classic.
 
  If you like shooters, this is a must-buy. Don't expect a plain shoot em all-game though, as you'll 
 have to use your squads to pin the German enemy down and then flank them to finish them off. The 
 way you order your squads is intuitive and never gets in the way of the realistic feel the shouts 
 and answers of your men give you.
  The only thing I miss is an addictive multiplayer mode, but I bought this game for the singleplayer 
 campaign and since that campaign is so brilliant, I'll gladly give this game a score of nine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kzoneoo1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent game and the graphics are fantastic, don't listen to anybody who says the 
 graphics suck because obviously they are blind or their computer is so crappy it won't run it. 
 Catchies is a prime example of a review you should ignore. Getting tired of people trying to cram 
 their opinion down your throat because they upset because of something that has absolutly nothing 
 to do with the game. People demand that the new gender of games run on anything but have fallen 
 so far behind in the technology that they are stunned when they can't play. If you can't afford 
 a new computer or you barely pass the specs, don't complain, just don't buy the game. Game play 
 is fluid, scenery is exceptional, missions are fun. Only problem I have seen so far is that the 
 squads get dumbed up sometimes and the enemy gets even dumber but its not the norm. If you have 
 a good rig, buy it, if you don't, forget it, it is just going to make you whine on the forums and 
 give it an unjust score... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joyyy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Well i just got the game today, and it was pretty good, but i first noticed it doesnt have motion 
 blur like in the consoles, and you really can't adjust the effects like bloom, depth of field, etc, just 
 shadows and textures. the Singleplayer campaign is great, the cutscenes are really fun and real. the 
 graphics are really good, but i hated that it didint have motion blur.
  Multiplayer is somehow fun, but really needs more game modes and patches, and i hate the MP health 
 system, why didint they make the health like in SP?
  Audio is great too, good voice acting. Gameplay rocks. but i thought the gun recoil was too high on 
 sub-machine guns. And theres no blind fire while in cover. But it still ends really fun and worth 
 playing a LOT.
  So im saying MP needs to be patched.
  
  Final word: The game is great and i recommend it if you want a real WWII game and with a cover 
 system, etc. its worth buying for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zourlos
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  9.0 Presentation
  This game is as good as many war movies, and is a great story for fans of the franchise and newcomers 
 alike. This is a compelling story.
  
  7.9 Graphics - Not excellent but nice. it's worth it to take your time and enjoy the scenes
  
 
  7.9 Sound is good
  
  8.0 Gameplay Commanding your troops are extremely easy to do, and for the most part, they do their 
 job well. However, it's the moments when the AI on both sides break down.
  
  8.0 Lasting Appeal - If you like WWII this is fun - worth to buy for the sigleplayer - the multiplayer 
 sucks!
  
  The Airborne soldiers that fought and lived through the horrors of World War II, and particularly 
 that Operation Market Garden deserve respect, honor, and tales that highlight their sacrifices 
 on the field of battle (as all soldiers do) . Brothers In Arms: Hell's Highway does an excellent 
 job of presenting the story of these men, and is as compelling as many war movies. While many of 
 the franchise's traditional gameplay elements return, such as the tactical controls of squads, 
 so do the issues associated with those controls. While the visuals are better, it still has a number 
 of AI issues, making a title that's good, and even better than its console brethren, but not great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivandonvito
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  Very good game-wasn't heavy for my PC, a lot of new stuff, amazing graphics, the story is addictive, amazing 
 cut scenes, a lot of small details which were perfect (the rain in one of the chapters -it was awesome) , the 
 cover system was innovative and clever. You can feel the hard work of the developers.
  
  The bad-too short (2 years developing and i finished it for about 10 hours) , i didn't know what to 
 think about the missions with the tank (there was no challenge) , many cut scenes (i want to play, not 
 to watch) , the multiplayer is nothing special (not bad, not good) , TOO GODDAMN SHORT.
  
  
  This is the best WW2 game i've ever played. But i expected much more according to all of the videos 
 i watched. It's was too short, shorter than the previously Brothers in Arms. The story blinded me, i 
 was playing only to see the end ,so i guess playing the game for second time won't be so interesting. 
 The game is the best WW2 GAME ever!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickenhide
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I'm a FPS legend, I'm gonna say that at the start, and I'm really picky about FPS games. I've played 
 all the Counterstrikes, a CoD fan from the start, you name it - console and PC.. But not once have 
 I seen a better game than this.
  
  I've never played a squad based shooter, other than Tactical Strike which I disliked, and this 
 is just excellent. At least the squad isn't completely stupid. Ubisoft creator another phenomenon 
 with this one. Your squad is just as powerful as you are and completely intelligent. Not to the 
 point where the game is a complete breeze, though.
  
  I've only written reviews about the best games I've played. Usually, these games are the more challenging 
 ones like Portal. This game is very strategical and requires you to think about your action. You 
 can have your squad suppress fire on an enemy from the front while you sneak around to their back, 
 hitting them from surprise.
  
  The sound effects just blow me away. None of the guns sound the same, making them unique in ways 
 more than just that and explosions are amazing.
  
  Graphics. Two words. Holy ****
  This seems to be just as good as Crysis, except it doesn't choke the hell out of my 8600GT. Excellent 
 graphics, sharp everywhere.
  
  Storyline? Well if you've been with BIA for a while now, you can just skip this. The BIA storyline 
 is better than ice cream. WAAY better than ice cream. I cried at the end of Earned in Blood, and 
 seeing as how I haven't finished hells highway yet but I already like it, the story is better than 
 every aspect in the game.
  
  Overall, the game is just amazing. Instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exeron
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  So i'm lucky enough to get the game on the October 6th, i run home, put the cd in my computer. 
 I'm forced to wait like 20 minutes for the installation to complete. But then we're off...
  
  The game Begins with some flashbacks from two earlier games (you thought you heard "I never 
 asked to be squad leader for the last time, ey?")
  
  The game begins in the middle of the story (another flashback) which you have to play through. 
 You'll get to know the controls and other necessary stuff. When you're through with that level 
 the game actually begins. 
  
  By two years of waiting i've gotten to know the game by looking at pictures and developers videos. 
 I must say the game looked very different, at least from the videos that i've seen. For Example; 
 You're suppose to run into civilians once in a while... well you do, but they only appear in cut 
 scenes... you never actually get to face one.
  
  Other than that, the game is almost everything you'd expect. Non-stop action, kick-ass sounds (Oh, 
 believe me, the sounds are awesome.) 
  
  But sometimes i get the feeling that i'm playing a lousy movie-game. The graphics doesn't look 
 that impressive at certain points, and playing through some levels i feel like i'm walking through 
 a hallway. Also the voice acting could be better...
  
  Then again Brothers In Arms: Hell's Highway actually "Grows on you", and you'll forget the flaws... because 
 the game is anything but flawless. 
  
  Many players have claimed that the story is very hard to follow. Well, since the story jumps back 
 and forward in time i guess i could agree on that point. 
  
  The multiplayer part is basically based on the good ol' CTF game mode. But unfortunateley that's 
 the only game mode. I guess they got rid of the one they used in the two earlier games. I clearly 
 remember the developer saying "Forget everything you know about multiplayer in the early Brothers 
 In Arms games, we're taking this to a whole new level" or something like that. Am I the only one 
 who expected nothing less but a Co-op mode? I mean that would be perfect for these kinds of games, 
 setting up tactics, controlling different squads. It's practically built for it!
  
  Brothers In Arms: Hell's Highway, is a game for any FPS fan. The game doesn't take to long to complete 
 and you might not feel 100% satisfied, although as mentioned "It grows on you"
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaDaStar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  The Metacritic score for this game seems to favour the PC version. If it were possible, I'd rate 
 this game just slightly higher than the 85 rating, but it's not quite worthy of a hard 9. That 
 being said, it is a very good game. From the opening "Previously on Brothers In Arms" sequence 
 to the point I've reached in the game, you feel like you're part of HBOs Band of Brothers.
  
  I don't understand why everyone has so many questions about the graphics. They're based on 
 the Unreal 3 engine. They're fine, but no big DX10 features and the tweakable settings are very 
 minimal. The engine gets the job done without taxing your system. 
  
  You get a true feeling of being in a squad as opposed to the lone gunman in so many FPS. Even the 
 Call of Duty series doesn't bring the feeling that you're fighting with a team the way this game 
 does.
  
  One thing that really looks cool in BIAHH, is the occasional slow mo cam after you accomplish a 
 particularly good shot. I almost feel guilty that I get such a sense of satisfaction when I see 
 it. Which brings me to my last point; this title really puts a true spin on war. Not just the WWII 
 time frame, but war in general. It ain't pretty! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catchies
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of shooters; that said COD4 is the best game ever. While I wait for the fifth one 
 to come out, I picked this baby up.
  I get home install it... computer locks up... install it again... computer locks up. The third time 
 works; but the freezes and crashes don't stop there. I played for an hour then the coputer shuts 
 down... I played for another hour, computer shuts down. I played for another couple of minutes, 
 you guessed it.. IT SHUTS DOWN AGAIN!.. I have never experienced this with any other game, but wow 
 is that frustrating. 
  
  From the game time I did get in my review is this...
  The beginning animation seems almost pointless. It doesn't pull you into the game, it just seems 
 like fluff. the story telling is like World in Conflict, but worse.
  
  The game play seems really slow going, and the character movement seems sluggish and awkward. It 
 is all duck and cover; pow pow duck pow pow. When you die it's like eh, oh well. Games like Bioshock, 
 Crysis, Assasin's Creed, get the blood flowing, and when you die you can't wait to get back in 
 the fight. The bottom line is if you played the others in this series you probably already know 
 what you are getting into; But if you are new you may want to choose something else.
  
  I used to judge how good a game will be by it's price, not anymore. This game retails for $49, 
 I'd wait for it to drop to $20 before buying it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryPalms
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep it short and on point:
  
  This game simply doesn't raise the bar, it takes it down and plants it firmly in the pantheon of 
 games as a yard stick that everything in genre has to be measured by.
  
  In terms of story-telling, game play and production value I am hard pressed to remember anything 
 that rivals.
  
  The boys and girls at GearBox have worked very hard researching, working with wwii veterans and 
 even have a full-fledged Colonel (ret.) , John Antal, on staff to ensure the experience is as close 
 as being there in '44. It seems they have pulled it off as this game is sure to be an instant classic 
 which will go down in game history as a mile stone.
  
  Where other highly trumpeted high-budget games recently have been somewhat disappointing for the 
 more mature market, this game doesn't patronize its users or dumb-down anything but tells you a 
 great story in eye height - and lets it's audience ponder several ethic dilemmas and issues without 
 being patronizing. It would be safe to say that this is more than a mere game; it lives in the 
 gray zones. I'd call it an interactive movie or a First Person War Experience.
  
  Even if you are not into the subject matter or games in particular, BIAHH, I am convinced, will 
 be worth your while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I never really got into the other BIA games. I found them to be boring and not enough to keep me 
 wanting to play. Hells Highway has really surprised me. Sure it isn't perfect with some bugs and 
 glitches but I found myself not wanting to stop playing. At first I thought the graphics were blah 
 but as I got into the game they became spectacular. Some of the scenes get a little long but this 
 is a movie/story ... I felt like I was playing Band of Brothers the mini series.
  
  This will stay on my hard drive awhile.
  
  This game is a great mix of action and tactics but 
 they didn't bog you down with the tactics part in this game so you had more of a chance to play 
 and take in the scenery.
  
  Some people are sick of WWII but I think the genre has alot of loyal followers and many more stories 
 to tell.
  
  Rainbow 6 Vegas cover system with a mix of FPS and action horror games... yes some parts are kind 
 of creepy and make you want to look behind yourself to see whats there. You can play the game in 
 straight up FPS mode or use the Dig In cover system which adds a great deal to the game.
  
  FPS fans give it a try and play more than a half hour before you judge.
  
  The game isn't perfect 
 but it ain't all bad either!
  
  KILLROY WAS HERE!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: npbsurfr
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Alright, so I've been waiting over two years for this. I'll admit it, the game play is incredible 
 in BIA: Hell's Highway. If you're bored of the typical FPS, then this is the game for you. Great 
 performance is rewarded when playing with good tactics. It's a bit more of a thinker than any other 
 FPS I've ever played.
  
  That said and giving my praise for the new Brothers in Arms, I have to tell you about my disappointment. 
 Gearbox really let us down since it took so freakin' long. The graphics were brutally murdered 
 compared to the original videos released to the public. I was really expecting something from these 
 guys. I can only say how disappointed I am by the graphics.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I love the game. Honestly I'm going to give it the number one slot for the 
 year. I'm so sick of FPS where you're acting as Rambo and killing everything in sight. This may 
 not have the flashy graphics and killer effects, but it does have substance.
  
  The movie like qualities are second to amazing with a quasi invigorating experience throughout 
 the entire game. I haven't played the multiplayer yet on the PC; but so far I'm a little disappointed 
 by the old fashioned one man army multiplayer experience from the 360 and PS3. I hope the PC version 
 has fire and assault squads attached to the leader (being you) .
  
  All in all. Great game and a must buy for historic battle game play. I'm all about the WWII experience 
 and this will suck you in. Either when you're mowing down 'crouts' jumping over a wall with a BAR 
 and watching the gore and wonderfully done ragdoll effects to the up-close and brutal head blowing 
 Thompson while rushing an enemy position.
  
  My advice to Gearbox is to work on it, use a better engine in the next line and keep up with the 
 historic realism. My advice to the gamer is to buy this now and enjoy the terrific game play.
 
  
  Peace in the Middle East; Go U. S.!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexandrevitch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  For the genre of the game, it is great, a great work with the story and all details, good graphics, 
 long story, addictive game-play. They toke care of everything. And i like a game that's not all 
 about shooting and it's over very soon, you have a long time to have fun with it. And it's not 
 to "heavy" for your machine. I'm still playing so i do not have a final opinion to report bad things, 
 but a remind to those who don't understand somethings from the game, ex: we can't have a lot of 
 different weapons because there weren't any on those day's. That's one of the things i like it, 
 it's real, no made up story. But in other kind of game it's good, like mass effect. But in general 
 the game stayed loyal to the pattern of the others BIA and as new options, some of them, like commanding 
 your squad are more simplified and more accurate. I did realize that the shooting are better, i 
 mean, when you take a good shoot the focus the part that you hit like the head, and other details 
 that you'll be smart if you BUY the game and enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genious_devil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  BIA Hell highway a must have game overall this take BIA series on very high sky i played both parts 
 and waiting for this one and when i got it i love this third part good thing is that good story 
 and graphics like before but this time much improvements in gameplay hope this will be in top 10 
 games of the year 2008. A must have game atleast for shooting lovers actualy i m waiting for Farcry 
 2 but accidently my brother buy this for me when i see this i think that this will not compete 
 with Farcry 2 but when i install this and play than my view is this game realy compete with Farcry 
 2. Overall a memoriable like before two games of this series and third one is basket of improvements 
 of this series. Recently i played Crysis Warhead and i love that game crytek is going better and 
 better day by day hope they make other great games in future. But i like BIA Hell highway than Crysis 
 Warhead Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great 
 Great Great Great Great Great Game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
