-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bully: Scholarship Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/bullyscholarshipedition/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Detailed world brimming with personality.
 Great script featuring lots of funny dialogue.
 Fantastic voice acting and music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bugs intrude on almost every facet of the game.
 Doesn't look very good and doesn't perform very well.
 An Xbox 360 controller is required if you want to have any fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 31, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.1, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 505 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Rockstar Games
Developer: Rockstar Vancouver
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 21, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A lazy porting job hinders Bully's classic classroom hijinks. 

  PC game enthusiasts know they're in trouble when a game's menus require keyboard input rather than 
 allow you a mouse pointer. That's the first indication, but hardly the last, that this version 
 of Rockstar Games' boisterous look at schoolyard folly is just a quick cash-in. There seems to 
 be little regard for the platform here: The game suffers from numerous bugs and glitches, the keyboard 
 and mouse controls are awkward, and for a game that hardly pushes the capabilities of a halfway 
 decent computer, it performs poorly. It's too bad, because at heart, Bully is one of the better 
 gameplay experiences in recent years, letting you break a drunken schoolteacher out of an asylum, 
 help the lunch lady drug her date, steal panties from the girls' dorm, and take pictures of snotty 
 kids sitting on the lap of a homeless Santa. But with little in the way of meaningful additions 
 and all sorts of platform-specific problems, Bully on the PC just feels rushed.  

           Bully lets you relive your own painful adolescence.      

  Assuming you can look past 
 all the frustrations and don't mind eschewing the keyboard and mouse in favor of an Xbox 360 controller, 
 you'll find an entertaining experience with heavy doses of humor and attitude. As new-kid-on-the-block 
 Jimmy, you find your sneering self dumped at Bullworth Academy, a private school populated by the 
 usual cliques we all came to know and hate in our own adolescences. By fulfilling missions, you'll 
 progress from one chapter to the next, alternately gaining sway over one social circle while alienating 
 another. One of Bully's many brilliant aspects is the variety it throws into these tasks. At one 
 point, you'll man a potato-spewing turret to defend arm-flailing, bedwetting nerds from invading 
 jocks; at another, a professor instructs you to infiltrate the preppies' dorm and kill a prized 
 Venus flytrap. In fact, some of the most amusing missions were created specifically for the Scholarship 
 Edition and revolve around a Kris Kringle gone bad.  

  The story at the heart of Bully is incredibly involving, and Jimmy is both charming and exasperatingly 
 cocky. He's also believable and is likely to remind you of at least one person you know or knew 
 in your younger years. The enormous surrounding cast of goofball nerds and slick-haired greasers 
 deserves equal praise, from the obese and enuretic Algie to Mandy, the head cheerleader with a 
 surprising streak of insecurity. The success here is twofold. First off, you have an incredible 
 script bursting with both cringe-inducing realism and snort-out-loud one-liners. A romantic interest 
 says "I'm such a player" after flowers and a kiss; cafeteria cook Edna tells you that hawking a 
 loogie into the mystery stew gives it flavor. At first glance, these moments seem to play to stereotype, 
 but each character transcends labels and comes across as remarkably individual. Second of all, 
 the voice acting is utterly spectacular, from the main cast to the hysterical quips from minor 
 characters you overhear in your travels.  

  You're hardly stuck moving in a straight march from one mission to the next. As you play, more 
 and more of the academy and its surrounding community open up, giving you plenty of leeway to explore 
 Bully's many unique nooks and crannies. If you choose to stay on campus, you can attend class in 
 the morning or afternoon. Standbys such as gym (dodgeball time!) and chemistry are still here, 
 but four new classes have been added to the PlayStation 2 standards, and they are arguably more 
 entertaining than the holdovers. In biology class, you must carve open a specimen and remove its 
 vital organs in an allotted amount of time -- and it's much tougher than it sounds. In geography, 
 you must place the appropriate flag on its corresponding country. Math takes a Brain Age approach 
 by asking you to quickly solve simple math problems, whereas music class involves a rhythm-based 
 minigame. Passing your lesson means gaining a new reward, whether it be new clothing, new melee 
 combos, or better aim with your slingshot.  

  Of course, you can skip class entirely (and risk being seen by the keen eyes of prefects and police 
 officers) and tool around on your own. Here, you can bully other kids to your heart's content or 
 save the meeker students from their own bullies by beating up the aggressors. Close combat is on 
 the simple side, especially after you unlock various combinations. However, there are times when 
 you'll need to handle multiple enemies at once, which makes for a greater challenge. If you choose 
 to explore your inner intimidator, there are plenty of ways to do it outside of fisticuffs, though. 
 You can shoot bottle rockets at fellow students, give them wedgies, stuff them into lockers or 
 garbage cans, or taunt them once you've sufficiently whittled down their health bars. If you'd 
 rather follow the straight (mostly) and narrow, you can romance the ladies (and a few gents) by 
 giving them flowers -- or chocolates, in the case of the big-boned gals -- which usually merits a sloppy-sounding 
 kiss. Alternately, you can run quick errands for townspeople, mow lawns for extra cash, participate 
 in bike races, drop some quarters into arcade machines and gun for a high score, egg cars, take 
 yearbook photos, or head to the local carnival and lounge with the little people. You could probably 
 hurry through the main quest in 10 hours or so, but you could easily spend four times that number 
 if you wanted to see everything Bully has to offer.  

  Just be sure to hook up an Xbox 360 controller if you want to have fun with these tasks. Not only 
 are the keyboard and mouse controls awful, but inexplicably, Bully does not support any other gamepad. 
 The default key assignments are laughable (who thought that using the left alt key as a main button 
 was a good idea or that it should be the oft-hammered sprint button?) , though you can thankfully 
 reassign them to more natural-feeling keys. The mouselook camera controls are lethargic and don't 
 improve much if you increase the mouse sensitivity in the menus (which you can access only when 
 the game has started, not from the main menu) . And in a final slight to PC game players everywhere, 
 Bully's tutorial tells you to press "mousewheel up" and "mousewheel down" at the same time. Some 
 console-to-PC ports need a controller to be at their best, but given Bully's brand of third-person 
 action, it shouldn't have been one of them.  

  As you move from one task to the next, you will discover some of Bully's other idiosyncrasies. 
 This is a game that does a lot, though mechanically speaking, some aspects don't work as well as 
 others. Triggering an event or opening a door can sometimes be a pain because, for whatever reason, 
 even standing right on top of the marker won't always generate the prompt; bicycle and skateboard 
 controls can be loose, which in turn leads to some frustration on certain missions; and some targeting 
 foibles can make it tough to punch or aim, among other peculiarities. And in this version, you 
 can add the occasional crash to the list -- so save early, and save often.  

           Your eyes don't deceive you: The outdoor environments really do look this washed out. 

  It's unsurprising that a port of a two-year-old PlayStation 2 game wouldn't live up to current-day 
 standards from a technical point of view. However, Bullworth is rendered with incredible style, 
 from restrooms dingy enough to make you wrinkle your nose to a beautifully designed carnival funhouse 
 that hits all the right notes. Yet while Bully's art design is outstanding, it's technically problematic. 
 For some reason, outdoor environments are all washed out; everything is fuzzy and overlit during 
 the day, as if you turned up the gamma settings on your monitor. There are also all sorts of weird 
 lighting glitches, like flickers and blinking shadows. Additionally, Bully's technical performance 
 is decidedly mediocre, and the slowdown isn't limited to the frame rate: The entire game speed 
 lurches along, slowing down and hurrying up as you move in and out of more populated areas. At 
 least you'll get an amazing sonic experience. As previously mentioned, the voice acting is outstanding, 
 and everything from ambient sound effects to the eccentric minimalist soundtrack strikes just the 
 right chord. However, we ran into a number of sound bugs, such as frequent occasions when voice-over 
 and lip movement became desynched or when speech was completely inaudible.  

  If you skipped Bully the first time around, you should definitely catch up on what you missed -- but 
 you shouldn't do it with the PC version. The game offers plenty of memorable moments and crafts 
 an adolescent world that is both surreal and painfully truthful, but a poor job of porting means 
 that you need to overcome a number of obstacles to get the most out of it. The platform -- and the 
 game -- deserve more respect than this.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gereksiz13
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:26 am PT
Review:  Good game but could have been better. I'll make my pontage over 10 in each category, with reasons.
 
  
  Gameplay: 7
  ~~~~~~~~~~
  The gaming experience is enjoying. Yet, there is a feeling that it needed a little nudge to make 
 it better. It is all about running around to reach somewhere in time, escaping law enforcers, and 
 in order not to get bored. The environment is lively but not enough. The others (NPCs) interact 
 with your character because they were told to do so by their programmers. At least I felt that 
 during the time I played the game. It gives an arcade feeling. These are the reasons my score is 
 7.
  
  
  Graphics: 7
  ~~~~~~~~~
  It looks as if two different teams modeled and skinned the characters in the game. Some of them 
 are realistic, yet some are really cartoon-like. The mimics and gestures are horrible. That loosens 
 the connection you make with the game. Also the modeling is a little childish. Sometimes it feels 
 good since this is a childish game. Nevertheless, in all that childish environment your character 
 really blooms. Moreover, inside-the-building graphics and outside-the-building graphics are not 
 overlapping. I think they tried to use a bloom effect on outdoor graphics but it kicks back. Graphics 
 are 7/10
  
  
  Sound: 5
  ~~~~~~~~
  I'll keep this one short. I hate listening the same damn background music over and over for hours. 
 Also, I do not know how many 15-16 year-old teens are out there whose voices are those of 27-35 
 year-old guys. I really didn't like the sound.
  
  
  Value: 4
  ~~~~~~~~
  You cannot 
 play it over and over. There is nothing new to make. There are only two options. You can be a badass 
 m******f*** who annoys everyone and misses all the lessons. Or you can be an ordinary Bullworth 
 student, go to the lessons and be naughty sometimes. The story is strict, yet fun, ye strict. 4
 
  
  
  Controls: 8
  ~~~~~~~~~
  Some people complain too much about this issue, but I don't reckon this as an issue. They are simple 
 and logical. The only thing that makes one crazy is that you have to own an X360 controller to 
 play the game without mouse and keyboard. M/K combination is not that hard, one can get used to 
 it within 15 minutes. But a pad is better. You can use the program "xpadder" if you don't own an 
 x360 controller. I did that, and I'm happy as hell.
  
  
  OVERALL: 6.5
 
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~
  The game is fun. It can make your what-shall-I-do-I'm-so-bored moments fun for a few weeks if you 
 are a working grown-up like me, or for a 10 day period if you are a student.
  
  
  
  You can buy this game with contentment. 
 It will not be the collector's favorite, but it can give other programmers an idea.
  
  It would really be fun to play a real student in first-person-view. Like a reality game. Whoa! 
 Thinking about it makes me hopeful. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToJPhantom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 8:34 am PT
Review:  I bought this game having heard some decent reviews. I was expecting much, but knowing that it 
 came from Rockstar the same company that brought us the GTA (Grand Theft Auto) series I had my 
 hopes up a little. I had no technical problems with the game and was able to run it at the highest 
 settings, with no problems. The game was pretty straight forward, and not as open as GTA but still 
 had a fairly big area to explore and secrets to find. I didn't have any trouble with the missions, 
 classes, or mini quests and was able to complete all of them in one try. Some of the characters 
 were a bit bland, but I found my self hating Gary by the end of the game, and loving Russel. The 
 mini games in the classes were also fun, but some of them can get difficult when you make it to 
 the last class. I wasn't really able to get into it at first, and was just going to stop playing 
 but after finishing the first few missions, I wasn't able to stop. So if you are a fan of GTA but 
 are looking for something in a different setting and style pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desmasic
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 8, 2009 2:02 am PT
Review:  I would love to review this awesome port by award winning developers (from England, that too) , 
 yes, indeed I would... to bad I can't get past the second cutscene in the game, me and like 90% 
 of the PC gamers.
  
  Rockstar can't make a good PC port, it's a fact. They s**k at it but they insist on making one 
 anyway cause, you know, we PC gamers like some hardcore 'crashing' simulators.
  
  So anyways, I played like 0.5% of the game, which includes opening scene, walk through blurry, 
 washed out, low poly school yard upto the principal's office.. after which the game just keeps 
 on showing the Loading screen forever. So I don't know why Rockstar (England) thought PC gamers 
 were missing out on an outdated, ugly, Loading screen simulators, but here we are..
  
  Oh, did I mention that since the release, there has been no word from Rockstar on support, no patch, 
 not even a PC port section with issues on their own site?
  
  Stay away.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armaan8014
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2009 2:41 am PT
Review:  I don't know what gamespot didn't like about this one. It's a great game with a great story, great 
 controls, great option, and the greatest character.
  
  The story is kind of like all rockstar games' stories. You are a person who'll do anything for 
 money, and who can do a lot. You get pulled in the situations because of the story's amazing characters, 
 consisting of hypocrites, sociopaths, and plain retards.
  
  The scope of the game is amazing. You are not only bound to the school, but can go around an big 
 enough town, on your board, cycle and more. You can even go to a carnival, swim, play games, tag, shop, dress, get 
 property, take part in race, and a LOT more.
  
  Your character is also very cool, who doesn't care about anyone or anything, but people seem to 
 like him a lot because of his efficiency.
  
  Its amazing to see how the school slowly starts coming in your control, as the story develops.
 
  
  Trust me, this is a superb game and you'll love to play it, especially with the story and the characters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seba_blacknight
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2009 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Bully! Those abusive good for nothing... Well, a good Rockstar Games edition. You know, it's like 
 GTA but in high school, ain't it??? Anyway, the missions are cool, entertaining. The subjects are 
 fine, it's ok the way you have to pass them so you can unlock permanent bonuses, for example, if 
 you pass arts class, every time you kiss a girl, you get 25% extra energy. The chemistry classes 
 unlocks weapons crafting, like firecrackers, smell bombs, etc. My favorite class is the gym one. 
 You unlock movements, combos, and dodging ability among some other things. There is a guy that 
 lives in an abandoned area of the school that, if you take him some transistors or some radio parts 
 or whatever they are, teaches you some fighting moves.
  I like the rivalries between you and the bullies, or you and the preppies. 
  There are lots of 
 things that I should be forgetting, but as long as i will be playing the game i will update.
  A very entertaining game, with action, love and that high school bully touch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zavia
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  I usually agree with the GameSpot review atleast 80% of the time if not more, but troubles with 
 keys? Needing an Xbox Controller? Hmmm. Note: I did not read the review till now, and I've already 
 completed the game.
  
  The only 2 things about the port that I disliked is the reliance on the Left Alt key, and the requirements 
 of the game relative to the graphics. My computer can handle it, but I imagine quite a few cant.
 
  Was it a hassle? No not really, my left thumb felt a bit odd at pressing the left alt along with 
 WASD, but then I'm a Warcraft player, so the Alt button pressing wasn't so foreign.
  
  Bugs? What bugs? I can't say I saw any bugs. I had more trouble with the GTA series with the things 
 they said in the review, than I had with Bully. Only a few times at the start did I not be able 
 to enter a building, but by the 2nd chapter, I can skate all the way to the front door and time 
 it to press the R button to enter without stopping.
  And no, I'm not some OCD person needing to perfect everything. When I said I completed the game, 
 I meant the story. Not every idiot asking me a favour, collecting every collectable and stuff. 
 I'm not a HardCore player. So it wasn't really hard to overcome that particular thing for an average 
 player. Barely noticed it till this review reminded me.
  
  Sound problems, frame rate skipping, never had em. Tho more than once the voice was 0.5-1 sec faster 
 or slower. Some may hate it, but atleast the voice acting isn't scraping your brains out.
  
  This review, IMHO, isn't one of the better ones in gamespot. Comparing this to the other PC 
 games out there, it deserves more than a 6.0. Games with worse glitches and odd controls has been 
 rated as high and not come anywhere near the scope nor fun of Bully ScEd. Reviews should rate a 
 game against others, and its peers. Since this is a pc port, its certainly going to be the weaker 
 of the versions, but giving it a low cos of that? Pfft.
  
  As with any port, I believe in being slightly more forgiving, especially if they let you map out 
 your own keys (HINT HINT TO ROCKSTAR) But to say you CANT play the game? Nah. To say it is significant 
 problem although able to play the game? Only if your fingers are so sensitive. Is it a minor hassle 
 that you will, over time, not notice it cos the game rocks? Yea, about that.
  
  Note2: And i have a controller, didn't at any point in time decide it was worth the hassle to plug 
 it in and use it. Again, if you are a perfectionist, yea, it will bug the **** out of you, Otherwise, 
 game on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  Bully has an interesting story, at least I find is appealing... A problematic boy gets in the worst 
 school in the States, his parents get rid of him that way and you control him on his journey through 
 the school...
  
  Bullworth is a small town with a huge school in it, Bullworth Academy, you start as Jimmy Hopkins, 
 a boy who is a disturbed problematic young boy, who got expelled from many schools and his parents 
 put him in Bullworth academy... The school itself looks good, but on the inside, it is rotten to 
 the core... 
  
  First the looks... the game looks neat, it is not revolutionary good looking but neat, the GTA 
 engine is doing a good job reflecting the small town and the school... I heard some people have 
 problems running the game but I only got a CTD once... 
  
  The content... Well first of all you have courses to take... geography, math, english, chemisty, 
 biology, music... these courses are presented as minigames, you play drums in music class, by pressing 
 the appropriate button on the screen, much like guitar hero simplified, really simplified... or 
 in biology you disect a frog, a pig or a similar animal... these classes are simple minigames and 
 they give you certain bonuses or unlock secret outfits as you progress... 
  
  Lets take a look at the extracurricular activities... this is where the fun starts... well you 
 can throw firecrackers in toilets, throw stinkbombs on people, start a food fight in the cafeteria, 
 pinch girls or harrass them, or you can give girls chocolates or flowers and make out with them... 
 
  
  And of course... Bullying... you can harrass students, pick a fight with them, come from behind 
 and pull out their panties, throw eggs at them, dump them in the garbage can, throw down marbles 
 so they slip and fall down, pick locks on lockers and steal items, skate around and bump people... 
 oh and of course sneak in to the girls dorm and steal their panties :D I have to tell you the setting 
 looks like it is for younger players but believe me, it is not... 
  
  the combat is simple yet effective, you have many moves at your arsenal and it is done with only 
 two or three buttons so its no tekken, you can do a lot of things, all in all combat is fun, nothing 
 like beating a nerd and dumping in the garbage can right?
  
  There are of course some factions in the game, the nerds, the common folk with glasses, always 
 being shoved around, the best student in class... they wear green outfits, and you can see them 
 running around, making funny sounds and getting beaten by the other folk most of the time...
  
  there is another faction, like the bullies but not very bright (I guess it was the jocks I 
 am not sure) but they like to pick fights with nerds most of the time, they tend to do nasty pranks 
 and such...
  
  The rich kids of the school hangs out at a different place in school, they have a rich looking 
 lounge with carpets, fireplaces and such... They do boxing and dont mix up with other common folk... 
 Dont let them see you or they might come in hordes to kick your butt...
  
  the sworn enemies of rich kids, the greaseballs (Sorry I cant remember the faction names) they 
 wear leather jackets and look cool, hang out in the autoshop in school, throw eggs at the boys 
 dorm and such... They look like they are thrown out of the movie "Grease" lol...
  
  so in this setting you take the daunting task of surviving in a cruel and unforgiving... school... 
 I have to tell you the story is not that great, it is a standard Rockstar GTA game, seems Rockstar 
 doesnt want to risk trying something out of the succesfull GTA style formula, the looks, the story, 
 the extras... I have beaten every GTA (not GTA 4 since it is not out for PC yet) but this game 
 is different, it adds a different taste to the game, it might be the minigame courses, or the whole 
 different setting, a school, I am not quite sure what it is but all in all it appeals you and you 
 play it...
  
  To the interface and controls... It is absolutely horrible... keyboard and mouse is unusable in 
 practice, so get a joypad... even with a joypad you will have difficulties so you need to get used 
 to it, adopt to it... But after the adoptation process, you will have fun I guarantee you that...
 
  
  All in all it is a standard GTA like game with a real different setting and nice additions here 
 and there, nice detailed world with lots and lots to do... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonyadgamespot
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  sound is bad , very bad
  and loading is too, oo, oo, oo
  
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  INTEL SOFTWARE LICENSE 
 AGREEMENT (Final, Single User) 
  
  
  IMPORTANT - READ BEFORE COPYING, INSTALLING OR USING. 
  Do not use or load this software and 
 any associated materials (collectively, the "Software") until you have carefully read the following 
 terms and conditions. By loading or using the Software, you agree to the terms of this Agreement. 
 If you do not wish to so agree, do not install or use the Software.
  
  LICENSE. You may copy the Software onto a single computer for your personal, noncommercial use, 
 and you may make one back-up copy of the Software, subject to these conditions: 
  1. You may not copy, modify, rent, sell, distribute or transfer any part of the Software except 
 as provided in this Agreement, and you agree to prevent unauthorized copying of the Software.
 
  2. You may not reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble the Software. 
  3. You may not sublicense or permit simultaneous use of the Software by more than one user.
  
 4. The Software may include portions offered on terms in addition to those set out here, as set 
 out in a license accompanying those portions. 
  
  OWNERSHIP OF SOFTWARE AND COPYRIGHTS. Title to all copies of the Software remains with Intel or 
 its suppliers. The Software is copyrighted and protected by the laws of the United States and other 
 countries, and international treaty provisions. You may not remove any copyright notices from the 
 Software. Intel may make changes to the Software, or to items referenced therein, at any time without 
 notice, but is not obligated to support or update the Software. Except as otherwise expressly provided, 
 Intel grants no express or implied right under Intel patents, copyrights, trademarks, or other 
 intellectual property rights. You may transfer the Software only if the recipient agrees to be 
 fully bound by these terms and if you retain no copies of the Software.
  
  LIMITED MEDIA WARRANTY. If the Software has been delivered by Intel on physical media, Intel warrants 
 the media to be free from material physical defects for a period of ninety days after delivery 
 by Intel. If such a defect is found, return the media to Intel for replacement or alternate delivery 
 of the Software as Intel may select.
  
  EXCLUSION OF OTHER WARRANTIES. EXCEPT AS PROVIDED ABOVE, THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT 
 ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY OF ANY KIND INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, NONINFRINGEMENT, 
 OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Intel does not warrant or assume responsibility for the accuracy 
 or completeness of any information, text, graphics, links or other items contained within the Software.
 
  
  LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. IN NO EVENT SHALL INTEL OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER 
 (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, LOST PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, OR LOST INFORMATION) ARISING 
 OUT OF THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE, EVEN IF INTEL HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY 
 OF SUCH DAMAGES. SOME JURISDICTIONS PROHIBIT EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF LIABILITY FOR IMPLIED WARRANTIES 
 OR CONSEQUENTIAL OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. YOU MAY ALSO 
 HAVE OTHER LEGAL RIGHTS THAT VARY FROM JURISDICTION TO JURISDICTION. 
  
  TERMINATION OF THIS AGREEMENT. Intel may terminate this Agreement at any time if you violate its 
 terms. Upon termination, you will immediately destroy the Software or return all copies of the 
 Software to Intel.
  
  APPLICABLE LAWS. Claims arising under this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of California, 
 excluding its principles of conflict of laws and the United Nations Convention on Contracts for 
 the Sale of Goods. You may not export the Software in violation of applicable export laws and regulations. 
 Intel is not obligated under any other agreements unless they are in writing and signed by an authorized 
 representative of Intel.
  
  GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS. The Software is provided with "RESTRICTED RIGHTS." Use, duplication, 
 or disclosure by the Government is subject to restrictions as set forth in FAR52.227-14 and DFAR252.227-7013 
 et seq. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urbangangsta101
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  Revolutionary in the world of lazy ports. If all PC games were made with this kind of quality, 
 id be a console gamer only.
  
  After sitting through the snooze-fest of an intro, i was presented with a loading screen that loops 
 forever. After researching online, it seems that thousands of people with 4GB+ memory have the 
 problem. Still no patch from Rock$tar, seems like they just rushed this out to make some quick 
 cash.
  
  Some people have cured it by removing memory, but since there are hundreds of good quality games 
 at the moment that benifit from the extra memory, its not an option for me. The only thing i have 
 ended up removing is the game from my hard drive.
  
  Also, the game seems to have a problem loading its visuals untill 30 seconds or so after the scene/level 
 has began. Good job Rock$tar!
  
  This thing makes Alone in the Dark 5 look like a good PC port.
  
  Save your money for something 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freudlacan
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Its hard for me to describe such a complete game, you just keep begging for more.
  
  I guess gamepot rated this game based on the playing of the previous versions, i know it have some 
 weird lightning effects and the awful limitation to play only with the xbox360 controller, but 
 thats not enough to discredit such a wonderful game.
  
  I bet that if this game was never released before in another platform they would not give it that 
 bad qualification. Cause it have an amazing plot, the keyboard controls not that great but you 
 can get used to them, the freedom and diversity of thinks you can do its outstanding, I got to 
 86% and I did a lot!
  
  This is the kind of game i ask for a sequel, everybody had his schooldays and making it possible 
 to go back to school like Jimy Hopkins and doing that bunch of things is something lots of people 
 like me was spectating some day to arrive to the pc.
  
  I played GTA and the godfather, but those games gave me more stress than fun, even if they were 
 addictive too, but with this one it was 90% fun and 10% stress but only for the controllers.
  
  So my final judgment its GO BUY THIS GAME if you haven't played before in other platform 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scritty
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  Bully is an idea that has always appealed to me. A mature gamer who remember "Back to Skool" and 
 "Skooldaze" by Micromega back in the 80's. I couldn't wait.
  
  I've got the PS2 version. But I can't stand playing action games with a joypad... so I waited for 
 the PC version.
  
  Rockstar normally sort this sort of stuff out well for the PC Vice City and San Andreas (this game 
 has an unashamedly nicked game mechanics to these games) play beautifully on the PC, but I said 
 "normally" .. normally....
  
  Here playing with the mouse/keyboard combo is like trying to pot poolballs with a piece of boiled 
 string. It's HORRIBLE.
  
  Mouselook just doesn't work, you have that joypad thing of changing the camera and the hero seperately.
 
  
  Oh there is an option that says "mouse walk" or something - but it seems to do nothing.
  
  A shame. All the GTA games were adapted so very very well, I can't see why we have to put up 
 with this on Bully.. two years waiting and spoiled by a control system from hell 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  Bully has many features that makes you feel and say "booyah".. The kinda pranks that u can play, 
 locker room lock pickin, kissin girls, attending classes (wide variety of subjects) , child weapons 
 like slingshots, marbles, firecrackers etc.., transportation means like skating board, bicycles 
 and lots and lots more to make u feel like u want to live those days again.
  
  The main missions, errant jobs, bein newspaper boy, mowin lawns for money, takin up deliveries, 
 racing missions, go kart missions etc are all childish but funny ones and dont expect that u get 
 to use M4 carbines or double Uzis and drive around on a banshee or somethin.. Its all about what 
 an adolescent can do and within his max. limits.. Afterall, who doesn want to be a bully..
  
  Would say, its definitely worth the buy.. Booyah... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: agent_decrypt
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  1) The game is too buggy, but I experienced the buggy problem in the starting of the game.
  
  2) Video quality is not that good.
  
  3) It crashes, especially, when you enter the class 
 or school and in the Halloween, of course.
  
  4) Rockstar will release patch for the bugs soon. So wait for 2-3 months.
  
  5) Otherwise game 
 is not that hard. Its OK.
  
  6) Controls are much annoying and Menu is not very interective.
  
  7) Bike handeling is slightly 
 tough.
  
  8) AI is good but the world is short.
  
  9) Graphics problem is there, almost with every chapter and every mision. Game slows down automatically 
 even if my PC requirements are quite good.
  
  10) Hoping for a a good patch to come out, otherwise there is no fun in playing Bully.
  
  11) 
 First see screenshots and read all the reviews and most importantly wait for a patch to come, then 
 buy the game.
  
  12) And game is Good. Must give it a SHOT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tableto
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  I like this game, because it is something new, you live lil boyz life, in school, you can be good 
 to others or bad, solve quests, do little jobs, its a hours of fun ;)
  But only one thing i dislike is a lot of bugs, but the bugfix isn't relased yet : (
  
  But story 
 in game is good, one of that games where i look movies at start of quests, because its fun :)
 
  Map is big for that type of game, you can buy bike to moves faster, also scooter is availible 
 :)
  at the start in one mission you gain skateboard :)
  
  Ill wait for bugfix because i cant get over one mision always threw out error, and it hurts because 
 its original game, i know a cracked versions has a lot of bugs and errors but on orginal DVD : (
 
  And a fact that they more than week makes it.
  
  In my opinion its one of this years best games ;)
  I know it cant stand at others who will be, 
 but Rockstar has made very good game after GTA4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixtykurrumi
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  At the beginning of the game everything is really funny, you can hit teachers (which I think is 
 the dream of every kid and teenager) thats really funny looking at the reaction of them, also fighting 
 with other students is great, when you are going through the story you are gonna have some fun 
 but what i didn't like is the useless 100% I hate that from gta sa and from this game, also after 
 you finish the story you are gonna start getting bored of doing the same all the time again and 
 again and having the same reactions from each different character so I think that this is a good 
 game to play the story but after that I recommend you sell it or rent it but after some time you 
 are gonna get bored after seeing the same characters all the time, but of course that is what I 
 think.
  
  P. S. If you're gonna play it in your pc I recommend you:
  USE AN XBOX 360 CONTROLLER otherwise it will be almost impossible to play and you're gonna hate 
 it just to try it with a keyboard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: letterbombed
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting to pick this game up since I heard about its production, but as you fellow PC 
 owners know, we are usually kept waiting. First off, this game was released originally at the tail 
 end of the PS2s life, realizing this, and factoring in the $30 price tag, we can't give it too 
 much trouble over the graphic quality. The graphics in this game are not cutting edge, but they 
 are definitely passable, and do not take away from the gameplay. At 1280x1024, this game looks 
 just fine. The controls in Bully are fantastic, I believe an xbox 360 controller is essential for 
 all PC owners. With that, Jimmy handles great, it makes a world of difference. I've heard a number 
 of complaints regarding bugs and lag. I have yet to have a single crash in the game, although I 
 have found when alt+tabbing I sometimes wait a minute or two after switching back for the game 
 to reload. However, I believe alt+tab support is not a requirement for any game. I have not experienced 
 much, if any lag on my PC, which is a 1.9ghz dual core AMD w/ an ASUS 8600GTS. The game runs smooth 
 at 1280x1024 resolution and the controls respond accurately. My only main complaint comes from 
 the sound department. The random phrases coming from NPCs are a little overkill and it's not uncommon 
 to hear the same phrase about 10 times in a single minute when running, skating or biking around. 
 There are plenty of fun little mini games to give you a break from the standard story line, and 
 many errands you can run for extra cash. You can customize the look of Jimmy, and characters will 
 make different responses based on your appearance.
  
  Overall this is quite a fun little bargain game, you cannot go wrong with the price tag for the 
 amount of play time you can get out of this title. Unfortunately, with the release of such games 
 as Fallout 3, Dead Space, and Quantum of Solace, Bully seems to have been overshadowed, however 
 this is a game that has provided me with over 10 hours of gameplay, and when the steady stream 
 of hot anticipated releases dies down, I'm sure I'll find myself back at it to complete the story.
 
  
  Overall: 8/10
  Graphics: 7/10
  Controls: 10/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Gameplay: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lallulalu
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Bully has many features that makes you feel and say "booyah".. The kinda pranks that u can play, 
 locker room lock pickin, kissin girls, attending classes (wide variety of subjects) , child weapons 
 like slingshots, marbles, firecrackers etc.., transportation means like skating board, bicycles 
 and lots and lots more to make u feel like u want to live those days again.
  
  The main missions, errant jobs, bein newspaper boy, mowin lawns for money, takin up deliveries, 
 racing missions, go kart missions etc are all childish but funny ones and dont expect that u get 
 to use M4 carbines or double Uzis and drive around on a banshee or somethin.. Its all about what 
 an adolescent can do and within his max. limits.. Afterall, who doesn want to be a bully..
  
  Would say, its definitely worth the buy.. Booyah... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing!! i cant say something alse its so fun, its like GTA only that here you play 
 as a bully.
  
  graphics: ok the graphics is not the best, theres a lot of better looking games than BULLY, but 
 the cherters looking really good, effects also not the best but its not that bad, the graphics 
 is OK
  
  sounds: the sounds are great, voice acting is awesome, fire crackers are also sound awesome, dialog 
 between cherters are really funny.
  
  gameplay: yes, its awesome, every one likes to be a bad bully, i love what the game has to offer 
 like: trap some poor kid in the locker or put some fat geek in the trash, also lots of fighting, 
 and combat moves really do the trick, the teachers are like the COPS in GTA, they will catch you 
 in every chanse they have, also the classes are really fun to play, like mini games that you do 
 like BIOLOGY where you take a knife and cut a frog or a bird, or chemistry where you need to to 
 something alse, the game offers you lots of space and lots of fun and cool beatdown moves.
  
  main problem: LAGS !! OMG sometimes the game gets so laggy its aweful this is the only reason 
 why i gaved this game 9.0 insted of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franko_3
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 28, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  *the score is temporary until they publish a patch that fix the game breaking bug I am experiencing* 
 If they don't, well, this review will be final and I will make sure to avoid their products for 
 a while.
  
  Bully is by far the worst pc port of a console game I've ever played. I was sure that Rock* were 
 respecting pc user and would have made a sweet port like before, but no. The game is plagued by 
 some cheaps bugs that would make the unpatched x360 version a charming experience vs this. 
  
  
  
  My config: Q6600 @2.4ghz, vista 64bit, 8800gts512 2 gb of ram.
  
  Gameplay: You 
 are what we call a social reject sent into the worst school on the country made only for special 
 case like you. You attend your class and advance though the story after school (or during if you 
 don't care getting chased) . The school class are pretty much a joke. Some are really hard, like 
 the shop and english class (more easy, once you notice they accept plural forms of the same words...) , 
 or too easy, like biology and music. Geography is probably the only useful class since it could 
 teach some americans some basic information about the world map ;) (I am joking :D ) They will 
 hold your attention for a short time and will feel like a chore to accomplish. 
  
  The main story is made of pure unoriginality and feature the usual gta-esque story (control the 
 town even if you pretend you don't want to) adapted for kids with the usual "your friend become 
 a traitor" plot that would make The Young and the Restless scenarists blush for it's lack of originality. 
 You can also do some errants quests, but none of them represent a real challenge or are funny to 
 do and you will most likely force yourself to do them to get the famous and useless 100%.
  I will finish this section once they make a patch to fix the bug that make me unable to finish 
 the quest where you need to destroy the big plant...
  
  Graphic: While I have a top of the range computer, I am not an hardcore graphic fanboy. The gta3-vc-sa 
 engine is a nice engine, in my mind. It get the job done and show plenty of detail. On the other 
 side, this port is a disgrace to gta: sa. While SA graphic were good, bully graphic are horrible 
 and the main reason for that is the absurb bloom effect they added when you are outside. This bloom 
 effect is like watching your screen though 2 pounds of vaseline and will most likely give you a 
 headache. You can't even remove it in the graphic option that is limited to the resolution and 
 AA. Really cheap. 
  
  Sounds: Ok sounds effects and repetitive music that feel like a rip-off of Harry Potter soundtrack. 
 Voice actor are ok, nothing fantastic. 
  
  value: For 30$ you get a 3 years old game that should have been free (with gtaIV) , in a ceral box 
 or for 10$. It's incredible how stupid I have been to purchase this game before the first patch/review. 
 The game is barely playable with all the bugs, all the graphical glitch and bloom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilotibufanti
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  The game of the week for me, cool gameplay, new stuff, and of course all for PC! What can I say 
 about the graphics? beautiful details. and controls is not easy to control with the keyboard but 
 it's ok. 
  Regret would be that you have to go to class, and not much time to do missions that should especially 
 go to bed. Even so this makes the game more realistic!
  Weapons, vehicles: I want to tell you that you will not see children with M4A1 and rocket launchers, 
 weapons will be dynamite, linear fire extinguisher ... and vehicles, of course, in game will not 
 be Ferrari, Lamborghini but will be bicycles and skateboards. 
  I do not want to give details about the story but I can say that it is actually original, the game 
 is all original! Worth bought, played and of course you feel good when you play! Just like in a 
 high school. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggycz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  It is really cool game with unique story and nice to play. Easy controls, but regullery hard difficuality. 
 I recommend this game for all Rockstar, especially Grand Theft Auto fans. Game seems like GTASA 
 in school edition with younger boy. You can kiss girls, fight with other school clubs, visiting 
 school, make a chaos and more. But game have strange controlling from console. I give to this game 
 9.0/10 because I spent about 10 or 20 hours by playing this game on console and next 15 hours on 
 PC and seems like a really ambitious game. I write, do next game similar to this Rockstar. And 
 I definetely give to this game score 9.0 from 10. Good luck with installing and have fun with playing 
 this amazing game from school. I think its cheap investition to game with these unique options 
 as it in Bully. Scholarship Edition bring some new features, new clothes, new options to the game 
 and it will be better than you can imagine. Everybody tells to Rockstar, so when you release this 
 game for PC and Rockstar giving you answer, we releasing this game NOW ! Everybody in any country 
 can play this game and have fun with it. And at the end I sorry for my english, because I m from 
 Czech Republic. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
