-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Burnout Paradise: The Ultimate Box
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/burnout5/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Party mode minigames are great with friends.
 Bikes and night racing offer plenty of variety.
 Racing and wrecking are still awesome.
 Open-world design creates a great sense of destructive freedom.
 Online functionality is seamless and addictive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Open-world racing can be overwhelming.
 Irritating DJ.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 11, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.8, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 1,403 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Criterion Games
Genre: Racing
Date:     Feb 5, 2009 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Ultimate Box brings many improvements to an already impressive game, and it's one of the best 
 racing games available on the PC. 

  Burnout Paradise reinvigorated Criterion's ultra-successful smash-up racing series when it launched 
 this time last year on the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, and Burnout Paradise: The Ultimate Box brings 
 the series' trademark racing action to the PC for the first time. With solid online and offline 
 play, an almost staggering number of events, and more than 70 vehicles, Ultimate Box is at the 
 front of the PC racer pack.  

  The amount of variety in the game is huge, and how you approach it is up to you; explore Paradise 
 City's open world at leisure, unlock the 70-plus vehicles one at a time through single-player events, 
 or join other players for races and challenges online. Couple this deep variety with the fact that 
 it's hugely fun, and Burnout Paradise is easy to recommend. In addition to all of the content from 
 the original console game, Ultimate Box also includes all of Burnout Paradise's downloadable content 
 released to date. First up, there's Codename: Cagney, which adds the Stunt Run, Marked Man, and 
 Road Rage modes to online multiplayer. The Bikes pack adds two-wheeled racing and a day/night cycle 
 to the series for the first time. And last, there's Burnout Party, the first paid-for content to 
 hit the game. Burnout Party is a pass-the-controller-style offline party mode for two to eight 
 players and is a fun new way to experience Burnout.  

           The Ultimate Box crams bikes, night races, and a heap of new modes into the series.   
    

  Gameplay options are largely unchanged from the console version and include normal race, Stunt 
 Run, Marked Man, Road Rage, and Burning Route. For those new to the Burnout series, in Stunt Run 
 you chain together drifts, jumps, and boosts to achieve combos; in Road Rage events you need to 
 eliminate opponents by smashing them into traffic or objects; and in Marked Man you have to reach 
 the finish line before your opponents can destroy your car. Burning Route consists of time trials 
 from point to point, and by completing them you'll unlock an upgraded model of your current ride. 
 Unlike in Burnout 3, The crash mode and aftertouch takedowns from Burnout 3 are missing from Paradise, 
 but it does have the Showtime mode, which lets you take control of a wreck through the streets 
 of Paradise City and rack up a damage bill in the process. Showtime mode isn't as strategically 
 crafted as the challenges in Crash mode, but you'll still get to dish out plenty of carnage on 
 unsuspecting traffic.  

  The biggest new feature this time around is the Burnout Paradise Party Pack, which adds an offline 
 pass-the-controller multiplayer challenge mode for up to eight friends. Once you've set up the 
 number of players and game types, you'll compete in a series of minigames where you earn points 
 for successfully passing a challenge or beating your opponents' scores. The Party Pack offers instant 
 gameplay for when you and your friends don't want to compete in longer, more demanding events, 
 and it consists of three challenge types: stunts, skill, and speed. Stunts are a collection of 
 insane tricks, such as successfully landing a cliff-top jump. Skill challenges include driving 
 into oncoming traffic with boost on for as long as possible. Speed challenges might have you smashing 
 a few billboards and then racing back to the start within a designated time limit. The Party Pack 
 is a great addition that finally brings offline multiplayer to Burnout Paradise.  

           Some challenges involve nothing more than reaching seemingly inaccessible areas.      
 

  Getting online is as simple as hitting a button during gameplay, at which point you'll join your 
 friends or enter a random lobby. The online mode is seamless, and there are no loading times; you 
 can drop in and out of online games at will. You can set up simple point-to-point races all over 
 the city when hosting a multiplayer session, or tackle a Freeburn Challenge set by the developers, 
 with different challenges depending on the number of players. Burnout Paradise included 350 challenges, 
 and there are now an additional 140 challenges with the new packs. The challenge types are varied 
 and include straight races, beat-the-clock events, jumping over other players' rides, and other 
 more-complex multipart challenges, such as meeting at a designated place and racing a route to 
 an end point while hitting specific jumps along the way. Challenges are a lot of fun, especially 
 when you have a large group of friends to play with, and they give the online play a lot of longevity. 

  You'll spend the majority of your time in Paradise City on four wheels, but there's an option to 
 use just two. Bikes are a great addition to the game; and while you can only compete in time trial 
 events, there are different events for daytime and nighttime. Bikes come without boost since they're 
 already blisteringly fast, and they won't take damage either. All of the bikes are extremely light 
 and nimble and are so fast that they almost make the cars feel a tad sluggish by comparison. While 
 it would have been great to see damage modelling on the bikes, and more bikes included, you're 
 guaranteed to have a blast with the two bikes at the start and the two upgraded models you can 
 unlock after completing all of the time trials.  

  Visually, the PC version is even more of a sumptuous feast than its console brethren. Running at 
 its highest resolution, Paradise City has never looked crisper or more vibrant. Cars smash, pop, 
 scrape, and deform just as you'd expect, and the particle effects make the wanton destruction seem 
 real. The weather effects brought in with the Bikes pack look great, with fog, glowing nighttime 
 neon, and the half-light of dusk all rendered with style.  

           It wouldn't be Burnout if the wrecks weren't superbly detailed and satisfying.      

 
  The audio is also top-notch, with traffic and ambient noises providing a backdrop for the high-pitched 
 whines and throaty growls of the game's cars and bikes. Unfortunately, DJ Atomica is back again 
 from Burnout 3 and is still an irritation for the most part. With its bland and generic rock soundtrack, 
 the audio certainly doesn't live up to the high standards set by the visuals. While there are a 
 few notable artists, including Guns N' Roses (providing the game's title track) , Jane's Addiction, 
 LCD Soundsystem, and Faith No More, these are outnumbered by the generic guitar rock and electronic 
 tracks from past Burnout games and tracks from a number of less-illustrious artists.  

  Emerging a year after the original console release, Burnout Paradise: The Ultimate Box doesn't 
 just manage to keep up with the pace of the competition; it's at the front of the pack. If you 
 own one of the console versions and already have the DLC packs, there's no major benefit to upgrading, 
 but if you're new to Burnout Paradise, The Ultimate Box is the best Burnout experience to date. 
 With a mass of online and offline events and modes, dozens of cars, the addition of bike and night 
 races, and an all-new party mode for up to eight friends, The Ultimate Box is instantly gratifying 
 and long-lasting high-octane entertainment.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (51 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Martin12345678
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Burnout paradise is a great game with awesome graphics.
  It's interface is amazing compared to nascar or other racing games.
  Something bad about it is 
 it has races, marked man's (trying to reach a goal with opponents gunning you down) , stunt runs, 
 road rages and burning routes. That's now a lot if you consider that it has 120 events THAT ARE 
 ALL THE SAME! you just go around smashing cars or passing finish lines, that great at first after 
 a week your mom or girlfriend or wife will go "honey i never saw you play that game you bought. 
So what will you say !, I'm bored with it?!
  
  well that's not going to happen because
  the main point : online gaming 
  The raw feeling of taking out an opponent just can't be explained 
 with words, You just HAVE TO TRY IT Without the online game play its just dull.
  
  ~hope this helped, Martin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeltacore
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 3:22 am PT
Review:  After the NFS series, any company would be ambitious to make another driving game. With that said, 
 Burnout is one of those games that took all the important elements from its predecessors and repackaged 
 them. 
  
  The open endedness really makes the game fly, although other games such as test drive and driver 
 and midtown madness tried similar techniques, burnout is able to create an environment that keeps 
 the player going.
  
  Some crucial elements are missing making the game 'too' straight forward. If things like cop chases, 
 more customisations for the cars, and a multi-lateral map etc, the game would be flawless. The 
 fact is burnout suffers from the same problem a lot of games face these days. That is the barrier 
 trick, where you would like to see the car be able to access 'all' of the areas on the map, but 
 all of them are made inaccessible (blockage) . I would personally add in the fps element of dynamic 
 environments, where everything can be damaged and accessed.
  
  Overal the game brings nothing ground-breaking onto the table, but its one of those games that 
 draws you in when you are looking at your desktop. It might not be the rush you are looking for, 
 but it is one of those long term games you can play at your leisure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hostX9
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2009 1:30 pm PT
Review:  The game has it's own fun factor, for example crashing your or other cars with spectacular crash 
 movies for every crash you made (during the time they get annoying ) , sometimes just too much Hollywood 
 stunt action cause with a low speed crashing into a car isn't making it fly in the reality ;) .
 
  Well the gameplay is very nice, easy to drive, typically arcade driving. You discover the environment 
 for gas stations to fill up your boost ("nitro") , repair stations and Junk Yards. Yes you heard 
 it right Junk yards. They are some sort of garages. During the finished races (and gaining up your 
 driving license to higher levels) you get informed for new cars cruising around the city, and for 
 getting them into your "garage" or better to say Junk Yard you have to find it with your current 
 car in the free run mode and crash it, so it will logically land into the Junk Yard.
  In the Paradise City you can drive with Bikes (which have only time challenges) and Cars which 
 have 5 different category challenges, so it's much more fun to play it then regular racing games 
 in which you only race for the 1st place.
  There are also some other "challenges" in the free ride mode like The marked man (you drive to 
 a destination while other drivers try to crash your car for totaling it) , Stunt, Race, Time and 
 Rage (the target to win is to take down the set number of cars) Challenges. There are also some 
 other events in the free mode for example you have to find and smash a number of Burnout paradise 
 billboards around the whole place, find a lots of hidden ways marked with yellow gates, search 
 for park houses, and search for some other secrets for which you get a hints by listening to "DJ 
 atomic" in the game.
  There is no credit system, the only rule is to crash cars :) , and there's also no police who would 
 hunt you down like in Need for Speed.
  The game is a bit short in the way of driving of your driving license levels. But for finishing 
 all those challenges it need's lots of time. But during the gameplay everything gets monotone, 
 cause you almost all the time do the same, and also the racing events have lots of times the same 
 racing destinations.
  
  Good :
  + Lots of Fun factor
  + Great graphic
  + Nice crashes
  + Innovative challenges
  + various environment
  + Lot's of cars
  
  Bad:
 
  - during the time challenges get boring
  - videos for every crash of your car get annoying during the gameplay
  
  I suggest this game 
 to everyone who loved games like: Midtown Madness series, TrackMania, Carmageddon etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMaBIOHAZARD
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Think of what Grand Theft Auto would be like if you didn't have weapons, couldn't get out of the 
 car, and pretty much just drove around engaging in random races all the time would be like, with 
 an absolutely superb damage modelling system and much better bike-handling. 
  
  That's virtually what Burnout: Paradise - The Ultimate Box is. Its good fun with a lot of depth 
 and great replayability. The graphics are great, with its great use of shiny surfaces, and solid-looking 
 environments (that look like some real place might) , although the graphical focus is obviously 
 on the beautifully animated bikes and cars.
  
  Although you have to pay for it :' ( there's a hell of a lot of downloadable content, as well as 
 the oodles of stuff that's packed into the box you are likely holding in your hands, or about to 
 be. Its all fun and useful, too.
  
  Although I never really felt compelled at first to enter any of the races that were presented all 
 across the city (instead just driving the incredibly fast cycles around the city and on the miles 
 of railroad track, which is as much fun as the rest of the game) when I did, I was surprised by 
 how much fun I was having, not to mention the variety of the races. There's at least half a dozen, 
 if not many more, and each of them is really well done. 
  
  That's already the makings of a really, really solid game. But the icing on the cake has to be 
 these two things:
  
  1. the amazing jumps that will just suddenly be sprung on you while going on the side-passages, 
 alleyways, docks, and other off-road places that will just make you jump a little in your chair 
 to see not only how high up it is, but how awesome that fall is going to be (for lack of a better 
 way to describe it) .
  
  2. Every street is an achievement and a leaderboard in its own right. There are all those "Burnout" 
 billboards to crash through. They even have a counter for how many shortcuts you've taken. This 
 is what I mean by replayability: you can spend hours trying to beat both your scores and your friend's 
 scores on various roads without even touching the races, and have the time of your life. 
  
  Without a doubt, this is one of the most arcadey, awesome racing games I've ever played, and 
 I've played quite a few in my day. This is really worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dar4iks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 8:36 am PT
Review:  Burnout paradise was a game wich in start wasnt so impressive for me guys cmon they should have 
 better graphics for year 2009 :D
  but then I strated to like it so maybe im not a burnout fun but it was fun to play I played party 
 mode with my friends and multiplayer with other ppl and than I understanded its not so bad at all. My 
 ratings for this game
  
  Gameplay-9
  Sound-10
  and Graphics-8 
  
  ok those are the most inportant things for me to rate a game :)
  lol and I have the song stucked 
 in my head 
  Take me down to da paradise city ..... :D
  so you should check out this game and have fun playing it 
  
  Ok I need 800 words
  
  dwfhqwfhqwfqwufgqwiufgq
 
  fqwghqwuifgqwiufgqw
  qwqwiufgqwigfqi]
  qbfqwuigfqwuigfq
  fqgfquiwgfquwfgqwfui
  fqufgqwufgqwfy
  fwfuqwgfwuifgqw
  qwvfyufguwfguqw
  fqhyfgqfigqwfiu
  fufgiqgfqwiufgwbf
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wintermute_66
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 29, 2009 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot Editors choice ? LOL. Are you kidding ?
  
  I love a good racing game. I love even better, a good Arcade Racing game that involves you with 
 a decent learning curve and, and satisfying goals to acheive. This isn't Burnout paradise forte 
 at all. All you seem to do is drive around doing stupid tricks and the racing just doesn't have 
 the same excitment as NFS (Most Wanted, lets say, as that was the best NFS) or Racedriver Grid.
 
  
  Firstly, the Car physics are plain awful. I play racing games always with a wheel/pedals, maybe 
 this is the problem. This game is just too Arcade and gamepad orientated. There doesn't seem to 
 be much to do except pointlessly blast around the place crashing. And that gets old real quick. 
 I had high hopes for this, but for now I will stick with Racedriver Grid: The undisputed King Of 
 Racing games for PC. Nothing comes close. If Racedrive Grid is a 10, Burnout Paradise is a sick 
 1. Suitable for the crossover console kiddies only.
  
  Booooooooo.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaaCs
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2009 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise... I was waiting for the PC release of this game since over than a year. when 
 I heard that there will be a PC release for the Paradise City, I was so excited, I just kept on 
 going to stores to check if they got it or not. when I got the game installed on my tablet PC, 
 and started playing it I felt like i got the whole world in my hands, well basically because i 
 was waiting for this game to be released for along time, and when I used to play it with my friends 
 on their PS3, I just couldn't stop playing or leave the controller so someone else could play. 
 Anyways the game is amazing in many ways, but as we all know nothing is perfect, well this game 
 wasn't. 
  
  Burnout Paradise had a very high quality pictures, although I'm on a medium quality, the cars were 
 amazing even the music was cool. Actually, almost 60% of my time playing Paradise City was me driving 
 the car listening to the music, and try to beat some records, or just driving...
  
  Burnout had some problems that needs to be fixed. For example the car accidents, "what the hell 
 they were thinking when they made it", Ill tell you something, once as I was driving "logically 
 less than 60mph" then i hit a car from the side... well the car should have at least just pass 
 next to it but scratch it "fyi i had it once real-time situation"... but what happened was that 
 car that i hit didn't even had scratches, mean while my car was flying and the glass was going 
 out etc... What I want to say is, I know we are the ones who make the accidents but make them more 
 realistic.... Another problem is the car itself... You are playing the race for example and you 
 hit something, your car will be toasted in no time but the other racers ....... wait for it ...... 
 ...... ..... nothing happens to them!!! Dear reader if you work for EA, knows someone that knows 
 some one, that knows some one that works in EA please tell him/her to make Burnout more realistic... 
 this release is finished, but hopefully in the upcoming releases they notice these problems..... 
 "FYI I didn't mention all of the problems, because that well take me about an hour to write them 
 down and it will be too long and boring"
  
  Burnout, Midnight Club, and Need for Speed, are the best car racing games ever "from my point of 
 view", the only thing that I could see that these three games have 100% match is the name of the 
 company "EA Games". but each of these games have its own unique specialty. Burnout is the best 
 when it comes to accidents and takedowns, but in police and in maps nah not that much .... Need 
 for speed have the best police but maps and aggression not that much too... midnight club have 
 the best maps and racing but no aggression and the police aren't that good comparing to the police 
 of Need for Speed 
  
  I know this is long so im sorry for wasting your time you can comment if you like .... hopefully 
 I will answer xD...
  
  btw the last sentence im gona rit is takin from a game, bet ya guys to know it... oh yea only the 
 first rit answer is concidered cuz u mit just copy it from him later :D :P
  
  eagle six out...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmanr93
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 8:20 am PT
Review:  TO start with, I was a racing genre fan back then with the release of Road rash, NFS 2. But recently 
 when EA started releasing yearly versions of NFS, the franchise ruined! I have played almost all 
 NFS games, grid, Test drive unlimited, and Pure the very recent one.
  While NFS undercover was a complete letdown, with the launch of Burnout paradise EA has completely 
 amazed me!
  
  This game is a real gas... plain and simple. It is one of the best video games I have ever played 
 on any platform and in any genre. Wicked Crashes, fantastic stunts and engaging and challenging 
 races. The action is fast paced and heart pounding.
  
  Graphics : 10/10
  Graphics are very detailed. game looks gorgeous, even though I have a mediocre graphics card. Smooth 
 framerate. 
  
  Controls : 10/10
  somewhat similar to NFS, but overall better. Very distinct, and fluid. Not clunky in any sense. 
 Arcadish controls and feel makes this game a must own.
  
  Soundtrack : 9/10
  Selected Guns N roses soundtrack is simply astonishing. The only thing that holds it back are some 
 sketchy soundtrack choices like Avril Levigne "Girlfriend".
  
  Gameplay : 9.5/10
  The reason Burnout Paradise stands out for me is that the developers decided this when they made 
 this game. "Okay, you don't feel like racing all the time? Here's some cool crap to do on the side" 
 From the discoverable jumps, breakable barriers and billboards, race events, sheer size of the 
 map, and completely gorgeous crashes, this game is almost perfect. I love how you have to take 
 down cars to add them to your collection. It really makes you jumpy trying to catch these cars. 
 Once you get them into a wall, you feel so good. 
  
  Replay value : 8/10
  
  Overall : 9/10
  
  The game feels getting repeating a bit, but that's no big deal. Afterall 
 burnout paradise has made me a newly converted racing genre fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackfnBurton
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Full disclosure - I haven't owned a console since Bill Clinton had brown hair so you could hardly 
 call me a connoisseur of arcade style games. However, I do enjoy a good racer and it is nice to 
 have an enjoyable alternative to the increasingly stale NFS universe. 
  
  That said, it was immediately clear to me that while Burnout Paradise is intended to be fun for 
 all ages, it is clearly meant to appeal visually to the younger crowd. 
  
  The bland pop lite soundtrack and lukewarm DJ make for a very generic Disney Channel feel and made 
 me tend to turn the music down. And don't play this game if you're epileptic OR have an attention 
 span longer than a fruit fly. 
  
  At all possible moments you can see perhaps only a third of the screen as every other inch of real 
 estate on your monitor is filled with constantly jumping, bouncing, spinning and blinking graphics 
 - it's like someone made a bag of Skittles into a game. 
  
  Although I got used to it II personally found it distracting - but as I implied this may be because 
 I am over the age of twelve and therefore find most obnoxious things OBNOXIOUS, rather than entertaining 
 and amusing. 
  
  But on the whole I can't deny - after an afternoon of high precision fragging in UT3, brain busting 
 strategy in Total War or problem-solving/combat in Fallout 3 you need a break. It is nice to turn 
 it all off for a while and drive around a high res, candy colored cityscape catching mad air off 
 ramps, crashing onto people and reveling in the Super Mario kart physics of a fast paced arcade 
 racer. 
  
  Obnoxiousness aside, Burnout Paradise is undeniably fun, albeit for short periods of time. After 
 a few hours it begins to feel pointless even for a video game so I am not certain whether I simply 
 need to spend more time with it or whether this is due to the fact that there really isn't much 
 going on under the surface. 
  
  It is fun to play, I just can't decide if it's enough fun to OWN, and play repeatedly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goppizzi
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 6:25 am PT
Review:  this game has a big quote of fun, it's similar as gta in a free bike mode. Of course crashes are 
 amazing specially on cars. I would like to see the bike drivers flying once you got a big crash 
 again another cars or walls , you know. Graphics are amazing special when the rain come out. I 
 would like to congrats the excellent job the made regarding the bike sounds they are so real, my 
 god, just check when you're riding into a tunnel, it's amazing. The speed feeling it's also one 
 of the most important challenges of the company and they really made it. The speed feeling it's 
 amazing specially on bikes. I got something to add talking in other sense, I sense of no patient 
 .. jajajajaj yes, I did not unlock another bike yet, I got only two bikes in the game, and I think 
 that those bike are there for default. I still don't know this, but it doesn't matter because the 
 game it's really funny and I'm waiting for it for the play station 3 console. In the play station 
 3 or any xbox 360, you'll be able to see the full game with full details, I'm playing the game 
 in my laptop with minimum set up graphics and sound details, I cannot imagine how fun and detailed 
 would be the game in a 3rd generation console game. 
  My review, totally recommended. Buy this game , online mode it's very funny also specially for 
 the guys who like to crash other gamers in real race games. 
  
  Regards
  Gustavo 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaDaStar
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 9:17 am PT
Review:  This is the type of racing game that I've been waiting for. I keep hoping to hear about a Need 
 for Speed game that is as fun as they used to be, without technical issues. I loved Most Wanted, 
 but there's no native widescreen support, and I got tired of constantly evading the police. I've 
 been playing this almost non-stop (except for work of course) for three days. Great sense of speed 
 while whipping through the country side, and the collision slo-mo effect is still pretty cool to 
 watch. (Just wish I didn't get to see it as often.) The most satisfying element is to chase down 
 the occasional car between races to obtain the new ride. As I drove along smashing through billboards 
 and gates, I actually said out loud, "There he is!" and chased the car down and ran him off the 
 road. I don't know how long this ride will last, but I have another 15 events to win before I get 
 my Class A license, so it's going to be a little while longer anyway. Having alot of fun with this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saadmalik95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 10:47 am PT
Review:  Another Burnout experience that you are bound to remember for a long long time. 
  
  Burnout Paradise The Ultimate Box has exactly the right ingredients that you need in an electrifying 
 and addictive racer. Just like the previous versions there is nothing complicated or boring its 
 just pure fun with a car. The elaborate crashes and highly responsive controls make this a treat 
 to play. Who would have thought driving like a lunatic would be so much fun. The amazing adrenalin 
 boosting jumps and crashes that you are fed make you roam around the large Paradise City hungry 
 for more. The huge variety of cars and races you get to do are simply mind-boggling. And even if 
 there is any complicated stuff then it is given to us in a very un-complicated way. The only little 
 thing that I found wrong was that most of the stuff is predictable. 
  
  Predictable or not this is best car racing game that you can currently buy and I expect it will 
 stay this way for quite some time. Unsurprisingly it dominates most of the new games in the NFS 
 series. So if you like any type of wheels then this is definitely the best game to buy. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 2:25 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is the Worst Game in the Burnout Series. Is it a bad game then?
  
  No, but but previous burnout games are one of the Best Racing games. So i can call this my least 
 favorite game in the franchise.
  
  Its pretty understandable. Nothing wrong with these next gen games. But i can recall many great 
 Franchises on the last gen which all have disappointed in the next gen due to some petty reason 
 or the other.
  
  It is a fact that Most of the gamers are nostalgic and pretty dogmatic when it comes to their favorite 
 last gen games. And the expectation is so high that it is bound to kill the next gen games no matter 
 how great they may be.
  
  I have my own respect for the NFS franchise and it deserves its own league. But the recent NFS 
 games have been too abysmal to even deserve an above 5 rating.
  
  Ok. Back to the Main Review. My sincere apologies for the long but true rubbish that i have written 
 above.
  
  So, Burnout Paradise or simply Burnout 5 is the 5th installment after 1, Dominator, Takedown and 
 Revenge.
  
  The first STRIKING feature of this game is the Graphics. Easily beats so many games and also i 
 believe in the league of the so called "Best Graphic" game called Crysis. Whenever you crash a 
 slow animation plays showing the Dent bending carefully. Glasses slowly shattering and smoke and 
 other debris coming through. Amazing isn't it?
  
  Yes. But the thing that makes this title the least Best in the series is the Disappointing gameplay. 
 Don't take me wrong. People like some of my friends who have played only NFS Carbon, Prostreet 
 or Undercover will absolutely adore the game. And there is no denying the fact that this game simply 
 mows down the Next Gen games of the NFS Franchise.
  
  But this game gets Mowed down by its own fathers. Because this game has very limited and i agree 
 with many reviews here that it has Repetitive gameplay.
  
  You have 5 modes. The Race Mode is a usual feature. But unlike the previous games, there is way 
 too much racing which is either too easy or frustratingly impossible due to the dented roads.
 
  
  Then there is this Burnout Route Mode. You are alone and have to go from point A to B in some minutes. 
 YAWN!
  
  The best mode that has held this Franchise high and mighty is the Takedown Mode known in this game 
 as Road Rage. Yeah the road rage is fun. But again you don't see cars flying that much as in previous 
 games. Also the scenes get very repetitive and there is no Signature Takedown!!! WTF?
  
  There are few good types like Grinding, Vertical, T-Bone, Revenge takedown.
  
  Then there is 
 a new mode called Marked Man. About 2 to 4 cars chase you and try to take you down and turn your 
 car into garbage wreck before you reach from point A to point B.
  
  The stunt run is the Worst Mode IMO and the least fun. No need to describe as the name says it 
 all. Stupid Barrel rolls, Jumps etc.
  
  Alrite, i had mentioned 2 to 4 cars in Marked Man. Yes this is the difficulty that increases as 
 you level up in your license.
  
  You begin with the Learner's License and go all the way through C, B, A, Burnout and the ultimate 
 license called the Elite License.
  
  The no of events needed to win increase as your license increases. The elite one requires 118 wins. 
 Damn! Gets too repetitive in the end.
  
  And yes. One of the Greatest modes of all time Crash Mode is replaced by a silly Showtime mode 
 where your car becomes a Ball and you have to bounce it over other cars to get points. How Obtuse!!
 
  
  Then there is this Road Rules which automatically begin in every road. You have to beat these oddly 
 named guys like charista or someone and you rule the road Partly. Yeah you have to do a showtime 
 on the road to totally Rule it.
  
  And there are Bikes introduced. There are only 4 and they do get bored fast.
  
  Mind you there 
 are actually only 35 CARS, only 35 cars in this game multiplied by 2 and you get 70. I multiplied 
 by two as the rest of the 35 are simply the first 35 with some paint jobs and slight variations. 
 Damn how cheap. Yeah ultimate box has extra 5 cars which you have to unlock by breaking billboards 
 and stuffs. Don't bother. So total 75 cars.
  
  The soundtrack in this game as always in Burnout Series is great. GNR Paradise City song is great. 
 But it simply doesn't make any sense when you listen to it and see cars falling from above and 
 crash clumsily. It only makes you.... atleast it made me laugh.
  
  Alright. So this is the Burnout Paradise review. You must be wondering where the 9.0/10 score came 
 from inspite of the ruthless bashing i did about the game.
  
  Yes that's because, i have compared it with the Next gen racing games only. And there is no Next 
 gen Racing game that even comes close to this game.
  
  Burnout Paradise is afterall a Burnout product and is bound to inherit some of its truly great 
 qualities. But the final Next Gen product fails to match its predecessors.
  
  I have played all the Burnout games. The first game was ok. Second game was better.
  
  But 
 takedown was simply the Best Racing game and Revenge offered even more. Thus the standards of this 
 franchise was set so high that even the Best Of Best Next gen racing game could not match it.
 
  
  Revenge, the previous title before Paradise had over 200 different takedown styles, 120 DIFFERENT 
 not same cars and man the crash mode was addicting.
  
  So Burnout Paradise according to me is not the Best In Series. If you are a Burnout Fan do give 
 it a try but don't expect much. Man all they had to do was remaster Takedown or revenge in next 
 gen graphics.
  
  Anyways, people liking Racing games but who have never played Burnout before, this is a MUST PLAY.
 
  
  Hopefully, Burnout 6 gets back those crash modes and stuffs Burnout Fans like me missed in this 
 game.....
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naikori
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2009 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Back in January 22, 2008, EA and Criterion Games released BurnOut: Paradise for the consoles. It 
 turned out to actually be a great sucsess for the series. Then, one year, EA and Criterion released 
 BurnOut Paradise: The Ultimate Box for PC, marking this as the first BurnOut game to make it on 
 the PC. It had everything the 360 and PS3 versions had. Except, you didn't have to download the 
 motorcycles.
  
  Pros and Cons:
  + Open world to drive in.
  + Great amount of Cars.
  + Multiplayer Modes.
  + Road Rules feature keeps you going in the game.
  + The new addition 
 of Motorcycles.
  + Pretty good Soundtrack.
  + Takedowns can be fun.
  + Great Car Physics.
  + Stunts.
  + Leaderboards.
  + Has a Realistic Feel.
  + Lisence.
 
  
  - Constantly hearing an annoying guys voice
  - Really doing the same thing for the entire game.
  - Not a lot of bikes.
  - Entire map can 
 be learned quickly.
  - Bikes cannot be taken down.
  - Free Roam only in the Motorbike parts of Multiplayer.
  - Horrible Menu Interface.
  - Using 
 non-360 Controllers have a little problems.
  - Voice Chat Only.
  - Can get repetitive easly.
  - "Paradise City" by Guns N' Roses always plays first when you start 
 the game.
  
  Once you start the game and enter the Main Menu, you must be asking yourself, "Where's the options?" 
 They are not there, but somewhere. Once you start a new game, your going through a long cut-scene 
 that gives you a look on Paradise City and what you do in the game. It takes about 3-6 minutes. 
 When you see your car, your at a Junkyard. This is where all of your cars are stored. You gain 
 cars in a very unique way. I'll talk about that later.
  
  Your still trying to find out where the Options menu is so you can configure your controls. You 
 hit escape and see a F1 and F2 Symbol. That's how you move around the menu. You finally find the 
 Control Configure menu. That shows how bad the menu Interface is in the game.
  
  The game is in Open World. It may seem like an open world, but you can get from one place to another 
 very quickly. But, the game has a lot of Game Modes. There's Race, Road Rage, Marked Man, Stunt 
 Run, and Burning Route. Race is normal. You have to get from one place to another . It's an Open 
 World, so you can get there any way. Road Rage is pretty simple, Takedown a certain amount of cars 
 before the Time Limit. Each Takedown gives you extra time. Marked Man is new. You have 3-5 Black 
 Cars trying to Takedown your car. Your objective is to make it to a certain place before you car 
 is totally beaten down. Stunt Run is making a certain number of points while doing stunts. Burning 
 Route requires you to have a certain car and to drive from your starting point to another are in 
 the Time Limit Given.
  
  
  I said before that I would talk about the unique ways that you get cars in the game. After a few 
 races, there will be a car that is roaming around the city. Your job is to take it down and once 
 you do, you will see the car getting damaged by your takedown. Then it will be avalible for you 
 in the garage.
  
  There is a lisence in the game. Your able to put your face on the lisence if you have a camera 
 with a USB cord. The main thing that the lisence is there is for you to track what rank you are 
 in. You start from rank E. Then you move up to A. You move up the ranks by winning events.
  
  In the Motorbike Game Modes, there is really only one. Its just burning route. There isn't 
 a lot of Motorcycles, so most of the Burning Routes are avaliable.
  
  In the last Pro I said for the game, it said "+ Has A Realistic Feel." By that, I mean you have 
 a Gas Station and a Repair Center. You don't have Gas. Gas is just called Boost for short. As you 
 drive and chrash, your car will soon need to be repaired. Having that realistic feel is pretty 
 cool.
  
  Throughout the game, you will hear a guy that is taking you through the game. He come in a lot, 
 and most of the time, he will never shut up. It really gets annoying when he just keeps talking 
 and never stops. If you think you have escaped him from Multiplayer, your dead wrong.
  
  Multiplayer is alright for the game. You need to sign up and you either Free Roam, or do one of 
 the Game Modes that are avalible for Online, which are only 2 or 3, not including Free Roam. You 
 have a Leaderboard for the Ranked Matches, which are Ranked Races. As you get high ranked in the 
 races, the higher you go in the Leaderboard.
  
  There is a feature that you can do both On and Offline. It's called Road Rules. What it is is when 
 you enter a street, you hit the Road Rules button and you need to finish the street in a faster 
 time then the User that already had the Fastest Time. That feature will keep you playing for a 
 while longer.
  
  All of this is put into BurnOut Paradise, but it all seems to get old quickly. You only have one 
 game mode for Motorbikes both On and Offline, your really doing the same thing all the time for 
 the game, and Online can get old real quickly. If EA and Criterion did a better job when it came 
 to Motorbikes and the open world, I think this game could have done a little better than what it 
 has given. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LGTX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 7:07 am PT
Review:  The Burnout series have always been one of the most popular racing games on consoles. The last 
 part, Paradise (2008) , has introduced the series to a bucket of next-gen features, like free-roaming, 
 metal deformation and HD graphics. This year, Criterion made a nice surprise by releasing a PC 
 Edition of Paradise, The Ultimate Box.
  
  The Ultimate Box includes recent updates, like playable Bikes and The Party Mode. The latter lets 
 players swap the controller and play in turns, making it an alternative to Split-screen multiplayer 
 or co-op play.
  
  The game is basically made for delivering sheer fun, and unleashing the destructive nature in every 
 gamer. The number of unlockable cars exceed 70 - Although I have to note that all of the cars have 
 their upgraded versions (sometimes even two) which can be unlocked, So the number easily shrinks 
 to a half, but that doesn't make Paradise one bit less engaging. Seeing that the destruction here 
 is merciless, you will find no licensed cars, but the ones present are either very close to some 
 of the real-world stallions or are a part of the developers extraordinary imagination. They are 
 divided into three classes - each of them optimized either for racing, doing tricks or taking down 
 enemies.
  
  The city is formidable in size - and looks like a playground for demolition races. You can enter 
 a race at any time - just stop by a crossroad and hit 2 buttons simultaneously. The missions vary 
 from sheer race completion to taking down a fixed amount of rivals or escaping them. It usually 
 starts the same though - the races are not limited by invisible barriers, so you'll constantly 
 find yourself opening the uncomfortable map and looking for the most optimal route to the finish 
 line. There are also small challenges while free-roaming - like destroying a fixed amount of billboards 
 and barricades.
  
  But when the race itself starts, you'll find yourself lost in impressions. No other game makes 
 the feeling of speed and vulnerability so genuine, so fun. Crashes - another trademark of the series 
 - is also remade from the ground-up, providing some really astonishing scenes when you kiss a fence 
 while speeding at 300 KPH. The metal bends, the glass shatters, wheels and debris fly around - 
 It's just always different. Providing that the developers wanted low age restriction, they had 
 to remove drivers from the cars. And of course, The Showtime system. It's basically a remade Takedown 
 from the previous games - but it plays totally different. Just hit a button, and your car goes 
 pounding forward like a bowling ball, destroying everything in it's path.
  
  The AI is good - aggressive, mostly. But at those speeds the 90% of their outcome depends on sheer 
 luck, so from the beginning the game feels a little bit easy and repeatable. Only after you gain 
 a class-B license and enter an escape mission you'll find yourself struggle.
  
  The graphics - simply not as good as in other games. But that doesn't mean that Paradise produces 
 a bad picture, no - The visuals are still very impressive, and all those Depth of Field and Blur 
 effects make it even more polished, and when it goes to physics, crashes, and framerate issues, 
 Paradise is king. Even on my low-end PC (E4500 with a GF8600GT) , I have maxed-out graphics, excluding 
 ambient occlusion, and don't experience any framerate drops even when it comes to a hundred explosions 
 per second or the same number of physical entities shattering at the same time.
  
  The music, well, just great. The iconic Paradise City from Gun 'n' Roses makes the introduction 
 to the game, and afterwards more hits show up. But the most funny were all those Beethoven and 
 Tchaikovsky classics - surprisingly fitting well on the crazy gameplay. In-game sounds are pretty 
 genuine, all except a really annoying DJ who CONSTANTLY disables the music and talks absolute nonsense.
 
  
  All in all, Burnout: Paradise delivers some of the most adrenaline-filled races in all time. If 
 you are a hardcore fan of racing simulators - pass. But if you're just looking for a few hours 
 of relaxed, but intense (funny how the two elements blend here) gameplay, Paradise is your best 
 bet. A game that perfectly delivered everything it offered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videocowboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Like the title says, this game is the ultimate. The open world racing is a blast to explore, and 
 will not get old any time soon. The one thing I would like to see is more than one game profile. 
 Sharing the game with my brother is okay, but it would be even better if there were at least three 
 profiles to choose from.
  
  Party mode is a huge success. It levels the playing field for every player involved. Trying to 
 smash through billboards faster than anyone else is brilliant!
  
  The open world racing gets a little confusing at times, but the opponents aren't gonna blow you 
 out of the water if you make a wrong turn. Trick racing is also an amazing feature. I could spend 
 hours trying to land the biggest jump possible.
  
  Motorcycles are a cool feature. You can't participate in any events as far as I've seen, which 
 is a bummer, but online play probably takes care of that. Playing Evil Knievel is a riot!
  
  I would not hesitate to buy this game. You will love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nero96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 8:26 am PT
Review:  This game is the best racing console transported pc game ever. Unlike nfs you wont get bored playing 
 this game. This game has lots of varieties of cars and even bikes too. Graphics is much much better 
 than any racing game released out. If u liked nfs undercover a lot then this game will not disappoint. This 
 game is also freeroaming kinda game. Only problem is you can not get out of the car.
  
  The controls are great too. Or maybe if you dont like it you can change it too. It is easy in keyboard 
 and in joypad. I cant wait forr burnout paradise 2. This game is just plain fun and also much easier 
 to play. So buy this game. Sorry for the silly posts above but the game sure is amazingy cool
  
  Graphics:9.5/10
  Controls:9/10
  Gameplay:10/10
  This game as compared to other games:9.5/10
 
  Overall:9.5 So buy this game and have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 2:21 am PT
Review:  After the series of NFS failures, EA has come up with a great game at last... 
  
  I never played a burnout before so this box set was a good place to start taking a look at the 
 paradise city... 
  
  First the graphics, the game looks great, although you can not really look at the nice looking 
 buildings or mountains and such, since you speed down the way more than 150 m/h, the graphics are 
 good, the car designs are really good, the game engine is great, when you crash a car, you can 
 see the dents, bumps and glass pieces flying around... I kinda simplified it by saying bumps dents 
 but you will see what I mean if you crash a car in the game...
  
  The game has no story whatsoever, you just race around the city, unlocking events and such... But 
 the nice touch is, there are many achievements you can do... like crashing down paradise city billboards, 
 or executing jumps across bridges... They are plenty and you can do them when you dont race...
 
  
  I really want to talk about the music of the game... Gamespot says that it is lame or boring or 
 bad... But it is awesome, at least for me... the game welcomes you with "Paradise City" byGuns 
 n Roses, there are many rock songs from alice in chains, twisted sister... some hip hop songs too 
 but I am not into it, so suit yourself... The best part is you can listen to some classical music 
 from Mozart, Beethoven or Brahms... Which is great for me.
  
  There are many cars, which I unlocked so little of them, also bikes at your disposal... But the 
 cars have imaginary labels, so dont except lamborghini or Ferrari...
  
  All in all it is a great game if you like racing, or roaming around a good looking city while GnR 
 burning in your ears, try out this wonderful game... I dont play many racing games, the last one 
 was I think NFS underground series, but I even got carried away with it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renato1988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 6:20 am PT
Review:  All people who like to play racing games here comes the best one for pc, and and all who don't 
 like racing so much (like me) will like it because this game has an excellent gameplay, very different 
 from other racing games and plus the fun in burnout series it brings you to RPG race. You can drive 
 the city and look for races , takedown cars to get them and you can just press one button and instantly 
 do a flip and make crash and see how much money your massive crash will cost. Another great new 
 thing in Burnout is a new type of event you can do, it allows you to get points from nitro, jumps, 
 breaking billboards doing flips. These new "race" is probably the best one for me, even with the 
 RPG style the most famous Burnout race Road Rage is still fun and even better you can go for shortcuts 
 and do some crazy takedowns. But that is not all that Burnout Paradise: The Ultimate Box brings 
 it gives you to ride bikes. Its fun because you go so fast like you have never gone and its fun 
 to do stunts with him. Even you can only do Time trial races its still cool to ride a bike. After 
 each car you unlock you can customize it with color and color style but I'm not sure if that is 
 new and some new cars. Great deal when racing or doing Road Rage is you can just ride trough the 
 gas pump or mechanic and get nitro to full or repair your car if you crashed too much.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kro_429
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise isn't any GRID where you spend hours learning how to take turns, it isn't a game 
 where you concern yourself with story or frustrating yourself over an objective. Burnout Paradise 
 is about having fun. Lots of it.
  
  For that goal Criterion executes this perfectly. The graphics are well on par with today's games. 
 The sound works perfectly within the game. I know many others have had issues with the DJ, he never 
 really bothered me that much. The vast amount of randomly strewn objectives can be overwhelming 
 at times, but for the most part they just make sure you're never driving across town racing against 
 others or bashing cars into walls, vans, roadblocks, or other cars. Even with the extreme speeds 
 you reach you always feel like you're in control. 
  
  While it may be a bit easy that's okay. You definitely don't want a game to be too hard, so a little 
 bit on the other side is no big deal. It has its flaws of course, lack of customization options, 
 no LAN play, and many circumstances of confusing courses do bring this game down a bit, but the 
 relaxed tone and feeling of freedom make up for these minor shortcomings. Overall, it's a great 
 game to have if you just want something to relax with once in a while (or even if you want a hardcore 
 game to complete without getting an RPG) . Just don't get it if you have a bad sense of direction 
 ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tony205
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 11:00 pm PT
Review:  After many years, the Burnout series has come to the PC. The Ultimate Box features bikes, a day-night 
 cycle, a party pack mode and new events that are added to the highly addictive gameplay on the 
 PS3 and XBOX 360.
  When you dive right in Paradise City, you realise that there is no story. You just to races, upgrade 
 your licence (from class D to Elite) , unlock new cars and so on. Speaking of cars, there are a total 
 of 75 cars but variations in each will make that number. There aren't many bikes in the game (4 
 bikes) but still they are very fast and fun.
  In the game, there are a total of 5 different racing tipes: Race, Burning Routes, Road Rage, Marked 
 Man and Stunt Run. Races are a standard point A to point B race, Burning Routes is like a time 
 trial event, Road Rage will have you to complete takedowns targets, in Marked Man other cars try 
 to send yours to the Junk Yard and in Stunt Run you have to do barel rolls and jumps to keep your 
 combo going.
  A new feature in this game is Party Pack mode. Here you can play offline up to 8 friends in 3 different 
 styles: skill, stunt and race. These minigames are tons of fun and very, very cool. Also a new 
 feature is the day-night cycle, so you would not do only day time races.
  Music is great, with rock and electronic music and the DJ isn't that annoyng. The crash mode that 
 you were familiar with is gone but it's been replaced with Showtime.
  Story: -
  Design: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Fun: 10
  Multyplayer: 10
  Burnout Paradise The Ultimate Box: 
 a game that will give you months work and it's a must have for any racing and Burnout fan.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soadforever1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 2:56 pm PT
Review:  First of all the most positive thing i find in this game is that it comes to pc too ,making all 
 pc gamers HAPPY :) It's the best crash game i have ever seen. Using slow motion is really successful 
 to make you say WOW!!!!!! Taking out other drivers while racing is for me the best part of this 
 game. It's just MAGNIFICENT. The motorbikes go really fast. The players heart is beating loudly while 
 driving a motorbike, as he is afraid that he will crash.
  
  Jumping from cliffs and crashing bars is also something impressive in this game.
  
  The graphics 
 are brilliant, the crashes are realistic and the game play is superb.
  
  But i noticed 2 things that i consider negative in burnout.
  1) The car crashes too easily. This 
 is really annoying sometimes especially when you are about to win and the car crashes.
  2) Sometimes the vehicles crash without even touching the target. This happens when you try to avoid 
 an object by going right or left. Then your car crashes even if you avoided the object. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bozzy-is-3
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2009 7:17 pm PT
Review:  as many reviews agree, if u want a good freestyle racing game burnout paradise is the game for 
 you. total freedom to explore, crash, jump and spin as you will whenever you want makes this fun 
 and unstressful.
  
  hate games where u crash once and u have to restart the race? burnout paradise isnt like this. 
 hate games that are "free roaming" but not and have to use a menu to start races or stuck to one 
 path in races? burnout paradise does none of these either it is absolutely brilliant and doesnt 
 get boring easy. It also has plenty of replay value
  
  not many negative issues with the game apart from some turns can be hard to impossible to make 
 properly but it happens... great game tops all other racing games about in my opinion
  
  want a new, fun and unstressful racing game. get burnout paradise. 10/10 BRILLIANT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuildsmanCoren
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2009 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm aware that racing games are almost by definition "all flash, no substance", but it's always 
 disappointing when the coolness factor wears off and you're confronted with the cold hard facts.
 
  
  As far as arcade racing games go, Burnout is pretty darn awesome. Great fun to play, looks great, 
 runs great, varied, neat soundtrack, nice cars... It's pretty damn satisfying to push other cars 
 into walls and watch them crash and burn, and jumping off ramps and doing other insane stunts is 
 loads of fun, but after the first ten hours or so the shininess of it all starts wearing off and 
 you're left with the usual repetitiveness and shallowness.
  
  Burnout Paradise is definitely recommended to anyone who likes arcade racing games. Those who swear 
 by realistic driving games should probably stay away. For the rest of us, it depends on the price. 
 I personally spent 30 on Burnout Paradise and I must say I regret it somewhat, I would have felt 
 better had I waited until the game showed up in the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: retroman77
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2009 10:11 am PT
Review:  I had played all burnout games but only on PS, now 
  finally i can play it on my PC and its great. It is no simulation
  u just wreck cars and it so 
 relaxing so a gave game perfect 
  10, what u expect u get in the game, after hard driving simulation 
  i like to play this is just 
 relaxing i pure fun. This game I recommend 
  to everyone, especially to those who never played and for those
  ho never even heard for the Burnout 
 game series and i believe there are
  only few people in game community whit those qualifications.
  I don't want to talk about the 
 game itself, cause after few minutes
  of playing you are hooked to your screen and every crash is more 
  spectacular then the previous 
 one and before u know it you 
  already spent at least couple of hours playing, which i believe, the
  ultimate car crashing game 
 ever.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: longtimegamerr
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2009 10:23 am PT
Review:  Like many here, I'm a fan of the burnout games, and arcade racers in general. For everything Criterion 
 does exceedingly well in this game, there's a few other things that they flubbed.
  
  The games looks beautiful and runs at a nice clip even if there's more brown and gray colors in 
 the landscape that I would like. But the lack of color is a minor point when everything is flying, 
 so not a big deal.
  
  More serious is the lack of a real "crash" segement. Now you can crash anywhere you want, but you'll 
 quickly grow bored of it. Its too easy and there's little variety in what you can do when crashing.
 
  
  Even more serious is the "open-world" concept. Its sounds great in theory but the execution needed 
 some work. Many of the races and events are on the East side of the map. In the mountains in the 
 West, there are far fewer events. So, enjoy driving down from the mountains after you have exhausted 
 the few events available to you in the West part of the map. Its a drag and Criterion should have 
 known better. It doesnt help that there are only about 9 starting points for car races on the entire 
 map (!) so the open-world has some delimitations that work against the idea that one can "race 
 anywhere."
  
  Finally, the single player game is too easy. Other than the "burning route" events which are timed, 
 most events are too easily beat. You'll have a B class license in no time. There's a notable lack 
 of challenge in this game.
  
  Yes its a fun game but for an open world game it has a short shelf life, for me at least. Crierion 
 makes great games but this one is not their best. I'd rate Paradise just above Burnout 1 and below 
 all of the other Burnout games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryble85
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2009 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong... this is a good game.... fun and addictive....
  nice cars and graphics... and i did not find the DJ annoying..
  
  BUT it starts to gets frustrating 
 and annoying after you get the A class license..
  thats when the road traffic get ridiculously busy.... and every 20sec of driving u will be crashing 
 into cars on the road where it is almost impossible to dodge...
  this spoils the gameplay A LOT....
  i manage to clear class A license.. but... not really willing 
 and happy to compete for the elite license...
  
  just hope they will balance the game a little bit..
  at least for race and stunt event... lower 
 the traffic!!!!
  if not wat is the point for giving us very fast car but u cant RACE with it...
  
  overall.. i 
 have to say this is the next great driving game after GRID...
  I was thinking y EA can make this game so great but failed to import this technology to their NFS 
 series... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Absinthe-abuser
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 15, 2009 7:37 am PT
Review:  Graphics look like from the 2006 Game Flatout 2 with some Realtime-Shadows and better Car-Models. 
 The City and the Event-System is almost the same like in NFS Most Wanted... and the Driving-Physics 
 are like Mario-Kart...
  
                                    
  Sure this Game is Fun 
 at first... the Events are easy, crashing looks cool...
  
  But after some while i just got pissed off by the annoying Soundtrack (now turned Music to 0) , 
 the stupid DJ-Atomica, the Nerve-Killing Pop-Ups an the ugly beeping Timer which activates everytime 
 you enter a Street...
  The Hud and the Fonts are much too big (maybe suitable for Low-Res TVs and Consoles...) and so 
 are the Pop-Ups which appear everytime u are at the End of a street and with the Hud you will only 
 see 1/3 of the Screen...
  
  Also this Game gets pretty Hard after Driving-License B. Especially in Stunt Mode (i need 300 000 
 Points to win one)
  
  Next thing which was fun at first, is the Slowmo-Crashcam...
  But after some hours of playing this just sucks. And u cant turn it off...
  Drive, Crash, Watch 
 the Slowmo... Drive, Crash, Watch the Slowmo... Drive, Crash, Watch the Slowmo... 
  
                                    
  The Graphics are nothing 
 special even with SSAO (Screen Space Ambient Occlusion) turned on, this Game still looks like its 
 from 2006... The View-Distance of the Realtime-Shadows is low and the whole City is low on Polys 
 too (except for the Cars) ... Driving- and other Physics (except the Crash-physics) are lame... about 
 10 moveable Objects on the Screen is not really state of the Art...
  Good thing are the Engine-Sounds which are totally authentic.
  
               
                      
  For Game-Techniques which where good about 3 Years ago and the plenty of small annoying Things... 
 only 7.0 from me
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shahm01
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2009 7:33 am PT
Review:  Burnout paradise ultimate box is a super crash game so if you want to destroy every thing you see 
 or don't see while driving so this is the game for you and also it don't need super computer performance 
 to enjoy this game and there is a lot of cars to drive too and a lot of races it just like Flat 
 Out Ultimate Carnage but in streets and the best thing in the whole game is the muiltiplayer so 
 you can crash your friends and race them but for unknowen reason you will leave this game and you 
 will feel like you have enough crashing , enough destroing , enough blowing things up , but that's 
 not the same with Flat out ultimate carnage and that's the reson why this game gets 9,0 and not 
 a golden 10 points . 
  
  thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazerlapd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 10:57 am PT
Review:  The best part of this game is about its wrecking system. In maximum detail and resolution, the 
 game did very well in showing every piece of the wrecking in detail. Besides that, the weather 
 change is really nice. One can setup the time of the game to match with local time, so when play 
 the game at night, the in game environment will be at night. But still the night mode have some 
 flaws whereby the street lights are on, but do not possesses any effect on the road. Those lights 
 are merely useless. The world is designed very well with highways, normal roads, offroads, railways, 
 cliffs, buildings and AI cars. But the game will be better if they have AI bikes in it. Overall, 
 I'll give 9.5/10 for this game and every gamer should have this game in their rack. Play It n Feel 
 It. Paradise City rules! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Direwolf9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 5:58 am PT
Review:  To start with I'll say that I've never played any previous Burnout games. I've never owned them 
 and as such never enjoyed or not enjoyed them.
  
  I bought this on a whim, I was after a good arcade style racing game along the lines of Flatout 
 and Need For Speed and I can safely say I've never enjoyed a racing game as much.
  
  First off, the looks. Even with my mediocre graphics card (An 8500GT with 1Gb of memory) it looks 
 good and runs great even with AA cranked up a bit with the only slow down at the car selction screen, 
 the car takes several seconds to drop when the crash is heard. 
  
  There's no noticable pop up, the crashes are nice and satisfing and so far the only problem I've 
 had with the looks is the lack of driver.
  
  Sound wise, nothing special. The crashes are nice and noisy and the engines loud and rumbely. (Is 
 rumbley a word?) I've not listened to the music outside of game startup since I always listen to 
 a CD. The DJ and news reported are irritating though.
  
  Gameplay. Nothing to complain about, there's plenty to do. It's like NFS: Carbon during the day 
 and with more to do. It's like Test Drive Unlimited without the flaws. It's like Flatout without 
 the occasional bout of anger.
  
  Between races I've just spent time roaming, finding billboards, smashes and jumps and just trying 
 to beat times and showtime scores.
  
  I am literally having lots of fun, I'm currently downloading FEAR2 from Steam and I'm not sure 
 I'm going to be playing for more than an hour at a time before Burnout drags me back, kicking and 
 screaming.
  
  And I've not even started playing with the bikes.
  
  And to think I bought it on impulse.
  
  Only things i don't like? The jumping through hoops 
 to get it to run without crashing to destop everytime the intro starts. Fixed it soon enough though.
 
  
  If you like Need For Speed, Test Drive Unlimited, Flatout and like seeing cars tumbling down the 
 road shedding parts, this is well recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilyry
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 7:15 am PT
Review:  I've played this on the Xbox 360, and held off for the PC version. Understand that I am NOT a car/racing 
 fan. They all seem the same. Race here, race there, get a good time score, rinse and repeat. The 
 difference with Burnout Paradise is that you're encouraged to crash, and crash again. The physics 
 and car damage is amazingly accurate, and the slow/stop time crash sequence is jaw dropping. I've 
 been playing this version online with 8 friends, and hours go by in a breeze. The only thing keeping 
 me from giving this game a higher score are two frustrating issues. #1 being the menu system is 
 a nightmare to navigate. Figuring out how to quit and save a game took me hours. (For those of 
 you still trying to figure it out hit Escape, then F2, then F2 again) . The interface seems like 
 it was thrown together in the late 90's. #2 being that there are some features yet to be implemented. 
 Such as being able to add friends to your friend list, track their whereabouts online, and join 
 their games. (This is supposedly in beta and will be added "soon") . Once you get past the nuances 
 of menu navigation, you'll soon be crashing up and storm and will forget they exist. That is, until 
 you try to exit the game or try to join somebody else's. Great package, great deal, I highly recommend 
 for some quick wrecking, high speed fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpiritofheavN
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2009 11:51 pm PT
Review:  what a kick ass game!!!... I really liked the city's design..... Free roaming is nice... great visuals 
 as well as sound that matches it rightfully...... great gameplay ... even though it would have been 
 nice if they added the gps..... coz I know I have been lost too many times during races..... Freedom 
 of roaming is not always as well as it sounds... but overall this game has definitely proven its 
 worth...... What can I say this game is definitely a RIP-OFF literally....
  this game has complete package of multiplayer and single player gaming...
  Definitely the crashes-take 
 downs-stunts-high flying-fast and furious action packed racing is bound to draw attention of the 
 gamers and fans of this franchise. . .
  This is a game which u cant and when i say cant I definitely mean u can't afford to miss. . . 
 
  happy Gaming dudes and fellow gamers. . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teron678
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2009 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This is the 1st driving game for PC I've enjoyed playing since NFS MW ... I'm surprised there wasn't 
 much talk about it prior to it's release ... Guess Criterion Games didn't want to end up in the 
 same group as the previous EA Driving games especially the NFS Franchise .. They always over hype 
 & exaggerate about NFS Franchise games so much .. which always leads to disappointment/ bad reviews 
 ..... 
  
  Anyways Here's What I Love about the Game:
  * Highly Optimized Port for PC ... a major improvement from the Driving Games I've played over 
 the past 2 years .. especially NFS Undercover
  * Graphics/Sound is Superb 
  * It's a free roaming ...
  *Love the various type of challenges especially the Road Rage Event
 
  *Love the whole assortments of Stunts available ... they're everywhere u turn ...
  *Love the Slow Motion Crash Scene ... it's very realistic ... LOL
  
  Things I don't like about 
 Burnout:
  * Mini Map is hard to read .... kinda seems it it inverted ....
  * In the Race Event ... wish it was like NFS ... with arrows directing the route to take .. I having 
 difficult reading the Mini Map, results in me always driving the wrong way resulting in me having 
 to restart the race .. i guess I'll get use to it after sometime ...
  * I've discovered the only way to restart a race currently in progress is by 1st completing it 
 & then heading back to the mark to restart it ... this is kinda time-consuming ...
  
  All in All Burnout Paradise City is a Great Driving Game .... hope to see future releases from 
 this Franchise on PC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuniorTkD
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2009 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise - The Ultimate Box,  o primeiro da srie "Burnout" a vir para o PC. Uma tima 
 notcia, diga-se de passagem. Um jogo que traz, literalmente, um paraso a quem decidir ingressar 
 nesse mundo.
  
  Com grficos simplesmente lindos, efeitos totalmente bem elaborados e velocidade extrema, Burnout 
 mostra que a concorrncia deve tem-lo.
  
  Os Prs:
  
  Um Mapa aberto - Explore a cidade o quanto quizer, procurando por novos atalhos, desafios de saltos, 
 e os diferentes modos de corrida (tais como ir a um ponto a outro da cidade, sendo perseguido por 
 carros que tentam te atrapalhar/destruir, e corridas de tempo, entre outros ) .
  
  Efeitos "Slow Motion" - Bater no ser simplesmente se chocar contra um objeto, ou parede. Se estiver 
 em determinada velocidade e se chocar contra um carro, por exemplo, segundos antes uma cmera alternativa 
 lhe proporcionar uma viso diferente e "devagar" de todo o estrago que seu carro sofre. O modo 
 como a carroceria se contorce  bem detalhado.
  
  No compre, quebre! - Os carros que voc ir adquirir durante o jogo no sero comprados. Quando 
 forem desbloqueados, voc ser avisado e eles comearam a circular por Paradise City. Para adquiri-los, 
 basta faz-los bater, e assim, ficaram disponveis em seu ferro velho (podendo concerta-los mais 
 tarde) .
  
  Os Contra:
  
  Carros Fantasmas? - O que aconteceu com os motoristas em Burnout Paradise? Os carros so de controle 
 remoto? Francamente. Um jogo to avanado, com uma temtica to inteligente e envolvente, no poderia 
 ter cometido uma falha to besta e amadora. Ponto negativo pra Creterion Games!
  
  Trilha Sonora Sofrvel - Em alguns momentos, chega a tocar msica classica na rdio. No sei vocs, 
 mas eu no me sinto "estimulado" ouvindo Shopin enquanto dirijo um carro a 300km/h () . Nesse 
 ponto, Burnout deveria seguir o exemplo de Flatout (franquia rival) , que em cada verso da sua 
 srie, traz uma soundtrack simplesmente impecvel.
  
  Concluso:
  
  Burnout Paradise tem suas falhas sim, mas nada que faa no valer a pena jogar este emocionante 
 jogo de corrida. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serious_Spam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I am very glad that EA decided to port this game over to the PC. The PC is my #1 gaming platform 
 and I wouldnt change that for the world. I mainly play FPS and such so when my brother bought a 
 Ps3 and showed me Paradise City I thought, damn now I have to go buy a Ps3 to get this cool game. 
 
  
  It just wasnt going to happen, I could not justify buying a Ps3 for one game (I know it has more 
 cool games) and the xbox that I bought years ago for the same reason I barely used then and dont 
 anymore now. 
  
  Now I will say that there are certain games that are more suited for the console (like racing) 
 but to be able to have the chance to play this game on the PC is just awesome.
  
  The game plays very well on my system with good frame rate (everything maxed) and looks just as 
 gorgeous as it does on the Ps3.
  
  Win XP
  Core2 duo @ 2.33GHz
  2G ram
  Geforce 8800gts rez @ 1680x1050 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jelly76
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 7:15 pm PT
Review:  So far its been a pretty crap year for PC gaming, Im not going to list all the flops..... you know 
 what they are. Port after port with either broken controls, broken graphic optimization or just.... broken 
 o_O
  
  I played BP to death on the PS3 and I can honestly say, its actually BETTER on the pc :) especially 
 in its new 'Ultimate Box' guise.
  
  SLI support, (but it runs great without too) , HDR & AA, oh yes you read that right, this game has 
 a truly fantastic sense of speed, and with the PC edition (and also on PS3 via update) you can 
 now restart a single player failed event, this was a big problem with the original release, meaning 
 you had to drive neadlessly for ages to get back to an event you had already tried..... sorted. 
 Ive heard people reporting that you CANT restart events, YOU CAN, either read your manual, get 
 the update (1.0.0.1) or stop downloading Pirated software people!! You restart an event from your 
 EASYDRIVE menu.
  
  The 'need to know' list is :
  
  Graphics 9/10 Better than the console version, and I really do mean that.
  
  Sound 7/10 Does 
 the job, great engine sounds, repetitive music tracks (the customize with your own music option 
 seems to be missing in the PC version)
  
  Controls 9/10 OMG! A game that supports my generic gamepad & my G25 fully o_O Playing this game 
 with a wheel takes some experiment and getting used to, but seems the better option in the long 
 run for me personally
  
  Summary : If you liked the look of the console version but didnt get it, getting the PC version 
 of Burnout Paradise is truly a NO-BRAINER, this is the first correctly ported game of 2009, and 
 Criterion, even as I speak, are still realising new content (incidently the PARTY PACK for BP costs 
 7.99 for PS3, I was pleasently surprised to see that it is included in the PC version)
  
  Well done Criterion, finally a release that PC gamers dont have to hide in case someone sees it 
 when they call round for a beer :)
  I havent been this pleasently surprise since GR! D.
  
  Overall (from me) a very very solid 9/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameForLife
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 6:35 am PT
Review:  This is the funnest racing game in a long time. Total freedom to explore a huge city and with enough 
 missions to keep it interesting. The cars are fun to acquire and they sound awesome. No matter 
 how you like to drive (speeder, smasher, stuntman, or explorer) this game has it all. The only 
 downside is that it crashes occasionally. I've updated drivers and that helped but it still crashes 
 every 5-6 hours. Other gripes include the long menu and title screen wait on launch. When I start 
 a game I just want to get into it. This game takes 3-4 minutes just to get into a car and start 
 driving!
  
  I've played close to twenty hours and have a class B license. I've tried the motorcycles; while 
 they are fast. they are hard to control. I like how the map resets itself after you earn the next 
 class of license. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 3:42 am PT
Review:  this is my review for the game: BURNOUT PARADISE
  
  lets get started:
  so burnout paradise is an arcade style racing game, its one of the best
  racing games ever (FLATOUT 
 is 1st and after FLATOUT its Burnout) .
  
  the graphics is nice there are games with better graphics but BURNOUT graphics isnt bad.. the visuals 
 effects also great.
  
  the sound are the same as every RACING games.. nothing special, just hear the sounds of the cars 
 in high-speed
  
  so the gameplay is the main and best thing in BURNOUT PARADISE
  the map is nice but even that some reviews says that the map is to big its not true.. i think that 
 the map isnt that big but it has a lot of open room to move with your car in the streets... you 
 have in BURNOUT 6 activites with your car
  RACING, TAKEDOWNS, MARKED MAN, STUNT, and another one..
  everything is fun.. the TAKEDOWNS are the 
 bast racing you have in this game you just smash in other cars and its a lot of fun and alot of 
 action
  also there are some mini cut-scenes that you see when you smash your car or someone car and you 
 see the car flying in the air or just BOOM!!
  in some wall...
  
  like i said its really fun.. the only problems i found in this game are 
  the following things:
 
  
  1. the main menu is broken... when you press ESC you think your gonna see everything like Controles 
 option, VIDEO setting, and SAVE&QUIT
  but no.. press on ESC you will get you personal profile in game and the first times i wanted to 
 quit the game i quit by using TASK MANAGER and one day after that i found out that you need to 
 press F1 twice in order to go to the main-menu of the game
  
  2. the game can be a little repetitive
  
  3. theres no RESTART option, so if you want to start 
 a race all over you need to go all the way to the starting line.. by the time you get to the starting 
 line you will be to tired to continue playing BURNOUT
  
  
  the game have only 3 problems but thats not a reason not playing it..
  the game is great you 
 have speed all the time, lots of jumps, new cool cars that i never seen in other racing games, 
 you have biikes, and if you ask me you should buy that game fast 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssbg
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 8, 2009 9:20 am PT
Review:  I installed Burnout Paradise The Unlimited Box (BPTUB) yesterday. Today I deleted it.
  The good:
  Soundtrack-well, I like it because Guns 'n' Roses and the song Paradise City is classic 
 song. I was surprise that there is a song of Avril.
  A lot of "odd jobs"-Crash Billboards, destroy sings, win cars... this is a big plus for the game.
 
  Menu-Yes, it is something different, it's new. It is good that the game studios show us new ideas
 
  The bad:
  Graphic-well, maybe it is good, but from the trailers I expected more.
  Car models and collusion-Who you car can crash with 300 miles per hour and ... survive? 
  Realism-Yes, 
 yes. This game is arcade, but it must have 1% realism, because if the game isn't real-this is not 
 a game.
  Gameplay-nothing spacial.
  Old games-new games- New are old with better graphic, nothing more.
  
  If you like that types 
 of game, which haven't got sense- Ok. If you are fed up with this types of game-try something alse. 
   ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tropeak20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 11:33 pm PT
Review:  This is the first burnout on pc which is very awesome!!!
  
  Not unlike need for speed undercover so boooring!!!
  
  This game is truely made fun!! Many 
 activities to do. the Cars are very nice too, i really like Driving On Ramps, Smashing on billboards 
 and other Extraordinary activities.. I really Like the Cars are flying when you Drive in ramps... 
 Shutdown the new vehicles and Smashing them to own them.. motorcycles are nice to. but i really 
 like the paradise cars because they have a good handling and really really speed.. I really Like 
 the Cars are flying when you Drive in ramps, Really lot of activities here in burnout... but The 
 Soundtrack are not really cool.. on mmmm... They should choose the nice soundtrack based on the 
 game, Like Highway Star and Born to be wild.. But anyway i like the Soundtrack of Paradise City 
 by; guns and Roses... Visuals are Nice too unlike need for speed undercover which is the roads 
 are too bright you will need sun glasses to play with that game... To compare this game to other 
 racing game, Burnout Rules.... i Really Like this game................ Perfect racing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2009 8:11 pm PT
Review:  This is my first time playing any of the Burnout games. Being a hardcore PC affecionado i really 
 dont play many console titles other than the few random ones while im over at a friends. That said, 
 i was pretty psyched about the game coming out for mouse and keyboard people like me.
  
  As a first impression, I was totally blown away by how fluid the game is both in terms of graphics 
 and gameplay. Extemely crisp, clean, lag-free frames even on the highest video settings. This scores 
 tons of points in my book since I'm really picky when it comes to unoptimised games, especially 
 ones that port over from the consoles. There are just so many of those out there that you really 
 don't bring your hopes up anymore when you're expecting a console game on the PC.
  
  I like the idea of different types of cars for different styles of driving, it gives the game a 
 little spice since a new car doesn't necessarely mean a faster one. Throwing people off road with 
 one of the muscle cars still has to be one of my favourite things to do in the game. It's incredibly 
 useful and fun to do.
  Also thanks to the great crash system. I found myself slamming into that concrete wall at full 
 speed on purpose just to see what would happen, its just so fun to watch. I only wish you could 
 see the driver propelled forward and through the front windshield, now that would be awesome lol
 
  
  But the motorcycles are incredibly well done too. Easy and fun to drive, fast and furious at the 
 same time. Thank god for the wheelies!
  
  Now comes the part that spoiled the game for me.
  
  In my humble opinion, the lack of vehicle 
 customization breaks this game down into not much at all. I mean, you can change the color of your 
 car, sure, but I was really hoping to be able to buy some spoilers, some rims, a special engine, 
 an expensive nos system, some nice tires... thats the point of a racing game like this isnt it? 
 Maybe make the car higher or lower. Have better grip. Nothing really fancy just something to make 
 you say "there... now thats perfect". I dont like earning a premade car, with vinyl, rims, hood, 
 already set up for you. I want to give a car my own style, then ride it at full speed down the 
 highway and hit that jump at 16821 miles an hour. However I gotta say the cars are all amazingly 
 unique so the fun factor is still there. I just think it would be so much better if they went that 
 extra length.
  
  A game like Need for Speed has the customization factor, but it really lacks when you look at it 
 in terms of crashes. It also gets amazingly repetitive even considering the different races you 
 can do. Burnout Paradise seems to never really get frustrating since you can always just drive 
 around and kill yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthassv
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2009 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Este juego le pateo el trasero a todos los demas juegos de carrera. En espeacil a Need for speed, 
 que en realidad con el paso de los aos se ha convertido en un juego malisimo, cada version empeora. 
 
  
  Ojala que no cometan el mismo error los desarrolladores de burnout. 
  
  Desde que jugue need for speed 3 por primera vez hace 10 aos ningun juego de carreras me habia 
 gustado tanto. Los modos de juego como el de Showtime es innovador, los graficos son geniales, 
 utilizar las motos le da un toque aun mas divertido.
  
  Creo que el juego en realidad cumple con el objetivo principal: divertir a los usuarios. 
  
 
  Yo como fiel jugador de PC espero que juegos de la misma calidad de burnout puedan aparecer en 
 PC. Ya lo hizo tambien devil may cry con buenos resultados. 
  
  Espero que saquen mas versiones pronto, porque se convertira en un clasico definitivamente. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vortex_gw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 11:25 am PT
Review:  If you are lazy to read just know this, THE GAME IS AWESOME!
  I have heard so many good things about the Burnout games for a long time and now finally the PC 
 gamers can enjoy the crazy driving, high speed chases and the carnage that only Criterion games 
 can deliver. This game is the original Buronout Paradise which came out an year ago on the PS3 
 and Xbox 360. As the months passed Criterion released DLC (motorbikes) and I don't know what else 
 and now "The Ultimate Box" is a compilation of all. There will be one last (free) update post-release. 
 The first thing you might notice is that the menu is not what PC racing games usually have and 
 it's little confusing at first because you have to press F1 or F2 to find the menus where you can 
 change the controls, sound, video, etc. But this is a minor setback because the game keeps all 
 kinds of statistics, statistics we expect to see and some what are new like "air time" which shows 
 the longest time your car was in the air.
  
  The graphics are great and the frame rate is rock solid. The Paradise city is just awesome. Extremely 
 well designed and you can't even imagine how many short-cuts and hidden areas there are. There 
 are all kinds of locations: enormous steel bridge, tunnels, harbor, wind mill, mountain locals 
 and many more. I have made so awesome jumps that I sh*t my pants (not literally) , it was such an 
 experience. You can jump over house, go through billboards, all kinds of barriers, etc. There is 
 also a stage show or something in which you have to damage as much cars, buses, ect. as you can 
 before the time is up. By pressing space you can roll you car and make it rolls in different directions 
 to damage passing cars and other vehicles. There is day-night cycle, fog but I haven't seen rain, 
 yet. Weird
  
  There are several type of races: race, marked man (in which you have to arrive at certain local 
 without being damaged seriously) , road rage (smashing other player's cars baby) , stunt run ( in 
 which you have to do barrel rolls, all kinds of jumps like super jump, go through billboards, 360 
 vertical spins, drift, ect. to rank up the points. All the challenges are fun to play against the 
 AI but online it's one hell of a ride. It's AWESOME! There are also bikes. You can do different 
 challenges when you are driving a bike. The motor sound is just mind blowing. I love to ride around 
 the city with high speed. Driving around makes me have a need for speed, I can tell you, the bikes 
 and the speed cars reach so high speeds that it's a pity that there isn't a speed meter (or at 
 least I didn't see or find one) .
  
  Your overall goal is to become an elite driver. After doing a certain number of challenges your 
 licence is upgraded ( E, D, C, B, A) . I have played more than 10 hours and I have so many things 
 to do and I haven't played much with the bikes. It's is very important to learn all roads, turns, 
 etc. because when you race you only have a start and end point, you can take any road to reach 
 the finish line. It's awesome that way because sometimes I'm coming with high speed from say north 
 and other car is coming from south and we drive to the same point. We could even crash head on 
 if we are close enough to the finish line. The game also has outstanding presentation.
  
  I'm probably missing many other things to say but this is a game you have to experience for yourself. 
 Yeah, it's so good.
  
  The game is a blast to play and we can just expect even more cool DLC from Criterion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: begoore
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2009 1:45 am PT
Review:  Most of the recent releases for PC have all had a lot of issues.... like crapy frame rates...... 
 bad porting...... etc...... But this game has absolutely no issues at all...... its runs like a 
 dream..... no lock ups... no frame rate issues... nothing.... thats just pleasing.....
  
  The game has a very cool, functional n user freindly gameplay..... I just loved the game's physics 
 engine..... its just flawless...... Cars are great to drive.....
  The city is colourfull, perfecty designed, beautifull, Neither to big neither too small, its Just 
 PARADISE............ 
  
  All the racing styles are cool...... N not to mention lota fun....... Hope EA learns some lessons 
 form this release of theirs n puts them to good use in the next NFS.............
  
  Every PC gamer must try this game..... it will grow on u....... im sure u will not be disappointed...... 
 its the very first BURNOUT for PC...... N damn what a game it is........
  
  If u let this one pass..... re think ur opinion....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pollob13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I got this game on 3rd February. Just simply I will say awesome. I think EA should continue this 
 game on pc since its another racing game NFS is falling down day by day. The graphics looks great. 
 Gameplay looks very friendly. Although the default control system looks odd and I cant find the 
 joystick setup. The most interesting part is motorcycle riding. This feature just gave the unique 
 feeling.
  Although as far as I played i cant find any bike racing. Bike racing should be there I think.
 
  The racing features are awesome. The most enjoyable part is takedown. No driver looks odd. The 
 city is quite small to explore but fun to ride. Stunt is unique. The optimization proved that it 
 deserves pc version. I am getting FPS 45-55 on 8600GT.
  Criterion just gave the racing gamer what actually should be. Thanks to them for developing such 
 a great game.
  I am very happy about this game after just got shocked from NFS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidy333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 3:15 pm PT
Review:  With every other developer and publisher giving PC gaming a secondary preference.. prominent examples 
 like GTA 4 and Saints Row 2. Although I haven't played SR2 but from GS's review itself it seems 
 like a bad port. Thank you Criterion for honoring PCs with what they can do when compared with 
 their console counterparts. This is the same great burnout experience that consoles have enjoyed 
 all these years. 
  
  Graphics: The game looks absolutely stunning, the crash effects and the environment are all beautifully 
 modeled. I got it all maxed out at 1440x900 (that's the max my monitor can support) with SSAO option 
 enabled on my HD4850. Disabling the option doesn't seem to make a big difference and that's what 
 you should do if your frame rate stutters. (9/10)
  
  Gameplay - These days open world game play rather became a buzz word in gaming. Its just that every 
 game seems to announce that they have got it and they make two routes to go to a checkpoint. But 
 burnout truly has an incredibly packed open world with its crazy style and crashes. You have to 
 travel around the city if you want to race and its incredible fun to smash billboards and doing 
 super jumps when not in race. (10/10)
  
  Sound: The sound effects in game are very good ans truly immerses you into burnout world. And it 
 has got an awesome sound track up on its sleeve. Starting with the title song Paradise City form 
 GunsN'Roses, almost all the songs are great. (10/10)
  
  I am very happy with this game. I haven't yet finished it, its not your average NFS game thatcan 
 be completed in some 5-6 hours. This game is incredible and has got huge replayability. Get this 
 game if you want a good racing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickmaster1101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 9:01 am PT
Review:  Just got the game and I have to say I'm impressed. Visually, the graphics are amazing; audibly, 
 spectacular, as well as everything else. The game runs fine on my 9800GT with room to spare, with 
 all maxed out except for this one option that doesn't really do anything and if you turn it on 
 it turns it into a slide-show. 
  The online functions are pretty good. Not many people playing it but the numbers will increase 
 soon most likely. It works just like the console versions and assuming you have a gamepad. It works 
 fine with my logitech dual-action, assigning all the buttons perfectly from the beginning.
  As for stability, it ran a few hours with no problems whatsoever. I got 1 crash, but I think it's 
 my computer, not the game, so you can most likely count on a flawless experience.
  The burnout series has been fun from game one, and this one by far is the best one, and PC gamers 
 and burnout fans can enjoy it and agree.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarantyno
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 6:57 am PT
Review:  First I want to say I never played the Xbox360 version and I was eager to get the Pc port. But 
 you know how flawed ports can be, especially the latest Rockstar Games release....
  Anyways, this port is........... amazing and flawless! It runs perfectly with 95% of the settings 
 on high, when GTA 4, for example, runs barely on medium.
  Burnout Paradise is a total adrenaline rush for not only the ones who love race games, but for all 
 who need to chill out and have an amasing experience. The graphycs are so realistic and the each 
 car crash is unique and looks totally really. I guess at times I wish they have made people in 
 the cars as well, so we can see some ragdoll-effect fun, but I respect Criterion Games for making 
 a world of vehicles and not humans.
  
  There are tonns of challenges and a great variety of car (and bikes) that will keep you busy in 
 Paradise City , I guarantee it.
  
  Shortly sed this game is freakin awesome!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muumia4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 6:23 am PT
Review:  Hello you all! So i bought the Burnout Paradise for my PC.
  And it is great. There are tons of good things you can do in the game. This game is not recourse 
 killer and if you don't have some kind of gaming computer you can still play the game.
  I really like the web cam option in the game. It makes a picture of your victim when he is wrecked 
 by you. And sometimes the pics can be very funny.
  Of course there are some bad sides about the game.
  There is no speedometer in game.
  The game 
 menu is hard to understand at first place.
  Default key bindings are bad (A is gas and Z is break and so on)
  But the game is good and has 
 more good then bad sides.
  I haven't personally played any game in Burnout series before
  but i like Burnout Paradise.
  So if you like crashing blockaderunning and destruction then this 
 is the game for you.
  
  PS: If there are any problems with my post please contact me!
  This is my first review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xyrhoshi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 7:12 am PT
Review:  Burnout, practically the only racing genre series that I ever really cared for. I remember how 
 gradually improving burnout became as time went on, but they certainly grasped me in awe when I 
 played their latest game Burnout Paradise. The best part is, the PC port is not degraded in any 
 way.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are nicely customizable, and at max settings on 1440x900, the game looks 
 very crisp and jagged-free, lovely car reflections, shadows, environment and all that other junk. 
 Although I never played Burnout Paradise on other consoles, I have compared screenshots and thus 
 believe that the graphics on the PC are even "better" than the consoled versions. (10/10)
  
  Gameplay - Now what is Burnout without their infamous crashing mechanics. Nothing of course. 
 But holy smokes, they have REALLY done a nice job on Burnout Paradise. You are actually allowed 
 to cruise through an open world, crashing into almost anything? Its absolutely fantastic, and kept 
 me entertained for the first few hours. Of course there's also all the other junk such as racing, 
 crashing, time limits and so on. My point is, Burnout Paradise did an exceptional job at making 
 this game damn fun. (10/10)
  
  Sound - Who can forget the notorious EA track that seems to come in all of their racing games? 
 Of course I consider it a lousy excuse for not making some original music work, but regardless 
 they do have some good tracks. And of course, the SFX of all the crashing, explosions, all that 
 junk is superb as always. (8/10)
  
  Fun Factor - This is a question that I have to ask; Who in the world, that loves the racing genre, 
 does NOT love the Burnout series? I feel sorry if you don't, but of course I am only referring 
 to racing fans. But in my opinion, my very sole opinion, I love this game more then any other racing 
 games TO DATE. That is correct, I consider it more fun then Need for Speed: Most Wanted, which 
 is a very bold thing to say indeed. I just can't resist all the crashing, chaos, and explosions. 
 It's like a sandbox toolkit for making your very own Armageddon my friends. But trust me, once 
 you play Burnout Paradise on PC, or whatever other console, you'll know exactly what I mean. (10/10) 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
