-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cabela's Dangerous Hunts
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/cabelasdangeroushunts/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 24, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 6.4, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 110 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Value
Developer: FUN Labs
Genre: Hunting
Date:     Feb 5, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Whether you find Cabela's Dangerous Hunts intense or terribly tedious will probably depend on your 
 hunting knowledge and patience. 

  Here's a hunting game that evens the odds. In Cabela's Dangerous Hunts you won't merely blast Bambi 
 and friends with impunity, but you'll also square off against wolves, grizzlies, rhinos, leopards, 
 and other animals that can kill you in a heartbeat. The game does a great job of startling you 
 with sudden attacks from these beasts, but this isn't really a fast-paced action game. Despite 
 featuring an arcade-style mode, Dangerous Hunts is more of a slow-paced sim. Whether you find it 
 intense or terribly tedious will probably depend on your hunting knowledge and patience.  

          Action zone mode is a bust.     

  The game's main selling point is its diversity. You'll 
 encounter 27 species, ranging from the innocuous whitetail deer to more spectacular and exotic 
 animals, like the polar bear, moose, wild boar, zebra, hyena, and impala. You'll go head-to-head 
 with these animals in 12 different locales scattered across North America and Africa. You'll trek 
 through the wilds of Alaska, British Columbia, Colorado, New Mexico, Tanzania, and Zimbabwe, among 
 others. Each of these regions offers two hunting grounds, and each can be visited during different 
 seasons.  

  You'll encounter unique groups of species as you traipse through snow-covered pine forests, sneak 
 among the brush of the African plains, or wend your way along babbling streams that snake through 
 high mountain passes. Each hunting area is big enough to give you a sense of scope, but it's not 
 so big as to require hours to cross it. In fact, some areas will give you transportation, like 
 a snowmobile, to make movement even easier. That said, most of the maps ultimately boil down to 
 a string of small ravines that conveniently channel you through one narrow lane into another.  
 

  Dangerous Hunts offers three game modes. Action zone pits you against successive waves of charging 
 animals. After you kill all the nearby threats, you head through a glowing green portal to the 
 next area. This mode is lamely repetitive, too short, and too easy. Anyone with a half-decent aim 
 and reflexes should be able to breeze through all of the levels on the hardest difficulty setting 
 in 15 or 20 minutes.  

  Things get better with the simulation-oriented quick hunt mode. Here you get full access to all 
 the hunting areas, game, and gear -- and there's no unlocking required. You can pick a difficulty 
 setting that determines how easily you'll find and lure your prey, in addition to how much damage 
 you can sustain if you're mauled, gored, trampled, or otherwise assaulted. During your hunts, you'll 
 need to obey the laws. Remember, you can only shoot legal game (or other animals purely in self-defense) , 
 lest the game warden send you packing. Oddly, you'll only encounter one animal of the species you're 
 after during each hunt, and it will sometimes be killed by predators before you can get to it, 
 which is frustrating.  

  To find and kill your prey, you'll get to choose from an array of weapons and gear, though you're 
 limited in how much you can carry. Weapons include semiautomatic, bolt-, and lever-action rifles, 
 as well as a few shotguns, revolvers, bows, and knives. You can use different scopes or binoculars 
 to get a bead on your target, though it's hard to adjust their magnifications smoothly. Other gear 
 includes clothing to suit the climate, a map or GPS unit, calls, decoys, lures, and more.  

  Depending on the difficulty setting, hunts can be fairly quick jaunts, or they can be truly tedious, 
 thumb-twiddling affairs. On the easiest setting, your heads-up display points you in the direction 
 of the game in your current area. Then you just need to stalk it and then kill it. On the medium 
 or hard settings, which don't offer that crutch, you can spend an hour wandering around with no 
 sign of your quarry, which is realistic but boring. The animals can be wily, and Dangerous Hunts 
 gives precious little info about effectively using lures and decoys to attract your prey, so you'll 
 just have to experiment, be very patient, and hope for good results. Unlike in the real world, 
 you're not compensated for all the downtime, since you don't get to enjoy nature during the long 
 lulls -- just a relatively pallid copy of it.  

  During your hunts, you'll need to keep an eye on your health, stamina, overall energy level, hydration, 
 and nutrition levels, though most of these only truly come in to play during really long hunts 
 on the hardest difficulty setting. A stealth meter lets you know how well you're hidden, though 
 it's a bit buggy and abstract, if not deceptive. Judging by the meter, at least, all it takes to 
 remain hidden well is to crouch; movement and noise be damned. A wind vane/anemometer on your HUD 
 helps you stay downwind of your quarry, since scent plays a role in remaining undetected.  

  In addition to the action zone and quick hunt modes, Dangerous Hunts offers a career mode. Here 
 you can create a character, edit his or her ability stats, buy and sell equipment, and earn money 
 as you complete charter hunts for a specific type of game (or as you complete narrower goals like 
 killing a certain number of animals in an area with one-shot kills) . As you work your way through 
 this mode, you'll gradually unlock new areas and challenges. You'll also get to visit firing ranges 
 between hunts to test and adjust your firearms. Again, the game assumes too much about your hunting 
 knowledge and neglects to explain how to adjust your weapons properly.  

  While the developers didn't spend enough time on the documentation, they did put real effort into 
 the presentation. The graphics aren't cutting edge, and trees in each area often seem much too 
 uniform, but the visuals look attractive overall and do a solid job of creating the look and feel 
 of varied wild areas. They feature some neat details, like foliage swaying in the breeze, animals' 
 breath steaming in the cold air, and -- best of all -- moving clouds that cast dynamic shadows across 
 the landscape. Seeing the hills and meadows around you temporarily darken and brighten again when 
 the sun peeks out from behind the clouds is a really immersive touch. Passing rainstorms add further 
 realism.  

          Not so fast! It's just a decoy.     

  The audio works even better. We can't vouch for the accuracy of all the animal sounds, but they 
 seem convincing as they echo across valleys, as do the ambient sounds of wind, birds, and insects. 
 The main audio highlight is when you hear -- but can't see -- an enraged animal pounding through the 
 underbrush toward you. It's sure to give you a jolt.  

  Cabela's Dangerous Hunts could have used more polish. Along with some bugs, some of the menu text 
 runs right off of the screen. It also could have used better documentation. Its attempt to appeal 
 to action gamers with the action zone mode falls flat, but if you have the patience and knowledge, 
 the simulation components of the game should provide plenty of interesting challenges.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Kakaroti4
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  You were thinking of getting a descent hunting game with dangerous animals? Well you've come to 
 the right place... right?? NO!
  
  Shame on you Cabela's for making crappy hunting games and bragging about that they are the best 
 in the world? This title could have been great, if only the developers knew what they were doing, 
 but hey they didn't. Let's sum up the bad things about this half-assed hunting game.
  
  Idiotic AI - Animals run around like they are retarded, they are not shy, and will gladly attack 
 you at any cost! You will be assrapped by a little sheep if you get too close, I mean what the 
 hell, every animal wants you dead and it doesn't matter if it's a harmless species or a bear.
 
  
  Labyrinth - I know that the outdoor looks different than this? Every level is a labyrinth formed 
 by small and tight paths that lead you directly to the killer animals, you want a hunting game 
 with depth were you can ream freely and use tactics to kill an animal, not run around in freaking 
 circles!
  
  Realism anyone? - The natural environments look good enough, but ultimately it's boiled down to 
 **** atmosphere, you can only hunt one animal per species hunt! I mean WTF is up with that? And 
 if it isn't enough you are forced to battle every animal you encounter because it will go berserk 
 on you and kill you if you don't act in self defense! no none game animals are visible, the setting 
 is crap, this game is retarded!
  
  Do yourself a favor and buy Trophy Hunter 2003 or Deer Hunter 2005 instead; at least you won't 
 end up with a disaster and a terrible headache. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 18, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  amm the game Cabela's Dangerous Hunts was a nice game . . . . 
  you dress your self like the environment and you choose a riffle . . .
  realy nice. . .amm and 
 then you have mission to serch for an animle and kill it
  and in some times it was realy hard because there were allso fast animles and it was hard to catch 
 them . . . . so the game was nice but gett boring fast because all the time it was the same . . 
 . tou need to kill few animles you go you kill them you pass mission agin . . . few animles and 
 thats all the game
  and some times the animles fight you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 15, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  you might like this game, and you might not. i like it, and my friend hates it and he has even 
 more hunting games than i do (in fact this is my only one) , and he loves them all but hates this 
 one. i dont really get it because i think its a good game, but youre either going to hate it or 
 love it. if you have a friend that has this game, than play it as their house and see how you like 
 it before buying it. better yet, if they dont like it and you do, then you can probably get it 
 really cheap off them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainryan
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 10, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Cabelas dangerous hunts is not as exciting as it sounds. The graphics are preaty bad. This game 
 is the most boring game I have ever played. You walk around and wait. If thats what you really 
 want to do. Then go outside instead of playing a game about it. There are a lot of acceseroics 
 and junk but it preaty much stinks. Of course wild hogs attack you a stuff. But this game is soooo. 
 boring I hardly play it. I mean putting fake moose urine on yourself and walking through the wilderness 
 is fun and all, but... it's not. So out of the bottom of my heart DON"T BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevie53
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 18, 2005 6:32 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the best hunting games I have played yet. The graphics were outstanding, compared 
 to other Cabela's games. It is alot harder to play at expert than a rookie hunter. The challenges 
 were tougher than the regular hunts. Some of the areas that you hunted were a little confusing 
 it seemed sometimes you kept going back to same areas over and over again and the maps were not 
 much help. I have beaten the game at all thrre levels and probably will play it again after some 
 time has passed. It is a great game and I recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: logansdabest
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Before you read on be aware, cabelas dangerous hunts is more similar to an fps than a hunting game. 
 Its basically a first person shooter posing as a hunting game. However i find this somewhat enjoyabe 
 because i am rather sick of shooting nazis or aliens, plus the hunting rifles are fun too use. 
 
  
  the graphics and sound are sub-par, but action zone mode is fun and if youre hunting for an animal 
 such as elk it is fun sniping them, i also found shooting a coyote with a high powerrifle hilarious, 
 because it would actually knock them off their feet! 
  
  Overall it is a decent game for its price, and as i said before you should get this game if youre 
 interested in something different. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
