-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cabela's Off-Road Adventure 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/cabelasoffroadadventure2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 17, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.0, 8.0 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 13 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Clever's Dev.
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date:     Nov 13, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Off-Road Adventure 2 is unlike virtually any previous driving game in that it does not force you 
 to compete against other cars or a constantly ticking clock. 

 Apart from being yet another contender for the title of world's longest computer game name, Cabela's 
 4x4 Off-Road Adventure 2 is also the latest entry in the suddenly mushrooming subgenre of off-road 
 racing. Designed by Hungary-based Clever's Software Development, the same team responsible for 
 the unexpectedly likeable 2001 sleeper Screamer 4x4, Off-Road Adventure 2 is unlike virtually any 
 previous driving game in that it does not force you to compete against other cars or a constantly 
 ticking clock. Instead, it merely asks that you keep your vehicle in good working order long enough 
 to complete all the assigned tasks, regardless of how long it takes you to do so. Suffice it to 
 say that such an undertaking is far more difficult than it sounds. Though the game is plagued with 
 one potentially serious technical issue and in many respects lives up to its budget-conscious $19.99 
 price, it is nevertheless one more pleasant offering from 2-year-old upstart Clever's.         
   Damaging your 4x4 Off-Road vehicle is not particularly difficult.    

  Off-Road Adventure 2 is not designed for those who like their racing fast and in the company of 
 other automobiles. In fact, you'll never, ever see another vehicle. Nor will the game allow you 
 to race against another human. This is intricate, deliberate, and exploratory stuff, conducted 
 in solo fashion through despicably craggy rural settings designed to ensure almost as much vertical 
 movement as horizontal. As each event begins, you find yourself seated in your vehicle of choice, 
 seemingly in the middle of nowhere. There are no start lines, no finish lines, and no predetermined 
 routes to follow. Your only task is to locate and acquire one or more of the "navigation buoys" 
 Clever's has cleverly scattered across the countryside. How and when you get there is completely 
 up to you.   

  The inherent difficulty is two-pronged. Firstly, the topography is so dangerous and so unwelcoming 
 to an automobile of any description that you will inevitably and mistakenly drop off cliffs, drive 
 into trees or other obstacles, become wedged inside deep gorges, and even damage your vehicle simply 
 by driving too quickly over a particularly rough section of land. It cannot be stressed enough -- Off-Road 
 Adventure 2 features some of the most vicious terrain of any off-road game. Secondly, the trucks 
 and SUVs at your disposal are eminently susceptible to abuse. Unlike some similar games, you can't 
 just hurtle merrily over hill and dale and expect to emerge unscathed. In fact, if you don't behave 
 as you would in a real breakable car, it won't take long at all for your once-pristine machine 
 to absorb more bumps and bruises than it was designed to withstand. Soon, bumpers will begin to 
 dent, tires will begin to wobble, engines will begin to smoke, and assorted other parts and pieces 
 will begin to look very different than they did when you started.           4x4 Off-Road offers 
 numerous unique viewer perspectives.    

  All this has a detrimental and very authentic effect on performance. Crushed fenders may well rub 
 against tires, thereby grinding that corner of the car to a halt and causing you to veer off in 
 one direction or another. Bent axles will result in wobbly tires and severely hindered handling, 
 and over-revved engines and transmissions will eventually deteriorate and perhaps even expire. 
 Soon, you'll be hard-pressed to extract yourself from gullies or scale the grades you need to so 
 that you can reach the next navigation buoy. And when you can no longer reach the navigation buoy, 
 you'll be forced to start all over again. There are no magical power-ups or quick fixes to save 
 you in this game.   

  However, there are ways around the ever-present potential for damage, and the most important are 
 found before you even climb in the cockpit. Off-Road Adventure 2 offers a variety of two- and four-wheel 
 drive vehicles, four of which are available from the outset. The other six are reserved for those 
 who can eventually unlock them, and they seem to be made available just about the same time you 
 really need their added capability and durability. Although none are licensed depictions of real-life 
 vehicles, there is a good selection of six- and eight-cylinder trucks and SUVs, as well as a surprise 
 or two should you advance far enough. Additionally, all can be adjusted in the game's garage to 
 better adapt to the upcoming terrain. Clever's has constructed a unique vehicle setup screen, wherein 
 you can fine-tune in six areas, ranging from suspension balance and stiffness to tire pressures 
 and gear ratios, and then monitor the effect of those adjustments on the three key performance 
 areas of torque, maximum speed, and 4x4 ability. This concept of a garage may not be in keeping 
 with a true simulation, which the game otherwise strives to be, but it is nevertheless useful. 
    

 Back on the course, what little information you'll receive regarding your next assignment comes 
 in one of three forms -- an overhead topographical map, a compass, or a text-based distance display. 
 Each is slightly more or less challenging than the other, and much of the general gameplay is based 
 upon which is selected. In skill mode you'll have a map, in navigation mode you'll have a compass, 
 in endurance mode you'll have a distance display, and so on. The latter modes -- exploration, discovery, 
 and freedom -- are substantially trickier because you must maintain a functioning vehicle while locating 
 six navigation buoys rather than the single buoy of earlier modes. Regardless, careful drivers 
 should find they're able to finish off the easier first half of the game in just a couple of hours, 
 and the entire thing in a couple of days. That is one of the great downfalls of the program, although 
 Clever's has added some intrigue by providing random starting points and buoy locations.       
     The 4x4 Off-Road in-car perspective is rather bland.    

  The Off-Road Adventure 2 presentation is more appealing than that of a number of budget racing 
 games but substantially less comprehensive than that of most upper-echelon titles. Certainly the 
 stars of the show are the actual vehicles. Each truck and SUV is impressively detailed and features 
 such visual amenities as source-sensitive lighting, real-time shadows, rotating tires, fully reactive 
 suspension systems, varying degrees of damage and engine smoke, and fully deformable bodies. Parts 
 will not separate in the event of a serious collision, windows do not allow you to see through 
 to the interior, and the in-car perspectives are not accompanied with visible cockpits or steering 
 wheels. Yet the game does sport numerous exterior views, several of which are quite necessary when 
 maneuvering through tight locations. The gameplay audio is generally very strong, highlighted by 
 a variety of wonderfully believable and usually very gutsy engine notes, several forms of mechanical 
 pings and bangs, and enough environmental effects to convince you you're traveling over real terrain. 
   

  The quality of the scenery is more erratic. Although in some locations you're surrounded by trees 
 or on the top of a precipice looking down into a glorious valley, you're more often enclosed in 
 a swath of generic terrain textures. As for the game's many undulations, some are smooth and believable 
 and others are distinctly geometric and rudimentary. And certainly the environments don't appear 
 to be much different from anything seen in either of Clever's two previous off-road racers. Yet 
 the gameworld is so impressively large, so completely drivable, and so prone to a variety of weather 
 conditions that some of these indiscretions can be forgiven.           Powerful machines such as 
 this are initially unavailable.    

  Unfortunately, Clever's has seemingly been unwilling or unable to rectify the analog control problems 
 that plagued its first two games. Essentially, anyone who prefers to drive via the graduated analog 
 axes of a joystick or a wheel and pedal system will experience at least some degree of difficulty. 
 Some may even be forced to switch to the keyboard or the digital on/off axes of a gamepad. In the 
 case of our Cyborg 3D stick, the game simply refused to recognize any of its axes. The news was 
 slightly better for our MOMO Force wheel and pedal unit, where we were eventually able to trick 
 the game into identifying its axes as analog by first selecting a gamepad as our control device, 
 configuring the analog axes as digital axes, then deselecting the gamepad check box. In any case, 
 such ridiculously inept analog support is completely unacceptable in this day and age.   

  Cabela's 4x4 Off-Road Adventure 2 is clearly not a perfect game. It is highly derivative of Clever's 
 first two efforts and most definitely exhibits many of the traits of a budget title. Nevertheless, 
 if you appreciate this style of driving and can handle its controller issues and lack of multiplayer 
 support, you should find enough entertainment value to justify its very palatable price.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
