-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Caesar III
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/caesar3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 14, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.8, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,592 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Impressions Games
Genre: Historic City-Building
Date:     Sep 30, 1998 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite the small problems, building a thriving city in Caesar III is fun. 

 The company line on Caesar III is that it's SimCity set in the Roman Empire. That's only partially 
 true. You do run a city (or, rather, a series of cities) in a fashion somewhat like the classic 
 urban management game, but the game mechanics of Caesar III are more akin to Blue Byte's Settlers 
 II. Unlike in SimCity, you do not simply zone your territory and sit back while your city prospers 
 or fails. Instead, you are commissioned to perform a much wider array of tasks, ranging from setting 
 up efficient production lines to maintaining a military force. Caesar III is a much better game 
 than Settlers II, and combines some of the best elements of both that game and SimCity. But it 
 manages to suffer from Settler II's most glaring shortcoming: the combat system. What's worse, 
 it finds a shortcoming of its own with some problems that make efficient management often more 
 difficult than it should be. And both of these serve to slightly hamper what is otherwise a very 
 enjoyable game.  

 Caesar III is mission-based. In each progressive mission, you are assigned certain goals, usually 
 a target population and target scores in the various categories in which your performance is rated, 
 including the prosperity and culture level of your people and your favor with the emperor. To its 
 credit, Caesar III gives you two territories to choose from at each subsequent level. In most cases, 
 the difference between these two areas is how much hostility you will face, allowing those who 
 want to concentrate on development to stick to the peaceful provinces, and those who want to battle 
 it out with the game's combat to venture into the war-torn areas.   

 In the peaceful territories, you'll find that the game's many strengths are emphasized. You must 
 zone for housing, find a source of food (either through farming, trading, or fishing or a combination 
 thereof) , and proceed to set up profitable trade industries, please your populace, and satisfy 
 the demands of the gods. Planning the city is the best part of Caesar III, and watching your people 
 and your industry thrive is a very satisfying experience. For trade, there are numerous items to 
 make, such as weapons, wine, furniture, oil, and pottery. Each of these items has a prerequisite 
 ingredient (which can also be traded, but for less money) , such as iron, grapes, timber, olives, 
 and clay. These ingredients can often be harvested from the land, but often you'll need to trade 
 for the items you need in order to make the items you want to trade. Only certain items are in 
 demand in every region, so you'll have to plan the quantity of production accordingly (although 
 most trade items are also needed for domestic use) . Caesar III makes the most of its artificial 
 constraints in order to make each subsequent level a bit more complex, but it's a fun system.  

 Pleasing your populace requires schools, theaters, libraries, bathhouses, and the like. Many of 
 these complexes can't be built too near housing or the neighborhood won't reach the most desirable 
 class levels. Of course, pleasing the populace also requires food, and lots of it. This is the 
 area in which Caesar III is both the most demanding and, sometimes, the most confounding. Food 
 is stored in granaries. Market collectors go to these granaries and then distribute the food to 
 the people. Unfortunately, collectors often don't go to the closest granaries. On many occasions, 
 market traders will pass through granaries stocked with a variety of food, only to go take food 
 from another granary located far away. All the while, the people are starving. Neighborhood market 
 workers also have the unpleasant habit of wandering off into areas where food is not needed (or, 
 worse, where no one lives) , and all the while your people go hungry. It's frustrating, especially 
 when you're trying to reach a particular prosperity level, your granaries are brimming, and yet 
 your people are starving. These problems are easily fixed by "tricking" the market workers by removing 
 certain areas of roadway, but either smarter workers or the ability to micromanage routes would 
 have improved the system tenfold.   

 You must also please the gods, which can be tricky. The five deities (Ceres, Neptune, Mercury, Mars, 
 and Venus) require constant attention with temples or festivals, and this attention must be divided 
 somewhat equally. Happy gods will give you benefits; angry gods will punish you. There's no way 
 to schedule these events, so you must get into a sort of habitual ritual of holding a festival 
 every month or so. Forget, and you spend a few months playing catch-up. Forget for a while (and 
 it's easy to do with everything else that's going on) , and you're in trouble. Plan to lose some 
 food or have a small insurrection every once in a while.  

 Despite the small problems, though, building a thriving city in Caesar III is fun. It's only defending 
 said city that is really a problem. Combat is the weakest point of Caesar III. You simply build 
 the appropriate structures (a barracks, a military academy, and a fort) , and soldiers are generated. 
 There are three types of soldiers: mounted, javelin throwers, and legions. Each has several formations 
 to choose from, but they don't have much impact. Combat is mostly a matter of selecting the group 
 and clicking on a point on the map. The soldiers will then go to that point, attacking anything 
 in the way. At least some of them will. Unless they hit an enemy head-on, they'll just keep moving 
 while their brethren fall in battle. So combat simply becomes a matter of constantly clicking on 
 the enemy.   

 Combat aside, Caesar III is a very good game. The early levels are especially fun, as the problems 
 don't become apparent until later. Giving you more control in certain areas and less control in 
 others would marginally improve things, but Caesar III manages to keep the positives well ahead 
 of the negatives.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (34 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Theodeus
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  This is the ultimate city-building sim! I first played it when I was no taller than your awerage 
 gnome, and I still play it, being taller than most. The artstyle goes straight into my heart and 
 I simply can't stop watching as my city grows. It's perfectly balanced between simply building 
 to your hearts content and manageing your minions. This is not a game for those who want to fiddle 
 with everything (go play Europa Universalis 3 folks) , but rather for he/she who enjoys building 
 a lively city in a gorgeous setting. The fighting is not to speak about (I only play maps which 
 has no military activity) , being totaly lame. But the simple task of providing food for your little 
 ones is everything I want from this game. Mmm... Did I say I like it?
  
  I think it's still availible from budget-bins and in best of versions, so if you we're to stumble 
 upon one, get it. I'll buy your copy if you're not happy (given that you figure out my real name, 
 adress, and come visit me) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lionman363
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  Caesar III puts you in charge of a small Roman city, you can start from scratch or at times get 
 right into it by loading up an old city. You need to keep a steady income of denarri, food and 
 basic goods to keep your citizens happy, otherwise you'll find your people leaving your city before 
 you know it. Housing and resource facilities are normally the first layout of buildings that you 
 should construct, then you should move onto creating factories for general goods, so that housing 
 facilities can develop so that more Roman citizens can immigrate to your city, but the unfortunate 
 thing is that this game gets boring after an hour of gameplay.
  
  
  Although all the decisions are made by you, your advisers will inform you if something needs to 
 be done, so you should consult them frequently, otherwise running your city will quickly become 
 a bit of a burden. Not all resources are available on the one map, so you may have to import goods 
 from other cities of the Empire, its expensive but you'll need them to advance in your assignment. 
 You can also export goods to other cities if they are in need of it, its a handy way of making 
 a bit of cash, but it can be slow at times. If you run into debt the emperor will lend you some 
 denarii, but you need to try to make each loan last longer than the last, otherwise he will be 
 begin to lose favor of you, you can however send the emperor gifts to keep him content. At times, 
 the emperor will send you requests for resources, fulfill his requests and his view towards your 
 actions will be a favorable one, if you fail to produce them in time, or if you don't bother producing 
 them at all then he will slowly begin to lose faith in you. Anger the emperor and he may send an 
 army to destroy your city and strip you of your status. Not only do you need to keep your population 
 and your superiors content, you will also need to keep your city safe from riots and attacks from 
 barbarians and enemies of the Empire, you can build barracks and academies to recruit and train 
 soldiers, such as cavalry, legionaries and auxilaries.
  
  Now, before city-building fans start to complain that I am being rough on the game, I'd like to 
 explain why I thought this game was a little disappointing, first of all, its boring, it starts 
 off slowly and its hard to keep your mind on the game until you can get to a few of the exciting 
 bits, and you can't go anywhere without getting complaints that there isn't enough food or resources 
 to keep your citizens content.... and the emperor. Its get difficult very quickly, the tutorial 
 and the first two missions are possibly the only newbie-friendly parts of the game, there are way 
 too many difficulty spikes and any attempt to keep everything under control can get pointless, 
 its only fun for a short while and isn't anything that would keep you glued to your seat for a 
 full afternoon, let alone a day.
  
  :)
  Well, it is fun...
  
  : (
  ... for just an hour.
  Too boring
  Too slow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phenom_piano88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:45 am PT
Review:  Caesar III is a game set in Ancient Rome, where the people worship Gods like Mars and Neptune, 
 you are a Governer working for Caesar, building a utopia and defending your empire from pesky invaders.
 
  
  This is one of the best city building games out there, its graphics are outdated but the gameplay 
 is way ahead of its time. you have to fulfil your people's high expectations of living while earning 
 income and favor from Caesar. There's plenty to do in Caesar III.
  
  Though it might sound easy, but balancing everything is not as easy as it seems. If you clump all 
 your houses together you won't have space to build the amenities that your people desire, and most 
 missions will require you to have a certain standard of living to complete.
  
  Theres too much to mention, you'll just have to play to find out for yourself.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eufnoc
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  I personally have never played Caesar I or Caesar II so I can not comment on it, I have played 
 Caesar IV and I can honestly say although the game is also good they have lost there way, Caesar 
 III was the best of the series, in my opinion it is the best city builder game made, it out ranks 
 sim city, it hammers every city builder game out there, the complexity of all the balancing, the 
 attention to the smallest detail you have to pay attention to, sure the graphics are now dated, 
 sure there's little to no community any more, but the whole fun of the game is to immerse your 
 self in your own city, stop you people starving and defend against the Celts!!!
  The only thing that annoys me sometimes is when the game contradicts it's self "I love this city 
 everything is alright" says a citizen in the street "The city has high unemployment, no food produced, 
 no food stored, the gods are wrathful and Caesar is thinking of having you executed as you slept 
 with his daughter on a drunken night out"  says your advisor on the next screen, luckily that 
 hardly happens and the game seems to run perfectly all the way through.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pesadilla
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Nuts and bolts:
  
  The game pretty much tells you what to do and when to do it.
  
  For instance:
  If the townfolk are eating more than the food supply  build more farms
  If 
 something burns down  build a "firehouse" close by
  If the Gods get angry - build their respective temples
  If all the taxes are not being collected 
  build governmental offices
  Etc
  
  It will tell you just like that, it will say:
  "The townfolk are eating more than the food supply"
  
  If you build something out in the middle 
 of nowhere it will say:
  "There needs to be a road leading here"
  
  STRATEGY: Don't build any extra luxury items until it says there is a problem. i. e. If the town 
 people are bored, build an actors colony and stage (but not before the problem is mentioned) .
 
  
  STRATEGY: Start with the small buildings and build larger only when it tells you that more of the 
 product or service is needed
  
  Get the picture. It gives you a problem scenario and you just need to correct it.
  
  The reason 
 I gave you the "how to play" in a nutshell is to show you that a monkey could be trained to play 
 this game. I really wouldn't take this game too seriously, and if you win this game the first time 
 you play, it really isn't that much of an accomplishment.
  
  Not to say this game isn't fun  for a while. The game does keep you moving, there are always things 
 to do and fix. Your hands will ALWAYS be moving during this game. As long as you play conservatively 
 (don't overbuild) , there should be no reason why you can't win the first time you play.
  
  This game is fun if you have NEVER played this type of game (micro-managing) . If you are an expert 
 in this type of game, I would recommend that you steer clear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cluttrell
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I do not have much to add to the review that nobody else hasn't already said. The game is fun and 
 darn hard. I still have yet to make it past the 4th different mission, this problably has to do 
 with the fact that I spend so much time in a free-play mode, trying to fill the screen with a city. 
 This is a wonderful game for those who love strategy and building games. I have spent more time 
 on it than any one person should. The graphics are not the best in the world, neither is the AI 
 when it comes to putting out fires. But, the sound is great, the gameplay is fun and challenging, 
 and I have yet to encounter any glitches. Buy it and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  My gaming hit new heights in the spring of 98. A generous tax refund led to the purchase of an 
 Intel Celeron based PC with a whopping 3.2GB hard-drive. I hadnt had a PC for some time, with 
 entry level workforce wages and living in Australias most expensive city meaning a diet of beans 
 and rice and not a lot of spare cash. The new toy bought considerable strain to the relationship 
 of that time and a lot less sleep, but I was back in the saddle  and Giddy-Up indeed. And the 
 first game I completed on this machine was Impressions Caesar III.
  
  Caesar III put you in the shoes of one the mans chosen Governors. The game traced your career 
 of building period cities with the splendour required of its citizens and the productivity required 
 of Caesar who runs a less than benign dictatorship. Get it right and you were rewarded with more 
 prestigious (and more challenging) scenarios. Get it wrong and he sent the boys over. The game 
 plays similar the SimCity franchise, where you place a large array of infrastructure across a map 
 and watch the city grow. However, there is a challenging economic model to keep ahead of, the demands 
 of the populace to satisfy to enable city progression, the odd natural disaster, a number of ad-hoc 
 requests from the man and on occasion some hostile neighbours to deal with. Planning is important 
 from all angles as you keep the numbers above the red line. What this all leads to is many absorbing 
 hours of city building.
  
  The game looked fine for its time and the 2D bustling metropolis still looks reasonable enough 
 today. Like all of Impressions games, the interface was detailed yet uncluttered, with almost 
 all actions to be undertaken to a button click or two, whilst keeping you in the loop of important 
 demographic features. The city looks the part, especially in later levels where the ancient roman 
 monoliths such as Coliseums are added to the mix. But the variety of houses, religious structures, 
 enterprise buildings, beautification options and your own bachelor pad made the city a sight.
 
  
  Whilst you play God by tinkering with the economic mechanics, rezoning areas and building relevant 
 structures of note, the town went about its business. Folk would go to work, relax at home, enjoy 
 the entertainment on offer and enter and depart your city in a very realistic way. It was a joy 
 to watch a city operate in full swing. The icon based controls were neatly presented in the background 
 to the action and the opening video was up there with the best of its time.
  
  The sounds are also atmospheric and suitable. The city bustles along with a variety of relevant 
 ambient effects and citizens will provide a line of dialogue (which is usually a hint) about what 
 they think of the city. There is also background music that is repetitive but not offensive. Its 
 all OK.
  
  The gameplay had me hook, line and sinker in the late 1990s. The campaign does a great job in 
 providing the mechanics of building a beautiful city, starting from the basics of housing and public 
 structures and progressing through commerce, religion, entertainment and quite frankly just looking 
 the piece. Whilst there were a number of other elements at play, it did give a logical progression 
 structure.
  
  Planning the city is where the game really shines. Housing starts from simple tents and as infrastructure 
 grows, the houses can turn into palatial mansions. But there are steps involved  basic infrastructure 
 such as wells, fire house and security. A food source (hunters and fisherman) , marketplaces, places 
 of worship, entertainment, the manufacturing of goods for trade and the addition of trees, parks 
 and plazas will all lead to prosperity. However, it is not as easy as it sounds as you manage all 
 these factors and Caesars demands (out of the blue he will ask for 24 crates in the next two years 
 and you havent even built a vineyard!) and at times conflict along the way. It is wise to deliver 
 to the man, and to keep you bank balance in the black. He will overlook the first couple of transgressions 
 and will loan money on a couple of occasions  but if you keep failing you can expect to see his 
 finest infantry raze your town to the ground.
  
  Combat is a tricky scenario. It does feel awkward to produce the army and have them standing in 
 no mans land waiting for an attack. What makes it more awkward is that they will not respond 
 the any attack at all. You need to direct them to an opposing army. And a simple mouse 'misclick' 
 will lead a partial razing of your town and a good hour of work down the drain.
  
  Keeping the food source and money flowing was also more difficult than it should have been. It 
 was frustrating building granaries and warehouses, only to see market sellers not use those installations. 
 Meanwhile, some of the population leave as they is allegedly no food. For all the activity and 
 structures  it was always (for me, anyway) a fine line between financial surplus and deficit and 
 I had Mr Caesar on my case constantly. On one such occasion I knew I could not pay him back, so 
 I built the mother of all armies to fight against his troops when they came. My lads gave it their 
 best and all but a few had fallen, until the Gods (as I had several religious structures and always 
 held the annual festivals) sent a minion of sorts to slaughter Caesars men. I still failed the 
 mission  but hey  it was a satisfying piece of gaming.
  
  And sometimes, getting the one extra prestige point to secure the victory condition could take 
 hours as you had to rezone your whole city. But thats life.
  
  The campaign shows the games strengths and weakness on a platter. Combat isnt a lot of fun and 
 dealing with Mr Caesar was a significant challenge which took away some of the focus of just building 
 a cool looking city. While the non-hostile missions were enjoyable, the sandbox mode (or the ability 
 to continue with missions even after victory conditions were achieved) was where real fun could 
 be had. Cities teaming with plazas, parklands and all the Roman glory could be made it was pretty 
 enjoyable doing so.
  
  It took me quite a while to complete the single player campaign. It is challenging at the default 
 difficulty, something Impressions must have realized as they added an easier difficulty setting 
 with a subsequent patch. After the campaign, there is a free mode where you can simply build the 
 city you please  and I do admit to doing this quite a bit as well. Some keen fans also made custom 
 missions, which are probably still on the internet today. Simply there is a lot of game time here. 
 I purchased for $AUD70 back in 1998, but this can be picked up for $AUD10 today. Most of the Impressions 
 series can be picked up for that price and they are worth seeking out.
  
  Caesar III was the start of a purple patch for Impressions. Obviously enhancing on the gameplay 
 they developed in earlier Caesar games, they went on to make Pharaoh, Zeus and Emperor. The logical 
 progression from rags to riches, the challenging scenarios and the ability to add the monoliths 
 of the age made for an excellent suite of games. Caesar III lets you play God, but the added 
 catch is that you are answering to the man himself, and he could be quite unforgiving. It was challenging 
 and rewarding gameplay through the campaign, and an enjoyable sandbox in the free mode as you built 
 the Roman city of your imagination. Good stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limpeh-behsi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  When I first see the screenshot of this game (although I bought it after it had been released for 
 about 8 years) I knew that its worth to pay for it. To make it easier for the viewers to read, 
 I classify it into a few parts.
  
  Gameplay : It is easy to learn how to play it, but hard to master it. You can have a small city, 
 but not a very busy and 'wealthy' city easily. People who like to play city building game surely 
 will love this, but even people who like to play game similar to Age of Empires or Command &amp; 
 Conquer will still like it. For the 'peace-lover', you can play maps without any military action, 
 just to grow your city, open trades to earn money and produce your own goods. For the 'generals', 
 you can have your own troops, build strong city walls and defence tower to protect your city. Sometimes, 
 you can even send your troop to help Caesar in some wars. If Caesar won the war, your 'reputation' 
 will be higher. If you choose to play the missions, you must get the required ratings for culture, 
 prosperity, peace, imperial (what Caesar thinks you are) and population. You can get your prosperity 
 higher when your city is rich (have villas, treasury have plenty of money) . The tutorials will 
 give you very clear information about how to play the game if you are a new player to the Caesar 
 series game. There is 1 thing still missing in Caesar III, but 'solved' in Caesar IV -- The walkers 
 will just simply walk on the road connected, and there isn't any 'road blocks' in Caesar III. So, 
 sometimes, they maybe will go out of their 'control area' to somewhere that they shouldn't go.
 
  
  Graphics :
  This game was made in 1998, the graphic is almost the best at the time. Isometric view, with colourful 
 buildings and small animations of the people and buildings. It really make the city looks busy, 
 and realistic.
  
  Sound/Music :
  You can click on every people in your city to 'listen' to their opinion about your city. Overall, 
 the in-game music is not too bad.
  
  Conclusion :
  If you are looking for a 'nice-looking 2D city building game' , this game perfectly suits you. 
 It is like Sim City, but set in ancient time, and with military aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gizmo_kicks_ass
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 15, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  For now, i had this game for around close to 10 years, when i was around ten or eleven years old. 
 when i started it, it was very addictive, and i could not stop it (this is wat's called early case 
 of game addiction) i could say this game launched me into the gaming world in my early teen years, 
 (and star craft) . sure the graphic looks quite crappy and music repeats itself sometimes, but as 
 long as the game play is solid, it got hold of me for a very long time. i've quit playing it around 
 5 years ago, due to many more games like CoD, HL and FIFA, with all the dazzling graphics, but 
 since i've been cut off from buying new games, i came back to C3. i've played C4 and it doesn't 
 look much better than C3 let me tell you, it's only graphic that got better and maybe little more 
 choice for buildings which is confusing at first. anyway, C3 plays in my laptop, which is running 
 in Vistas, and the fact that it still runs after being created 9 years ago, i'm gonna keep this 
 forever, until either it becomes an antique game (yes, i've thought of giving this to my kids when 
 i'm that old) or it goes bust from being too old, other wise it is a fantastic game that'll keep 
 you up for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWT2008
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 2, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  From the first thirty minutes of playing Caeser 3, i knew I was going to love it. The game mechanics 
 are very well done, no bugs at all. Fairly easy to learn, but much more difficult to master. The 
 later levels become much more intense with the military portion, and there is never nothing to 
 do. I found my mouse constantly moving and doing new things, something where games like SimCity 
 and Civiliazation falter. Those games become somewhat boring and repetitive towards the end, but 
 Caeser 3 stays difficult and time consuming throughout its play. Whether its a race to please the 
 emporer, defend your city, attain a certain level of culture, or reach a population marker, there 
 are plenty of actions along the way to make every moment of Caeser 3 an enjoyable one. Oh how I 
 love my villas!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballintinius
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoy Roman history, and you would like a simple, yet fun feel of city management on a historical 
 basis, you really can find satisfaction with Caesar III.
  
  Simple graphics that link very well together, fun interaction with citizens, background sound that 
 covers the city with a pleasant ambiance and a musical score is superbly orchestrated makes you 
 feel as if you are a Caesar in the making.
  
  The game play is graduated, the learning curve well thought out, and the AI allows for good interaction 
 with the civs and administration for your city. The patch/Scenario editor released shortly after 
 the game debuted, opened up a world of different options to create new games and a sandbox play 
 that can fill a gigantic map with a multitude of smaller cities, all interlinked to each other. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmandes
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  The graphic was not much of an improvement from caesar II and there is still an continual flow 
 of micro-managing your roman city. A small problem may araise that can if unslove will become a 
 fatal blow to your empire. The military option is not that fansitic as well, the basic idea will 
 still be to let your legionary confront the enemy and place your javelin thrower behind them. The 
 propersty rating is also one that is very difficult to maintain, especially with houses constantly 
 up grading or down grading according to even supplies like your second source of wine, for some 
 palaces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  This game defines the citybuilder type. It is a very complex game and you have a lot of stuff to 
 do out there.
  
  For example you have to build a city of the Roman Empire wich must have the properties indicated 
 in the briefing at the starting of the mission. You must worship gods to earn their blessings and 
 if you don't they will bestow their wraths upon your city. You can trade with different roman cities. 
 Caesar will make rquests of goods or armies. And the most important are the rating columns wich 
 indicates your city's influence in the Empire. This are culture wich is earned by building schools, 
 lybraries, academies and other entertainment edifices; Prosperity wich is the hardest to raise. 
 It represents the level of your citiy's housing and your income. For example if you city has the 
 lowest house as Large Insuale and the largest Large Villa you will have a prosperity of about 70%; 
 Pace is the easiest to grow. It represents how the people feel. Worship venus and have a considerable 
 army and you will surely have 100% pace; Favor is how Caesar feels about you. This is the only 
 rating that starts from 50%.
  
  The other secrets of this game will be discovered only if you play it OR read other rewies maybe:) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allhailcaesar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  One of the best pc games ever, period. Regardless of genre. City building at its finest. This game 
 was a quantum leap from Caesar 2 and Plebs are needed. For 1998 graphics were excellent. Game play 
 is fantastic, except for the dumb walkers, but you can get around this easily. You start off as 
 a citizen and are given the task of starting settlements. As you govern you are graded in four 
 areas, prosperity, culture, peace and favor (your popularity with the senate and people of Rome) . 
 Once you have reached the stated goals in each category, usually a population requirement also, 
 you are promoted. You can choose either military or peaceful missions. The cities you govern are 
 scattered throughout the empire. You deal with requests from Caesar, restless natives, sometimes 
 aggressive enemies, and most importantly your citizenry. Once you have completed all the missions 
 you are crowned Caesar! Still worth a play 8 years after release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkphoenix777
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 1, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Simple layouts and expansive landscapes on which to build your cities ensure that you 
 will be immediately hooked (even if you're not a classics buff!) . As well as the city-building, 
 you will have to take charge in all governmental responsibilities, including trade, taxes, religion 
 and many more. This all adds to the immersion you experience when playing Caesar III.
  
  Graphics: In comparison to modern graphical standards, Caesar III is clearly quite primitive (not 
 surprising considering its date of release: 8 years ago) . However, I must stress that, unless you 
 are a graphics junkie, this will not detract from your overall gaming experience in the slightest. 
 For those of you who require a visually stunning game, Caesar IV will be released during October 
 and, judging by screens I have witnessed, it looks like it will tick all the boxes (and more) for 
 all your graphical needs.
  
  Sound: While nothing special, the sound quality of Caesar III is adequate in providing the feeling 
 that you are witnessing a city going about its everyday business, and this is all that is really 
 required in such a game. However, a shortage of varied sounds and voices means that I can't award 
 a higher score in this category.
  
  Value: The fact that this game has provided well over 100 hours of enjoyment, for the price of 
 &pound;5.00 brand new, says it all. Reviewer's Tilt: Caesar IV will be out in less than a month 
 and promises top-of-the-range graphics and more content. This is likely to push Caesar III into 
 the category of selective appeal, namely to those who like a good bargain and enjoy a trip down 
 memory lane.
  
  All in all, the fact that Caesar III is still being enjoyed over 8 years after its release proves 
 that there are some games out there which provide timeless appeal (and this is a rare thing indeed) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandeflavio
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 24, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This is the best City building game for PC I have played.
  It's not RealTimeStrategy, because you can stop the game end change the Speed, getting time to 
 think what it's the best to do at that moment.
  Caesar III have a simple structure, with the buttons in the right side, giving you total control 
 of your city.
  With the Roman theme, Sierra created its best game: the people say what they need and think about 
 the city and also about you.
  The graphics, for the realease date are very good, the scenarios are well done, with the nature 
 helping or not the city. When I say "nature", I want to say "Gods" too.
  The sound is really good, changing with the city improvements, with a invasion or when a God don't 
 like you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 5, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This city buiding game isnt for the impatient! You are basically caesar (Duh!) and you have to 
 build are marvellous roman city. For thoses who have played "Pharoah" you may notice the game is 
 very similar. Basically (For those who havnt) build wells or gardens outside houses and they will 
 thrive turning from mud shackes into villas! Prevent wars and revolts from cities by using your 
 political and diplomatic skills to prevent warfare. Keep the gods pleased or they will strike their 
 eternal wrath onto you (Some worse than others) . This game is fun for the serious RTS/city building 
 gamer!
  
  Overall this game holds many difficult and challenging qualties that just add excellence to the 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Willhelm
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 7, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  after playing caesar for around 7 hours i am really not inclined to continue. having enjoyed such 
 games as "zeus: master of olympus" and "pharoh" (also created by impressions games) i was expecting 
 so much more from this game. however the dull, boring visuals, monotonous audio and repetitive 
 gameplay left me with a very low opinion of this ramshackle game. if you want a great city building 
 game just go and get Zeus: Master of Olympus it is infinitly more enthrawling.
  
  Gameplay: dull. doesnt equal great games such as Pharoh
  
  Graphics: also dull. the visual 
 really leave a lot to be desired, not nearly colouful enough and unimpressiv e animatons
  
  Sound: crap is the best word to decribe the sounds in this game
  
  value: you may play this 
 for a lot longer than i did, but i really dont think there is much to this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bologa
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Who would have thought that building a city from scratch would have been fun? Well it is now possible 
 to do this in Caesar III. I think the third game in the series is the best. The point in this game 
 is to build a city by placing houses close to a road. You lose money as you place them (do not 
 worry you usually start off with a good amount) . Then all you have to do is watch the people enter 
 these houses. Once this is done then you have to build markets, farms, and granaries to make your 
 people happy. In some maps you can make an army to defend your city. The part that I did not like 
 in this game is the army part because it takes a lot of time and resources to make a decent one. 
 Another thing that I found weird was how easily building were destroyed with simply a few men equipped 
 with swords. Overall this is a good game that I would recommend buying but only for the building 
 part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janoma
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 7, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This game kind of deceived me. At the beginning it looked easy... two or three stages with no danger, 
 revolutions or earthquakes, but soon I noticed that if I wanted to advance to the very last stages, 
 I'd have to play not only extremely concentrated, but also with a near-perfection strategy and 
 a well ordered building structure.
  
  Unfortunately I was too inexpert with this kind of games the first time I played it, so I simply 
 could not pass the stages without cheating.
  
  Fortunately I found this game in an old box and played a few months ago. I realised that my strategy 
 wasn't appropriate, and searched the web for help. Google saved me --once again -- with a couple 
 of websites that offered intelligent building structures in Excel format, and I finally could appreciate 
 the beauty behind that programmer-minded game-motor.
  
  I hope that gameplay gets some improvements in this brand-new 3D-version of the game. I am sure 
 if they can do that, the game will be a success between mature strategy gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:12 pm PT
Review:  This game seemed to have everything an Ancient Rome buff would want: build, rule, and command your 
 very own city. I've never played any of the first 2, but reviews for the 3rd was the best, so why 
 not. If you're like me and expected carnage, you're better off with Rome Total War (now that's 
 a great game) . Don't expect much action in this game, and when action does happen, it's played 
 down and short. The game is more of a city builder and has you concerned about the citizens' living 
 conditions and their fear of various gods. You produce things and send them off to fulfill requests 
 from Rome and to make some cash. If you like city building games set in Roman times, then this 
 would be it. If you like action, you're better off with RTW. The difficulty can be very hard, takes 
 some time to get used to and learn how to get things up and running. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heystaw
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 11, 2005 9:30 am PT
Review:  One of the big things I like about this game is that it has some history lessons with everything 
 that is used, built, or events that happen due to the players strategy. This game is Sim City 
 with a Roman which causes a different flavor to city building. Here there are three enemies, the 
 people, barbarians, and Caesar which causes a more complex way of building and managing a city. 
 I've been playing this game for 5 years and it gets better and I learn a little more each time. 
 Also remembering names of types of people and buildings can really help in history class in High 
 School. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarbaraj101
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2005 10:28 pm PT
Review:  The game is cool and I've played it for more than 2500 hours! The game's perfect and you'll take 
 a lot of time to learn it. The game's very cheap on amazon. go n' buy yourself a copy. Recommended 
 - 1000%
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The is useless junk used to make the review of 100 words:
  a c o o l g a m e . b u y i t!
  a c o o l g a m e . b u y i t!
  a c o o l g a m e . b u y i t!
  a c o o l g a m e . b u y i 
 t!
  a c o o l g a m e . b u y i t!
  a c o o l g a m e . b u y i t!
  a c o o l g a m e . b u y i t!
  a c o o l g a m e . b u y i t!
  a c o o l g a m e . b u y i 
 t!
  a c o o l g a m e . b u y i t!
  a c o o l g a m e . b u y i t!
  a c o o l g a m e . b u y i t!
  a c o o l g a m e . b u y i t!
  a c o o l g a m e . b u y i 
 t!
  a c o o l g a m e . b u y i t!
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: caliFRAGi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 9:24 am PT
Review:  It's easy enough to build the city. But managing the city (& inhabitant) is the main problem of 
 this game.
  
  You have to make people get a job or make your structure occupied by worker. (Try to balance the 
 worker & building that need workers.)
  Stock some food or sell it on market. (No food stock makes people hungry, too much food makes warehouse 
 overload.)
  make people entertained, make Caesar pleased, make gods happy! 
  
  Pretty nice graphic and details. You can see the people do their job (or not) . Nice sound. Many 
 building structure.
  
  I like this game so much, but it's too hard for me. I always run out of money and then I have to 
 loan Caesar's money. After 3x loans, my pretty city is destroyed by soldiers. I can't fight them. 
 That's how I stuck and stop to play this game. hahaha...! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandmon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 17, 2005 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Caesar 3 was one of the best City Building and its still good!
  For me Caesar 3 is a polish for any RTS game!
  Althouh it had bad military AI and stuff the city 
 building is pretty good and u can make trade to other provinces in Rome.
  The graphics of the building was very good for its age but the people AI is very poor. ( they just 
 gone around walking only on the road)
  But still its very good.
  And I hope the next installment for the series will be quite satisfaing! ( that I dont know when 
 it will be out) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogdanpotter
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 16, 2005 11:28 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game even if it's old along with other well-made stratagy games from the late 
 90's. Of course we all like to know about the grafics even if it's not always important there are 
 still those really picky people who don't take a game if it doesen't have good grafics, well yes 
 the grafics look dated by today's standards but it's still good. The gameplay is quite addictive 
 but there are not to many maps only 6-8 I forgot I have not played it in a long time. Anyway get 
 this game and it's cheap. To bad you cannot find to many copies in stores nowadays it's to bad 
 because there are some really good old games out there that i have not seen on store shelves who 
 sell game like Sam and Max: Hit the road, Loom, Indiana jones series, and the King's Quest series (it's 
 also a good game) . You would only know of there are games if your were alive and old enough and 
 not a king-gamer but some one was really in to games to know about there or have some one mention 
 it to you. Anyways get the game. if you cannont find it in stores cheak on e-bay. You don't even 
 have to take much time in learning it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SunnySimantov
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2005 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Caesar III is a strategy game where you take the role of an ancient-Rome city mayor. From Rome's 
 earliest expansion at 200 BC to even 100 AD, during its height.
  Building the city itself is pretty simple, but managing it is a very big difficult. First, as a 
 mayor you must have people in your town. For getting people you need to place "signs" which indicates 
 where the houses area will be. 
  Houses can evolve or devolve, and it happens when the house gains a specific item or access or 
 when it loses it. For example, a small tent will evolve to a large tent when it gains access to 
 a basic water system. 
  There are many public houses varied from Bathhouses and Barbershops to Academies, Hospitals and 
 Temples, each of these can give houses access to a specific service or give them a specific item. 
 Items, which are sorts of Goods can be imported, or created at your own factories, if you have 
 the right materials. You can create wine from vines which grows in Vince Farms or you can create 
 oil from olives which come from Olive Farms.
  In the game your main goal is to keep your city standing as long as possible, and this you do by 
 keeping your citizens happy. To keep them happy you need to supply them food, water and basic health 
 care. Of course that luxuries such as wine and furniture is good too, but it costs money and takes 
 time to create them\import them.
  All of these houses cost money, and you can earn money by: Taxing the citizens, and the wealthier 
 they are, the more tax money they pay. Exporting goods and materials or taking money from your 
 salary (which could be used for sending the Caesar a gift) . When getting into debt you have a short 
 time to earn that money back or else your job as a mayor will end.
  There is a religion system in the game, either. There are five Roman gods, and each can be happy 
 or mad. You can satisfy them by performing festivals for each god or building many temples, and 
 if you wouldn't be prepared to their wrath! Gods like Neptune can help you in the sea-aspect, but 
 if he is mad, watch your boats sinking in storms. Temples send priests to spread the religion in 
 each of these gods separately, and sometimes religion is needed to evolve houses.
  
  The game supplies a nicely done campaign, taking you all across of Europe, from the beginning to 
 the end of the Roman Empire. Each mission you get a promotion, get harder tasks and gain access 
 to more buildings. Around the middle of the game you have access to all buildings available to 
 that map (ie some maps couldn't have Timber Mills for some reason) .
  Including, some maps and more can played in a free-form style game, with no tasks and challenges. 
 This gives overally 20 hours to quick players and 40 to those who like to keep playing the game 
 and putting efforts in their cities.
  Graphically the game looks nice. The houses are colorful and nice to look at, but not so impressive. 
 The graphics are of course, 2D, except for some cinematic parts here and there.
  The sounds in the game are very good. You can hear what every people in your city has to say, and 
 each has its unique sound and accents. Actors will have extremely dramatic voices and basket carrying 
 kids will complain about their hard work. As the city becomes more crowded you will hear the voices 
 of a busy town, with markets' shouts and religious prays.
  
  Overally Caesar III is a game for strategy fans or people who like city building, it is mostly 
 fun if you consider sometimes the hard tasks and challenges it brings up, it offers many features 
 and a memorable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 25, 2005 1:16 am PT
Review:  This is a good game even though it's old along with other good stratagy games from the late 90's. 
 Of corse we all like to know about he grafics even though it's not always importent there are still 
 thoughs really picky people who like grafics, well yes the grafics look dated by today's standards 
 but it's still good. The gameplay is quite addictive but there are not to many maps only 6-8 i 
 forot i have not played it in a long time. anyways get this game and it's cheap. To bad you cannot 
 find to many copys in stores now adays it's to bad because there are some really good old games 
 out there that i have not seen on store shelves who sell game like The monkey island series, Sam 
 and Max: Hit the road, Loom, and the Kings quest series. You would only know of theres games if 
 your were alive and old enough and not a caual gamer but some one was really in to games to know 
 about there or have some one mention it to you. Anyways get the game. if you cannont find it in 
 stores cheak on ebay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterBruno
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 17, 2005 6:52 pm PT
Review:  This game was for me the first of all my games I ever played. I started playing games at my 41!! 
 I was very surprised by this one and after 5 hours of playing I was sold and addicted. I really 
 did not know by that time that I became a very addicted gamer of all kind but it was a start. This 
 game is fun and must be played by everyone. Good for your mouse movement if you're newbie to pc's 
 and multimedia. 
  Now it looks a little bit odd because the standard of the new generations games are amazing. But 
 this one you can play it on a old system as well.
  Worth playing and good sounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: writincat
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 21, 2005 9:59 pm PT
Review:  One of the all time greats- now or then. I pulled it out again, started another career (my 4th) 
 and am enjoying it all over again. The difficulty of missions is steadily harder reaching "really 
 difficult" by the end, but the learning curve of the game basics is very simple. Like other great 
 games it is ieasy to learn and very hard to master. The combat, while simple once you are in battles, 
 takes long preperation to have any chance.
  
  I think it is even better than Pharoh, in which many of the later scenearios turn into "I'm just 
 waiting for more stone to finish my monument."
  
  The only downsides to the entire game are: having to continually apease the Gods (with the patch 
 you can take care of that) & the stupid path of merchants- people go to stores, not the other way 
 around.
  
  All in all a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2005 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I've always been interested in the history of the Romans, and was glad to find a good city building 
 game with that theme. 
  
  I don't know why, there are only a few maps and campaigns to play, yet this is one of the few games 
 that I always come back to. I would think that after all these years I would have been bored to 
 death of this game, but it still manages to be entertaining every time I play it. 
  
  The gameplay is similar to other city-building games in the fact that you build a city! Unlike 
 most other games of the genre, Caesar III goes much deeper than that; if semi-complex games are 
 not your thing, Caesar III is probably not a game you will enjoy. Complex in, you must meet the 
 constant demands of your citizens, while trying to make a profitable economy and trying to keep 
 the Gods pleased. Of course, if the map calls for it, you may also need to protect your citizens 
 with a Roman legion, which means you either have to make your own weapons or import them. That's 
 just the simplified version though, Caesar III is certainly a game that will keep you busy. 
  
  The graphics and sound are nothing compared to the standards of today, so there's not much 
 to say there. Caesar III gives a nice representation of Roman buildings though, with numerous levels 
 of housing. There's nothing spectacular about the sound; about the only thing to really say about 
 it is it keeps you well informed of what's happeneing. 
  
  Caesar III is a great game, not amazing graphics or sound, but the gameplay is very entertaining. 
 Since the game is bound to be cheap by now, I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoys city-building 
 games in the slightest.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Hans-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2005 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  Its a strategy game. You point, click, check stats... and well, click some more. The good thing 
 about this game is that it has the same feel of pharaoh, which is one of my favorite strategy/city 
 building games. It might have something to do with being made by the same people...
  
  Any ways, its pretty simple to play once you learn the basics, but it goes far deeper than one 
 would expect. It takes some real practice and skill to make a city that actually works. Mapping 
 out different sections for industry and housing is hard. All in all though, its very well done.
 
  
  Graphics 
  
  They are passable. Nothing really fancy here, just enough to differentiate one thing from another. 
 
  
  Sound 
  
  The sounds of the city, the background music, the people talking... all done, for the most part, 
 well. But things get repetitive, and fast. I found myself turning off the roman inspired music 
 and just listened to my own stuff. Clicking on people becomes a mistake, since you end up hearing 
 different people say the same exact thing, for years upon years. 
  
  Value 
  
  The campaign type of mode last a long time, it will keep you occupied for hours. Once you beat 
 the main game you can setup a random map game and beat those. It fun never ends in this game... 
 well, it does, but that doesn't mean the game is unplayable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suzabbe
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 19, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Very good strategy game overall that will take you forever to play. I very much enjoyed Caesar 
 III even if you must spend a very long time building your province in order to gain any real accomplishments. 
 You are a governor in Ancient Rome who is given a piece of land to build into a great city. Be 
 forewarned, you must not only appease the Roman Gods at all times but Caesar as well. The Gods 
 will punish you with bad crops or treacherous weather but if you put off a request by Caesar or 
 simply try to ignore his instruction and play your own game he will send in his legions and destroy 
 everything you've spent the last 3 days building. Don't upset Caesar, always stay in his favor. 
 Build farms, housing and markets to start your settlement. After a while (and I mean a long while) 
 you will be able to build your little town into a luscious city complete with bathes, plazas, theatres, 
 aqueducts, amphitheatres and many more luxurious elements. Be sure to trade goods with other cities 
 and collect enough taxes from the wealthy citizens of your province to balance the books. As you 
 gain favor with Caesar you move up in Roman society. Overall I've spent more time in this game 
 than any other but it is well worth it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 19, 2004 9:43 am PT
Review:  Tis was just to be a change from other games I had been playing. I wanted to try some other strat 
 games. 
  
  I was suprised that I like it a lot.
  You start with a teaching mode giving you the tools and advice on how to build a city. Step by 
 step you learn more and more till you get assignments from Caesar that you must complete. Untill 
 if you do well you can become Caesar yourself which the game ends in the campagne mode.
  
  In the other mode:
  
  You are given scenarios of different variety to accomplish.
  With different 
 maps wich you can get more online.
  
  Building schools, troops, baths, engineers, fire patrolls and much more to keep your city well 
 run is just part of the game. You can also build armies to defend city and send away in support 
 of the kingdom. It is fun to watch tem fight after you set them up.
  
  I get this game out again and again for a change of pace. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
