-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Caesar IV
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/caesar4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You can easily get lost in building a complex and thriving Roman city.
 cities feel alive with the hustle and bustle of everyday life.
 lots and lots of content to go through, and you can also download user-made scenarios.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Economy is a bit wonky and requires constant management to keep things going.
 building restrictions for walls and other defenses can be painful.
 be prepared for long load times and stability issues, and the game can be a system hog.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.6, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 1,145 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Vivendi Games
Developer: Tilted Mill
Genre: Historic City-Building
Date:     Sep 26, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
After an eight-year absence, the Caesar series returns with a slightly flawed but very engrossing 
 game about ancient city building. 

  Rome may not have been built in a day, but that's certainly part of the appeal of the Caesar series, 
 the long-running city-building strategy franchise that lets you build cities for the glory of Rome. 
 Though set thousands of years in the past, it turns out that the people of Rome had wants and needs 
 similar to our own, and coming up with solutions can be both entertaining and educating, in a way. 
 As the first new entry in eight years, Caesar IV updates the series to the 3D graphics age. Caesar 
 IV was developed by Tilted Mill, which itself is composed of veterans of previous Caesar games, 
 so the designers knew what they were doing. As a result, this new Caesar captures the spirit of 
 the earlier games quite well, though not without some quirks and issues.  

          Building a grand Roman city isn't easy, but that makes it all the more rewarding to see 
 the fruits of your labor flourish.     

  Your main goal in Caesar IV is to build thriving Roman cities while accomplishing a series of objectives. 
 For example, Rome may need a thriving port to supply goods to the Empire, or you may need to create 
 a cultural center to impress Rome's neighbors. Whatever the case, this usually means that you'll 
 start with an empty map and, from there, construct a working city. Trying to squeeze a functional 
 metropolis into the landscape isn't easy, though it can be rewarding.  

  Like most city-building games, Caesar IV is about setting up the interconnected chains that civilization 
 relies upon. You have to handle every detail, including housing, sanitation and health care, food 
 production and distribution, security, religion, and more. Having plenty of workers means nothing 
 if you can't keep them fed, nor does having lots of buildings if you don't have enough engineers 
 to maintain them. The sheer variety of structures that you can build is impressive, and one of 
 the satisfying moments in the game is when you do construct a self-sufficient city that produces 
 such a large variety of goods. There's something almost hypnotic about watching your workers and 
 citizens roam your city, go to work, buy goods, watch gladiator games, and more. It's not enough 
 to simply build structures, either, as you have to keep an eye on aesthetics. People, even poor 
 people, don't want to live near an ugly eyesore, which means building in buffer room between your 
 industrial areas and your residential areas or placing lots of decorative items such as plants 
 and statues to help improve the desirability of an area.  

  Caesar IV captures the class system of the Roman Empire ably. At the bottom are the plebs, who 
 toil in the fields and factories and have only basic needs, such as food and clothing. Next up 
 are the equites, or the middle class, who live in fancier structures and serve as the teachers, 
 tax collectors, and doctors of the Empire. As such, they get paid more and have basic and luxury 
 wants, such as furniture and wine. Finally, there are the nobles that live on huge estates. The 
 nobles don't work for a living, and they require basic, luxury, and exotic goods to stay happy, 
 but at least you can tax them to generate a fair chunk of your revenue. Any functional city needs 
 to have a mix of all three classes, which makes striking the balance challenging. You need nobles 
 because they're the only ones who can really be taxed, but to get nobles, you need to build a vast 
 infrastructure to support them. For instance, you must trade to get exotic goods that the nobles 
 require, and that means creating an export economy to generate something you can trade.  

          Your council of advisors will keep you up to date on the current wants and needs of the 
 city, so pay careful attention to what they're telling you.     

  The trade aspect is one of the ways in Caesar IV that your city can tie into the Roman world as 
 a whole. Instead of merely being an isolated satellite, you can open up trade ties with other cities. 
 Ships will come in to pick up and deliver goods, which can thus fuel your economic growth. On a 
 more pressing note, Rome will often make demands of you to deliver food, goods, or money. Fail 
 to keep up with Rome's demands, and your imperial rating will plummet, making it harder to win 
 certain scenarios, as well as putting you in danger of being replaced by Rome for your incompetence. 
 In that case, you can try placating the Senate with gifts. Of course, the easier method is simply 
 to keep up with Rome's demands, and that means building a strong economy.  

  Still, the economy can be finicky to manage, as bottlenecks can erupt in several places. Having 
 no spare warehouse space often means that products sit in the factories, waiting to be distributed, 
 and it's almost impossible to unload unwanted goods to make room, short of razing the warehouse 
 and building a new one. This can be avoided with a lot of micromanagement of the economy, as you 
 can tell warehouses to only stock so much of certain goods, but there ought to be a simpler way 
 of dealing with this, as well, like dumping products into someone else's hands.  

  Then there's the entire concept of building legions and defenses and defending the city from the 
 occasional barbarian horde. Simply put, constructing walls around your city is a pain thanks to 
 the strict building restrictions that often have you tear down and rebuild parts of your city to 
 squeeze in walls. With that said, it's a bit easier to simply build a fort and recruit a legion 
 to kill the pesky barbarians whenever they appear.  

  Caesar IV also manages to incorporate an online element into a traditionally single-player genre. 
 You won't be building cities alongside other players in a cooperative game, but Caesar IV does 
 let you challenge players in a couple of ways. Caesar's Challenge is for the veteran players who 
 want to determine who the best is. These are basically a series of challenges that require you 
 to create a city to generate the most money, highest scoring city, and so on. Your performance 
 on each scenario is ranked, with the top performer getting all the glory. If you're looking for 
 a less competitive challenge, the persistent online Empire allows you to build and upload cities. 
 The more cities that you build, the greater your overall Empire. You can then compare your cities 
 to those of other players on the official Caesar IV site.  

          Walls may keep the barbarians out, but it's easier to simply build legions to kill them. 
     

  Visually, Caesar IV has a solid look to it, though the graphics border a bit more on workmanlike 
 than on sheer beauty. Still, from a distance, it's easy to appreciate the sense of having a virtual 
 city come to life on your screen. There are some good-looking lighting and weather effects, as 
 well as reflective water, though dynamic shadows can cripple the overall performance. Disabling 
 shadows means the graphics lose a bit of their luster, but the game doesn't chug whenever you shift 
 the camera angle. However, two bigger issues are the lengthy long load times and the stability 
 problems, as the game froze up on us quite a bit, making the aforementioned load times even more 
 tedious. There's a musical score that blends in nicely in the background during the many hours 
 of gameplay, and you do get verbal feedback to how you're doing whenever you click on a citizen. 

  Despite some of the aforementioned flaws, Caesar IV can be an engrossing game at times. Each scenario 
 can easily take  hours  to accomplish, but somehow time flies by as you constantly struggle to 
 solve the next urban design challenge you're presented with. Between the game's campaigns, scenarios, 
 and (albeit unwieldy) scenario editor, there's a lot of content for any would-be Roman governor 
 to enjoy.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (50 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: minty294
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 3:47 am PT
Review:  Having played Caesar 3 to death i was overjoyed to hear that there was a Caesar 4 on the way. when 
 i first played the game i was glad to see the new graphics engine and the new updates however just 
 a few minutes in the game crashes, so i restart the game and it happens again. apparently alot 
 of people were having trouble and a patch was on the way, i wasnt happy at all, but when the patch 
 arrived i got it installed and have had no problems with it so far.
  
  There are many good and bad points about this game, for example the three different classes of 
 people are a good new feature, making it more realistic for example middle class people have middle 
 class jobs such as doctors where as the lower class have jobs such as farming. a bad point is still 
 the same as it was in caesar 3, citizens will not walk a few metres to the available entertainment, 
 so you have to build alot in close vicinity.
  
  this had to potential to be an amazing game but it just isnt. It is very good however do not get 
 me wrong, there are just small problems with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 15, 2009 10:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is good. Think that's the most fair and unbiased thing we can say about it. We like the 
 game, it appeals to that OCD city building and planning department director inside us. We dig the 
 Roman thing, really dig the whole adviser system... it's just...
  
  Eh... it gets old too quickly... and it's a bit on the annoying side.
  
  The whole idea is 
 you're suppose to balance your city as you start from basic structures on up. That's a bit more 
 tricky when you're looking to anticipate the space needed for new structures... how much food and 
 basic goods you have to support the city's growth, and some spacing junk so you know the coverage 
 of certain buildings. 
  
  The biggest thing that bugs us, beside how certain maps are all twisted so you build diagonally 
 even if you flip the camera, is that one still doesn't quite know what the hell is going on. The 
 homes are helpful in that they say what they need...
  
  Example: So yeah, your insula needs basic goods to grow to the next level... it's right next to 
 the basic good market... you are building basic goods... the insula across town and the insula 
 behind it both have triple figure basic goods... they're all bright green with happiness... but 
 for some reason this insula's just not growing. What the hell?
  
  Your resource adviser will show you what you got, what you're stockpiling, all that jazz... but 
 nobody can explain the deal with that. Eh.
  
  They give you a little radius indicator for water and prettiness, but nothing else for anything 
 else. You're suppose to guess if your building engineer is close enough to prevent your junk from 
 collapsing. Little things like that are really annoying.
  
  There's an overall clunkiness with some of the building process. Tilting things, not lining things 
 up well, and what not. Graphics are decent... just that it all gets pretty old after staring at 
 it for a while. It's sort of like the Sims, once you make a house and lay it out and see all the 
 furniture and character interactions you've had enough.
  
  Know this game has a whole bunch of features that try to increase it's fun factor longevity. There's 
 some create your own map stuff... switching up the scenarios... eh. Frankly there isn't much more 
 than can be gotten out of it. This game isn't detailed or open ended enough to compete with a sim 
 city... it's a good city builder game that gets a tip of the hat for the roman motif.
  
  We have an above average rig and this game tends to lag from time to time... hate having to wait 
 around for the game to either resume or crash.
  
  Still like the game and all... probably... won't... be... playing it again, but still, it was ok 
 while it lasted. Just sort of wish that for a game called Caesar IV you'd get to play as Caesar... 
 eh.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2009 11:03 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Caesar IV for almost a month now and the basic city-building gameplay that I've 
 seen from much of the games in this genre (Emperor Rise of the Middle Kingdom etc) still remains. 
 
  
  There's nothing wrong with keeping stuff that works, and in Caesar IV what works works quite solidly. 
 The graphics have been given a 3D redo, complete with HDR dynamic lighting and shadows. Clicking 
 on individual citizens still brings up their cartoonish chatter and complaints. House evolution, 
 expansion and trade are all still here. 
  
  If there was ever one noteworthy complaint that can be argued against the game, it's the system 
 requirements. An 8800 GTS, 4 GB memory and a C2D processor still slows down once one's city becomes 
 fills up the map and with a population of 20,000 or so. It is true that this game can be a 'system 
 hog.'
  
  While no new innovation, Caesar IV is an excellent game if you're in the mood for building a city 
 and have lots of time to kill. Micro-management haters should stay away. I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Dark_Hart
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  So recently I've been playing quite a bit of Caesar 4. It was released late last year but I was 
 hesitant to pick up, since other titles were far more alluring. So with the drought of strategy 
 games out at the moment I decided to pick it up.
  
  My experience with Sierra's city building games was isolated to the old Pharaoh game. I loved it. 
 It was a game of perfect balance, of course I rarely complied with this. Since I was still in single 
 digits, I didn't bother reading the manual nor even doing the tutorials. But it didn't stop me 
 from having fun.
  
  But now I'm older and can finally attempt at the playing the game how it was meant to be played. 
 Thankfully my previous knowledge is still applicable to Caesar 4, since it has almost the exact 
 same controls and premise as Pharoah.
  
  Houses attract people, then you supply them with water, jobs, luxuries. It's not exactly an exciteing 
 game, but it's a fun one. Yes there are armies in the game, but they play a minor part.
  
  It's all about giving the people what they need, healthcare, food etc. And of course appeasing 
 the Gods, and also answering Rome's requests when asked.
  
  Basically it is a great game for those of you enjoy the economic and culture sides of Civilization, 
 I highly recommend picking it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:05 am PT
Review:  Caesar IV really blew my mind in terms of Graphics. The Gameplay is pretty much exactly the same 
 from number 3. So The Learning time isn't really all that much.
  
  I love the fact that you can change the camera angle ANY WAY YOU WANT!!! that's just a fantastic 
 feature. One that made me buy Black And White. The Buildings are detailed and the animation is 
 awesome. Playing this game on full Graphics (if your PC can handle it) is really just a joy to 
 look at. 
  
  The annoying part of this game is the Campaigns. It really is a little dull, but then again, you 
 can only do so much with this type of Simulation game.
  
  It's really hard to find that exact balance between to many workers and to little. I think, in 
 all the playing, I've managed to get that balance 100% only once. But then you get a house that 
 expands, and some dude tells you "you don't have enough jobs for all of your workers". 
  
  All and all I really did like the game. Sometimes I got annoyed at my "helpers", but then you must 
 reallize, they are just looking out for Rome... Building an empire from scratch is truly rewarding. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackeagle84
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I started playing Caesar IV a couple days ago. It's really grows on you as you understand more 
 and more about the mechanics of this game. 
  Don't listen to the critics and the people who rated it one obvious are just trolls, thou this 
 game for a new player will be very frustrating, but once you understand the theory behind this 
 game, it will become very fun and addictive. Thou, some minor improvement is needed
  
  Pros:
  -Beautiful graphic, very detailed street, people's house, factories, etc.
  -Roma's demanding 
 added extra challenge and fun.
  -A large verity of industries.
  -Realistic simulation of the citizens.
  
  Cons: -controls need more polish
  -infrastructures' 
 coverage is lacking before they are developed.
  -terrain can not be flattened,
  -some rocks can not be removed which is ridiculous. -game will become very slow once you have a 
 sized city.
  -no sandbox mode, like the one in SimCity 4 where you can build multiple cities and trade with 
 each other
  
  Summery:
  and It's still a great game. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aksoss
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2008 2:51 am PT
Review:  Caesar 4 is the last installment in the series of Caesar games released by Sierra. I've played 
 
  
  I recommend getting this game if you've played Caesar 3 or Pharaoh before, and have experienced 
 their challenges, and have enjoyed them. Not everyone has the taste or the skill to play this genre.
 
  
  Caesar 4 improves on many elements of its predecessors, such as the fictitious 'walker' concept, 
 which fixes an upper limit to the size of your city. At the same time, some concepts, such as the 
 micro-placement of roads can be annoying. At the same time, the game hogs an excessive amount of 
 resources as the city becomes immensely large. The gameplay also tends to become pretty similar 
 in progressive levels.
  
  Caesar 4 is easier than Pharaoh, and much easier than Caesar 3, at least on the Normal difficulty 
 level, so I've rated it accordingly. The early stage of the game requires the most skill and attention. 
 In one strategy, you can pause the game and build your whole city in the beginning. If your design 
 is good, then all you have to do is fast forward the game, and supervise, mothballing industries, 
 adding colonies etc. as and when the time comes. Since this strategy works for nearly all the maps 
 on a normal difficulty setting, it takes the fizz out of the challenge of city developing offered 
 by its predecessors. Admittedly, I haven't replayed the game on a higher difficulty setting, due 
 to the similarity of gameplay in all the levels.
  
  I don't know what gamespot had against this game, it gave it a 6 for sound. The score of the game 
 is light, varies with the size of your city, and is appropriate for a city builder set in the Roman 
 era. 
  
  I for one quite enjoyed Caesar 4. Again, if you're thinking of getting this game, try playing Caesar 
 3 or Pharaoh first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrmime777
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that GameSpot and almost any other review site has something against 
 city builders. Seriously. This is the best city builder there is, yet they rate it at a 7.7. A 
 mere good! Ugh, I wish they'd take it in the context of its own small genre instead of the myriad 
 RTS and TBS's out there.
  
  Anywho, this is about as good as it gets. City builders are an acquired taste, and if you enjoy 
 the process of painstakingly managing the inner workings of every building in your city to see 
 it bustling with trade, every day life, and a bit of military thrown in, you will LOVE Caesar. 
 It really sucks you in. The graphics certainly help!
  
  The gameplay is similar to its predecessor, in that you naturally start small with somewhat simple 
 but nevertheless important foundations. Then as the game gets more complex, you have to do a bit 
 more to keep it going. This just is part of the pricetag of managing Rome! You have the typical 
 areas of buildings and managing things: building housing structures, providing services (entertainment, 
 sanitation, taxes, food, industry) , trading with other provinces, and other various odds and ends. 
 It's all quite interesting to experiment with.
  
  Graphics are fantastic, bringing the city to life with relatively low requirements. My Pentium 
 D 3.4ghz (stock speed) with 2gbs RAM and an x1600 pro are able to run this game on high texture, 
 low antialiasing, bloom, and medium water effects. I'd say bloom and high texture are the two highest 
 priorities to get the game looking its best.
  
  Military is an afterthought, and the game's only real flaw. It's not very well designed and is 
 there just because you can't think of Rome without thinking Roman Legion. However, it's kinda fun 
 to see your armies training and whacking away at an enemy. The concept just isn't very well explored, 
 and has no real depth to it.
  
  Overall verdict: Get this game if you are a city building nut with even just a decent computer! 
 You can't go wrong for the money, certainly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtbofm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Caesar IV has an impressive pedigree  Caesar II still lives on many a hard drive and played with 
 affection and Tilted Mill the producers are the born-again Impressions Games, the undisputed masters 
 of city building games. They went in new directions with Immortal Cities: Children of the Nile 
 and one would have hoped that there were lots, good and bad to be learnt from that.
  
  Caesar IV tries so hard to be a good game but just cannot manage it. In essence, your task is to 
 build a city in a variety of locations across the Roman Empire, from Arretium to Zaragossa. You 
 must simultaneously tempt in workers, get an economy happening, defend against Visigoths, Ostrogoths 
 and assorted other Goths, appease the gods, promote Roman culture, and respond to Caesar's not 
 infrequent demands for goods to satisfy the limitless hunger of the Senate and the People of Rome. 
 
  
  That does sound a lot to do (and it is!) but one of the strengths of Caesar IV is the common sense 
 and logic of it. This was an avowed goal of Tilted Mill and they succeeded well. In Caesar III 
 and its kin, for example, buildings used the fiction of "walkers." Build a school somewhere and 
 it sent out a walker. If he found a residence, then the school had employees. The school would 
 then send out happy children and any homes they passed derived the educational benefit of that 
 school. Highly unrealistic (I never learnt anything watching children coming home from school) 
 and it had a dramatic impact on how you laid out your city. You avoided intersections at all costs 
 as you could not control where the walkers went.
  
  Caesar IV is much more realistic. If a school is in a reasonable distance of people looking for 
 a job, it has workers. If it is in a reasonable distance of homes looking for education, they go 
 there. Just like life and very simple  brilliant! It makes a nice improvement to gameplay as you 
 can lay out streets and neighbourhoods in a more realistic fashion.
  
  Another plus to the game is it has captured the Roman class structure well. The threefold divisions 
 of plebeians (blue collar workers basically) , equites (white collar) and patrician (ok, so it should 
 be senatorial  they are the guys who do nothing at all but pay whopping big tax income to you) 
 add a nice twist to the game. As you would expect, the working class plebeians do not ask for much, 
 put up with less than ideal conditions and do all the crap jobs. Patricians are very demanding 
 seeking all manner of goods and lovely domestic conditions but do nothing at all. You must balance 
 the needs of each class.
  
  There is a huge range of buildings to construct and a large set of options for prettying things 
 up to let you build the Roman Civis of your dreams. At least you should be able to and this where 
 the grumbles begin.
  
  No escaping it  this can be an ugly game. Given that many players into city-builders are drawn 
 by the aesthetics of their city this is a bad flaw. It is like a number of different art teams 
 were involved in designing the buildings and never talked to each other- buildings just clash in 
 style. Even lashing out on beautification, the cities you can build are hardly attractive.
  
  To that you can couple a fairly bland sound score. Sure, it does not intrude on the game but 
 it is so feeble and so quiet it might as well not be there. Moreover, for some puzzling reason, 
 you can no longer obtain tips from your citizens. In every other city builder, clicking on a citizen 
 told you what they liked or disliked about the city  not here!
  
  Another gripe is the array of demands from Rome. Most city builders ramp up the difficulty a little 
 by sending you requests for certain goods to be shipped off to the capital. These put a small hurdle 
 in your planning and can disrupt your distribution of the desired goods. Caesar IV goes into a 
 frenzy about this. It is nothing to have three or four demands at once, of absurd levels and set 
 at absurd time. In a recent game, Rome demanded 100 weapons from when my town was less than a year 
 old. I had to divert workers to a set of iron mines, timber yards (to fuel the smelters) , weaponsmiths 
 and warehouses to meet the demand. I yet did not even have my food infrastructure operational. 
 There is no relent from them in some scenarios  you never have a moment to work on the city as 
 you want it because you are leaping about answering demands.
  
  It seems silly to me to have gone to all the trouble to make the working of the city so realistic 
 and then make these absurd and unrealistic demands. A challenge is good  but it should add to 
 the fun of the game, not detract from it; I found myself simply frustrated by them.
  
  One last complaint is bugs. The game is so riddled with them you have to question if the game was 
 tested at all. A bulky 13.8MB patch seems to have made no difference at all. The game locks. It 
 crashes. It has features that do not work. A number of times I have had to abandon a city and start 
 again in the hope of dodging some bug. 
  
  On the whole, this game will just frustrate anyone who does not already REALLY love city builder 
 games  and even those are going to have their moments. You have to overlook the bugs, the ugliness 
 and the lack of plain fun. The game has its good points but they get swamped. A shame because a 
 definite lack of polish is all that holds back what could have been a worthy addition to the rank 
 of city builder games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordx67
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 5, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  OK, Siera has made some good games like Empire Earth and so on, so, I made the fateful decision 
 to buy Caesar IV. The intro made me think that the game would ACTUALLY be fun. Reality: alright, 
 I'm a new player so I should try the tutorial. But what's this? There are three difficulty levels???? 
 Tutorials are supposed to teach you about the game!!! So on one of the tutorials, I LOST! What's 
 the point!!!!!!!!!! There are also some other issues with the game. 
  In most normal games, a market helps you distribute food in you're city. Since Caesar 4 is not 
 a normal game, obviously markets won't ditribute food. Everybody in my city is unhappy! And then 
 there are those annoying advisors that say 'sire the people are starving". I. KNOW. THAT.
  In the game I'm told that first you need to built a farm. Then you get plebs to work on it. Then, 
 you build a storehouse. Then you need plebs working at the storehouse and you need plebs bringing 
 food to the storehouse. Then you need to change the food to something the people will buy. So, 
 you need to build a wineyard to make wine. Then, you've got plebs to work at the wineyard and plebs 
 to get the grapes from the storehouse. Then you need to build a market and plebs to work at the 
 market. Then you need yet MORE plebs to bring wine from the wineyard. After all that, I've spent 
 half my money, there are almost no more plebs and the whole operation took ten minutes. Ah well, 
 my citizens should be happy to have wine and bread. So I checked on a house. They said "we are 
 hungry we demand FOOD!" After an infinite of work, they STILL don't have food!!!!!!!!!!!! So, unless 
 you're as rich as Bill Gates, don't waste your money on this pile of junk.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: janis476
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  I am long time city builder fan and this game was good but not quite great. The grafics and detailed 
 mangement network was some of the best I've seen. I found building space to be way too tight and 
 spent way to much time and energy trying to squeezet things in! What I like about Caesar is that 
 there is no need to build up huge armies and watch your grat city get domilished by someone else's 
 army! I would have liked more accomplishment awards than what was offered however, there were alot 
 of great buildings and I was heppy with the many choices and the different building levels and 
 upgrades! I for one wish this genre would get a kick start. There hasn't been many city building 
 games in recent years and I wish the devlopers would get working on something to energize us!! 
 If any developers are reading this my suggestion would be to take a simple game like virtual villagers 
 and build on the concept. Now that would be a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacoeatingmonky
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 25, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I have played both Caesar II and III, and this is by far the best of the three. It takes what is 
 so great about the Caesar series and improves upon it tenfold. The graphics have improved immensely 
 over the last title, the gameplay has become smoother, there's more content and control. This is 
 exactly what I'd expect from a great series like Caesar. The only thing that I don't like is the 
 pathetic army controls. You can't really tell them what to do, just kinda give them suggestions. 
 Overall this is a great game that moves forward in the series and takes it to new heights. If you 
 like the Caesar series, don't hesitate to purchase this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commanderkai
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 17, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  On the outside, face value. It's not too bad beauty wise. The colors were nice and it matched well 
 with the feeling. The buildings were nicely designed and better yet you got full 360 rotation. 
 It also had a diverse grouping of goods like glass, clothing, olive oil, and pottery being options 
 for basic goods (however only three were allowed on a specific map at any one time) and same goes 
 with luxury goods and exotic goods. I also enjoyed the fact that you can ban plebs (aka the poor) 
 from buying from some shops you want to designate just for rich. These little details were beautiful 
 and helped make it unique, but it lost its uniqueness from the older games.
  
  Minor Complaints:
  
  You can't tax the lower and middle class. WHY? Sure there are sales taxes... which 
 barely make you anything since you only get maybe...6% of the worth of the good you just sold, 
 which is about maybe 2-3 denarii for pottery. That isn't a lot. The lower and middle classes are 
 money that is being lost considering they are the ones which advance so quickly
  
  Lack of food choices. In Pharaoh and Emperor, there were numerous food types available that represented 
 what they ate in their culture. In this game, there are three. Wheat, Vegetables and Meat. I even 
 remember Caesar III having at least 5 food types (Wheat, Fruits, Vegetables, Hogs, Fish) Sure wheat 
 is important, but I mean, give us history. Let us grow... lemons or some other citrus fruit that 
 the Romans enjoyed, or catch fish, or grow a variety of vegetables and fruits which were common 
 to their diets. The excessive demands. Okay I get that you need to fulfill these, but they can 
 get excessive. WE WANT 100 WHEAT! WE WANT SOMETHING YOU'RE NOT MAKING SINCE WE NEVER TOLD YOU TO 
 MAKE THIS BECAUSE WE TOLD YOU TO DO EVERYTHING Yada yada yada. I stopped caring. I had the army 
 called in too. It doesn't matter. If I'm trying to provide for 12 different industries, give me 
 a break not providing for clothing since you planned worse than me.
  
  Lack of housing, insulae (Roman apartments) are way too small while things like tent cities or 
 slums you were used to seeing in almost every city sim doesn't exist anymore since there are only 
 three different building types. Villas, Dumas (I think, basically middle class homes) and insulae. 
 Didn't feel as Roman since small towns had tenements. Major Complaints against Caesar IV:
  
  There is no room. At all. On smaller maps you're squishing everything together because the 
 maps are so poorly designed. And one little rock that you cannot remove will block you from building 
 something important. Usually in the older city builders that meant that you just ignore it since 
 there was plenty of room to do whatever you like. On here that means you might need to build a 
 warehouse next to housing (not a good idea) .
  
  Going along with no room, is that the buildings are massive sometimes. For the lack of room given, 
 some buildings, like Entertainment buildings are oversized. I understand that these buildings were 
 huge in real life, HOWEVER this isn't real life, I don't got the vast plains of Southern Gaul, 
 or the hilly grasslands of Italia, or the deserts of Africa to build on, I got a small piece of 
 land that you force me to limit myself to. The grid that they used made it impossible to quickly 
 build a city and made it a task and chore to place a home or a well. This is due to that a small 
 nudge of the mouse will not put you next to the road, and the accuracy demanded of you is frustrating 
 and bothersome after 10 minutes. Well... all I can think of for now. Just avoid it people 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tziganu_36
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 2, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Short..
  
  No feeling at so ever..
  Encumbered micro management.
  Disproportioned buildings sizes. I especialy detest the tiny insulae .
  Tiny maps, it force you 
 to buid the city in one way and one way only. Not only this but the game actually count on you 
 to do so, if you manage to have a diferent city than the programmers want, you'll be in trouble 
 with the scripted events:)
  
  What I miss the most are the beautiful red roofs, yellow grain farm and so on... like Pharaoh, 
 the general colour of the game is light brown and gray (or it's so boring that I begin to see everything 
 in gray-brown:) ) )
  It's a model of a city so the colours should be bright and inspiring... I know that in real life 
 the building are full of dust and discolored by the sun, but in a game I want bright colours:)
 
  
  And yes, another great series bite the dust:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeadrockBeats
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 18, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I think the mistake that many people make when writing about Caesar IV, on this site, on others, 
 in game magazines, pretty much everywhere, is the direct comparison to Caesar III. After all, it's 
 the sequel, right? The problem is that Caesar III has already seen two different sequels, namely 
 Pharaoh and Emperor, which were set in different eras and different cultures, but were in fact 
 sequels to the Caesar series (by the same company, based on the same exact methods of gameplay) . 
 And these two games had already expanded and improved quite well on the basic mechanics of Caesar 
 III.
  
  Unfortunately, in Tilted Mill's self-conceited race for a 3D City-building game, they had completely 
 trampled on their past achievements (actually, Impression's achievements, but Tilted Mill and Impressions 
 are largely the same people under a different name) . Caesar IV is little more than Caesar III was, 
 aside from the obvious difference in the move to 3D, which is in my opinion a grave mistake, but 
 more on that later.
  
  Perhaps the greatest triumph of both Pharaoh and Emperor, and the reason that they were so much 
 fun to play even for those who had played Caesar through a hundred time, was that they had added 
 elements to the game which served to immerse us into the specific periods and the cultures in which 
 they were set. In Pharaoh, many missions revolved around the construction of major temples, tombs 
 and pyramids, by careful management of slave labor and the manufacturing of exquisite goods to 
 be placed in the constructed monument. The specific method of working the Nile's inundation was 
 a stroke of brilliance on the developers' part, and was both fun and educational. In Emperor, elements 
 of authentic Chinese city-planning were introduced, such as the walls that surrounded residential 
 neighbourhoods, separating them from bustling market areas, a key component of ancient Chinese 
 civil engineering. Also Emperor had great emphasis on political relations between cities, the important 
 element of Feng-Shui in building placement, as well as the introduction of gods who intervened 
 directly, in their human forms, like Bodhidarma who could actually fight for the player if he was 
 appeased appropriately, much in line with Chinese philosophy and ancient culture.
  
  And here comes Caesar IV, all shiny and rotatable, and fails to achieve even a fraction of the 
 immersion that we who have been following the genre have grown used to. Obviously, constructing 
 Roman cities is by definition an immersion into Roman culture (the moment you place down a bathhouse 
 pretty much distinguishes you as a Roman builder) , but as far as the cultural significance of the 
 player's actions in this game, the distance and alienation reign supreme. Caesar IV will task your 
 nerves to such an extent, that you won't even care who's city you are building or for what purpose 
 - you'll just want to get the city functional, and you might spend hours trying to fit in all the 
 parts. And then when it's finally functional you'll realize that you can't possibly fulfill your 
 goals without some major reconstruction... By the time you've finally solved all the little problems 
 in your design, the mission will probably be over and you'll just be glad you can finally go to 
 the next one, with no real involvement in the city you've just toiled to build other than the petty 
 scrounging for free squares and clay units. Which brings me to my second real disappointment with 
 the game - the move to 3D has perhaps made the game more visually attractive (In my opinion, it 
 REALLY failed to do that as well, but I'll concede that too many gamers today regard 2D as going 
 back to the 18th century) , but it has opened a can of worms that Tilted Mill have failed miserably 
 to contain. In a game where every piece of land is crucial (and in many missions you'll be screaming 
 for just a bit more land) , the new handling for building placement, road construction, and many 
 other functions in the game, are so utterly confusing and not player friendly to the least. You're 
 expected to plan a city, to build a well-oiled machine that could overcome the problems constantly 
 thrown at you, but you are not given the tools to measure, to estimate, heck, you're guessing your 
 placements half the time. Buildings can also be placed at 45 degrees, which is great theoretically, 
 but in practice causes the player to waste more space than ever on strange angles and corners which 
 can't be filled with anything but large unsightly patches of bushes. Quantifying the effect of... 
 well, ANYTHING in this game, is a guesstimate that has gone completely out of proportion. In other 
 words, you're a civil engineer with no rulers, levels, or even strings and sticks. You have to 
 eyeball everything, and unless you build it all first and then sort it out as you go, you're going 
 to end up tearing down half your city to make room for, well, the other half. But in fact we've 
 never had measuring tools in these games, nothing fancy anyway. But in a contained 2D environment 
 it was far easier for both developer and player to accurately and easily get a sense of size, distance 
 and space for construction, being able to truly plan ahead and add as you go. I can't begin to 
 explain how frustrated I was the first time I tried placing walls in Caesar IV, only to find that 
 they collide with all sorts of invisible barriers created by the landscape, other buildings, pretty 
 much everything, forcing me to redesign an entire section of the city just so I could fit in a 
 couple of stone bricks.
  
  And what was so bad with 2D Graphics? The artwork for some of the previous city-building games, 
 SimCity included, has been spectacular over the years. Today, resolutions are often high enough 
 to allow artists to really go wild. And heck, even a hybrid 2D/3D game (fixed perspective, 3D models) 
 would've been far more manageable than what Caesar IV has brought us. It's not about 3D graphics 
 being bad per-se, but about the developer's enthusiasm to give us a free-roaming 3D environment 
 at the expense of it being user-friendly. If you're not a big fan of Tangram, stay clear of Caesar 
 IV. The triangle won't fit.
  
  There are so many different things that Tilted Mill could've done with the series, but they chose 
 to give us the same old thing, and disregard all the innovations that have already been made just 
 so they could say their game was in full 3D. And for someone who has been waiting so long for a 
 worthy sequel in the genre, I must say I feel cheated. Insulted, even.
  
  Bottom Line: Same lady in a new dress, and the dress doesn't fit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballintinius
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Caesar takes a step forward into the 3D world with a new version of a great city building sim with 
 Caesar IV. Now you would think that it would be a whole new rewrite of the game... but fortunately... it's 
 not. Now don't get me wrong, it's still the great Caesar City Building Sim that we know of. In 
 fact it is a fully updated version of Caesar III. With the exception of a 3D world graphics and 
 an addition of some key buildings for added realism, this game is Caesar III... right down to the 
 music. I know, I know... don't fix what's not broken. And you are absolutely right. But damn it... they 
 still broke it.
  
  The game itself is good. The scenarios are more challenging, the world aspect of the game is above 
 great and the atmosphere is excellent. But if you don't have an up to date machine, with all the 
 right hardware... you just can't play this game. Even with a 1G of RAM and a flaming 256 Video card, 
 and a top notch AMD 64 processor... the game still lags if too much is on the plate. This doesn't 
 make for a good gaming experience. No sir, not at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy994
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  Ceasar three is a awesome game there is nothing boring sure there are a few flaws and stuff but 
 every game has flaws. i cant belivev the reiews on here i hated the demo for this game but i played 
 it a my friends house and loved it from the beginning and there wasn't a bor in it. some of these 
 medicore reviews jsut hurt the selling of this great game i hate u people who do the meociore crap- 
 i need 18 more words so i just wentlike this uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh 
 uh uh uh uh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhiti
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 10, 2007 1:58 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of Caesar III and Pharaoh and have been expecting this game for so long. However, 
 after playing Caesar IV for a week, I asked myself Where is the fun playing this game? Of course, 
 the 3D graphic looks nice, but thats still not nice enough. Camera rotation is also a problem 
 that needs to be solved. Furthermore, in Pharaoh, I can click and hear some funny comments from 
 the citizens, and that adds some Life to the game. In Caesar IV, I can rarely do that. All I 
 hear is boring comments. So what this game lacks is Life, and that makes it boring playing this 
 game. I can play Pharaoh for the whole day and night, but I can just play Caesar IV and stop for 
 doing something else after finishing each mission because there is nothing that hooks me to the 
 game like building the Great Pyramid in Pharaoh. In city building game, its not the 3D Graphic 
 that counts, but its the game play and Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  I've been a great fan of city builders,&amp; the historical cb-s I like the most are Zeus-Master 
 of Olympus &amp; Pharaoh. I've been waiting for Caesar IV for ages, but after CivCity Rome dissappointed, I 
 wasn't so sure... So here comes Caesar IV. The graphics are nice, but the water looks terrible, so 
 they'll get a 9. The sound is good, but the one in Glory of the Roman Empire was better, so it'll 
 get a 9. The gameplay is preatty complex, but the camera is the most stupid &amp; annoyng I've ever 
 seen (the one in CivCity Rome is great) , the maps are very small, some buildings are too big,&amp; 
 the residential areas need about 5-6 houses per city. That sucks. So 7 to 8 for it. The mission &amp; 
 goals are nice, but a lottle repetitive &amp; too Caesar III like-ish. So, Caesar IV is good, but 
 Zeus is still the Master of Historical City Builders. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brain110
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 10, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I'm a pretty big fan of Builder games, and I've played my own lot of them, 
 and after dropping my other latest Builder game: CivCity: Rome, I got this. I remember Caesar III 
 was one of my favourite builder games of all time, it was straight forward, simple, and just fun. 
 When I found out Caesar IV was coming out, I couldn't wait to get it. So I did.
  
  I started the game for the first time, was kind of unimpressed with the intro movie, I mean by 
 2006/2007, you'd think the graphics and physics of intro's would be better, but they weren't.
 
  
  After starting to play the actual game, I was disappointed so much, I actually had to leave an 
 unfinished mission. I never do that. No, I wasn't losing, I was bored. The economy kind of is unreal 
 and just doesn't work, the game doesn't indicate how far something can be placed in order for it 
 to still work, the worker-distribution was poor, and the way plebs get their needs was hardly acceptable. 
 The game takes awhile to really start up, and once you start playing it, you feel like you are 
 FORCED to play it, seeing something not working, and having to fix it. That's how the whole mission 
 will work, and once you're done it, you look back, and don't feel proud at all, wanting to just 
 go onto the next mission and kind of 'get it over with'. There are even noticeable and visible 
 BUGS in the game, such as building roads, aqueducts, clearing areas, and more.
  
  In short, the game was a disastrous disappointment after Caesar III, and a waste of my time. If 
 anyone actually likes the game, I strongly suggest getting CivCity: Rome, it's almost exactly like 
 Caesar IV, but way better, mainly because of the Tilt and Gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danieldsouza
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 1:00 am PT
Review:  The game is cluttered. Too many things are going on. its a complete mess. easy to lose track of things. not 
 worth playing for hours building cities over and over again with same objectives. rotating the buildings 
 to face the right direction is difficult and annoying. military units are small in number. changes 
 of day and night and seasons are irritating and blinding. can lose interest easily. Half way through 
 the game i lost interest and gave up. caesar 3 was simple, and easy to learn. but the objectives 
 in the caesar series remain same from versions to versions. i liked emperor and zues better than 
 caesar. on the upside, the game has very good graphics. some of the things like providing goods to 
 different classes and religion aspects like impressing the gods are simplified as compared to the 
 previous version. Aesthetics are much better than caesar 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevearno
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  The graphics and the actual gameplay of the game is excellent. Its one of thos games that tries 
 to cater to the user that wants and interconnecting parts. It is a true hierarchical system. Certain 
 buildings and facilities for the peasants, merchants and for the rich and royal.
  This game has a lot of variety in it, but for me it was too much variety. The reason is that, for 
 instance: theres like 10 different resources, multiple buildings to collect these rescources, warehouses 
 to store different categories of resources, and different markets for different classes of people 
 having to be in range of their set of houses.
  Hopefully you see what i mean, and that is just a very small part of the game. For me is too much 
 time to learn all the different interconnections of all the buildings and classes to be any fun.
 
  
  So i say, if you having a passing interest in real time, stay away from this, or it will ruin RTS 
 forever for you.
  If you have a keen interest and the patience to learn all its various aspects, then you'll probably 
 love this game.
  
  Thank you for reading this
  Yours Sincerely
  Terry J Stevens 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdsu_master
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  this game isn't for weak systems, gotta have at least amd 64+ and 2 gig of memory at least a nvidea 
 5700 video card. if u got that weak of a system then this game will run totally fine. where u get 
 the crashes I havent a clue. maybe u should shut off your porn and messenger services lol.
  
  as for your sound grade for the game.... give me a break, it's Rome, not one of the many stupid 
 very boring first person shooter games or fantasy roleplaying games.
  
  THis game u MUST THINK before u do something. Oh and as for the comment about how hard it is to 
 make a thriving economy.. IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE THAT WAY.... stupid dorks now-a-days.. always gotta 
 have everything handed to them on a platter. heavens if you have to use that 3 pounds of matter 
 under your skull cap. or maybe the reviewer shoudl get outside more often.
  
  I doubt that the reviewers at gamespot can fathom this idea, but it seriously much more difficult 
 to build a thriving city than it is to destroy a nation. But hey most americans who play games 
 have it way too easy in real life. Yeah and this review is written by an american. oh yeah almost 
 forgot about the short attention spans of lots of people that do play games. all flash and bells 
 and whistles is just that. this game has lots of substance to it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALaGa
Rating: 5.1
Date: Dec 21, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  This is a strategy game that wants to look good, but it cant compare to better games in the same 
 genre like Medieval II total war. The intro movie is a joke and the menu looks like something from 
 a 1985 PC game.
  All you do is build houses, as your inhabitants keep complaining about everything. The patricians 
 want to live close to everything, but with such small maps and the lack of money, thats impossible. 
 There are place for everyone to work, but producing goods take forever. There is not enough money, 
 and if you try to build a city that satisfy the inhabitants, youll run out of them, causing hunger 
 and diseases, and end in a vicious circle. The camera is annoying, and people in town look like 
 they are just sliding across the surface with arms and legs going back and forth e. g. Some ABYSMAL 
 freeware games I once wasted my time on. (Sierra must be kidding, right) The graphics is the only 
 thing that meets todays standards, with fair system requirements that any gamer pc can run, even 
 with high details.
  But I take this as a warning of what can happen if you dont download a demo before you put 65 
 $ on the table for the full version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BullDog45
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are excellent and the game play is more challenging. You become so involved that time 
 passes so quickly. You also seem to have to put so much stuff into a small map area that it take 
 a lot of time , planning and strategy to advance in the campaign. For the other features in the 
 game like maps that are quick campaigns or like the sandbox type maps where it can seem like a 
 slower pace and easier type of game to allow more time to enjoy the game.
  
  Over Caesar four can be either challenging or simple it is all up too how the user is a custom 
 to a city building game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 1, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  Caesar IV picks up the gameplay of Caesar III and other such city builders like Zeus. I found many 
 welcome tweaks to the gameplay, mostly to do with the camera. You can now twist the camera to pretty 
 much any view you could possibly want. You can also zoom in far enough to imagine that your cruising 
 down the walks of the cities you build. The advisors screen has gotten a beautiful facelift, with 
 not only detailed displays for all areaas of intrest, but it looks more like an actual council 
 of advisors are standing before you. I enjoy little organic touches like that...
  
  Constructing cities in Caesar IV is still complicated, to the point where the scenarios can easily 
 take hours, maybe even a few days to finish. While there are scenarios to do, there is only a tutorial 
 campaign, and it doesn't explain some buildings or ideas, like the Forum or Exotic Goods.
  
  The graphics are absolutly stunning from afar, but if you get in close it starts to look a 
 little more rigid, but still looks great. An interesting addition is an online method of play, 
 with two flavors. The first is kind of a competitive building match, and the other takes on a more 
 Sims idea, of creating many cities to make an empire and then comparing it with others on Caesar 
 IV's website. Overall, I'd say this is a more than welcome city-building game, especially for a 
 game I still play from time to time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delengar
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  caesar is a game that you can never have enough of it . you keep playing and whoops 5 hours have 
 passed . it's amazing how the gameplay capture you every thing is releated and every building you 
 build depend on the other . As example we build a field the field needs a farm to collect the crop 
 then you build a granany to crush the grain and a warehouse to store it the a market to distribute 
 it and many building depend on the food you distribute in an amazing connections till the degree 
 that when there is something missing in the middle you take time to discover it .
  It give you a space to design the city in your way . you feel like doing an arcitecture job with 
 the beauty touch you may add .
  but the garphics of the games compared to other strategy games is poor but it is overwhlemed by 
 the capturing games play . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 2, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  Caesar IV had my attention because of the developer, Tilted Mill. Being another city-building game 
 from the same team who created Immortal Cities: Children of the Nile, I couldn't wait to get my 
 hands on it.
  
  Like other games of the genre, Caesar IV is all about building and maintaining a thriving city 
 while achieving certain goals in the process.
  
  The Kingdom Campaign is aimed at new players, and the first stages are simple tutorials about the 
 basics of building a functional city. This campaign spans through five stages of a career type 
 of gameplay and it's great to learn the interface and discover what makes a city work and how.
 
  
  And while the interface may seem complicated at first glance, you will find it intuitive. The icons 
 are self-explanatory and there are mouse-over messages that give you more info on what each button 
 does. If that isn't enough, you can get plenty of help by meeting with your advisors, who show 
 you all kinds of statistics for labor, finances, trading, population, etc.
  
  Aside from the Kingdom Campaign there is another one available from the start. The Republic Campaign 
 is aimed at more experienced players, and completing it gives you access to a third one, the Empire 
 Campaign.
  
  In each stage you begin with an empty map with only a few roads. Look around and find your resources 
 so you can plan ahead. You will soon discover that placement is very important, especially in terms 
 of desirability of an area, so you don't want your upper class residences next to the farms and 
 factories.
  
  You need to start small, because your city's prosperity will depend on its citizens and the social 
 classes they belong to. Social status is very important in the game, since each class has distinct 
 jobs and functions. Plebs will be the main working force, providing food and basic goods such as 
 wood and clay, as well as certain services such as engineers (they maintain your buildings) and 
 prefects (the Roman firefighters and police) . Next there are the Equities, which are the middle-class 
 citizens. They work in healthcare, education, religion and entertainment, but they are also your 
 tax collectors, and you really want those! They require more commodities than Plebs, for example 
 fountain water and more diverse food and goods.
  
  The Patricians are at the top of the social pyramid and although they don't work, their needs ensure 
 that the rest keep working and they pay taxes unlike the Plebs and Equities.
  
  You can't just pause the game and start building everything right away though. You must attract 
 the lower classes first, so a few insulae and a well will provide them with a decent place to live. 
 But you have to create jobs, so a few resource gathering outposts, factories and farms should keep 
 them busy.
  
  As your city evolves and with it the needs of your citizens, you must create living spaces for 
 the upper classes by providing domus and villas as well as luxury markets, reservoirs, aqueducts 
 and fountains, bath houses, clinics, theatres and so on. If people are unhappy, they will leave.
 
  
  I found the greatest challenge to fulfill everyone's needs resided in the size of the maps for 
 each stage. Many times I would have to restart just because I couldn't find enough space for everything 
 or because my planning wasn't good enough to keep everyone happy (read: no room for gardens to 
 improve desirability) . It's like trying to cram a pile of clothes into a messy closet. You can't 
 do it without organizing first, and although a bit frustrating, it's challenging enough to be rewarding 
 at the end.
  
  Also, not being able to just move buildings is a bit annoying, since I had to delete them and build 
 them again someplace else, which turns out to be a big money loss when remodeling a city's landscape. 
 And I'm never happy with my city's landscape, since I constantly think this would look better if... 
 
  
  Balancing the three social classes can be tough, especially since the lower ones can evolve into 
 higher classes. It's a really good concept and there are so many factors involved into keeping 
 them all happy that at times you might find them too picky.
  
  For example, when you start taking into account what the Patricians need, you will notice that 
 you have to do a lot more than just build things. Sometimes you will have to establish trade routes 
 to get the exotic goods they require and that generally means you will need to produce something 
 to trade as well.
  
  Trade is a very important part of the game, since it's how you gain favor with Rome. As it turns 
 out, the citizens of Rome sometimes lack a certain product and they will demand you send a certain 
 type of goods. If you fail to send the orders within the time limit, your favor will decrease. 
 You can also send a gift to Rome by using your own salary (as a Governor, you earn a small salary) 
 and earn a little favor in return. Favor is many times a requirement to complete a scenario, so 
 you have to pay particular attention to the orders, the time you have left to complete them and 
 if your economy can support those orders.
  
  I still can't grasp the trading concept very well. I had pottery orders from Rome, and although 
 I had plenty of workers gathering clay and lots of it stored in the warehouse there wasn't enough 
 pottery coming out of my factories quick enough to fulfill the order in time. I wish there was 
 a way to speed up manufacturing by allowing more workers to work in factories.
  
  The economy in the game needs a lot of micromanagement, so you have to keep an eye out on factories, 
 markets and especially warehouses to see how you are doing.
  
  Caesar IV also has a small military component, but don't expect too much of it since this is a 
 city builder after all. In some cities you will have to deal with hostile neighbors, so recruiting 
 legions is a must. You can also have city walls, but again, the landscape restrictions get in the 
 way of building them unless you are willing to destroy parts of your city to build a piece of the 
 wall.
  
  What I really enjoyed was to see how buildings evolve and how each class behaves on a regular day. 
 You see Plebs heading out to the fields and harvesting, Equities getting water from fountains, 
 Patricians going to the theaters. In some cases you can see what goes on inside the buildings, 
 like an actor practicing at the school or people relaxing in the bath house. The cities look very 
 much alive with its busy streets, boats coming and going, people carrying their belongings when 
 migrating. Aside from Campaigns, you have single scenarios to complete, a scenario editor, and 
 there are even a series of online challenges where you compete with players around the world for 
 the best score, most money, most population and so on. You can even download user made scenarios!
 
  
  In the visual department, Caesar IV is very pleasant. The dynamic lighting effects for the day/night 
 cycles are great, depicting early morning bright sun, to reddish sunsets, to dark nights. The water 
 and its reflections look great, and looking at the buildings in the closest view is a delight, 
 since you can see different instances of the same type of house and how similar yet different their 
 elements can be (pillars, windows, balconies, arches) . The only complaint I have about the graphic 
 aspect is the character models, they seem a bit blocky. I would also have liked more control over 
 the camera. As for the sound, there are tons of lines that your citizens will utter when you click 
 on them. And the musical score is really good, blending in with the game and adding to the atmosphere.
 
  
  Caesar IV is one of those games I like to get lost in. The kind you play and what seems just a 
 little later you look at the clock and realize hours have gone by.
  
  I came, I saw, I loved it. Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at:
  
 http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=caesar4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGriffin
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 1, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  Well start on with the view: Incredible. The 3-d building are amazing, and you zoom in and build 
 up virtually every building in the game. The citizens react
  not only on the streets (they with cover their heads and move faster when it rains) If its dark, 
 building lights go on. And yes, it can snow. Some you'll enjoy every time. Want to see whats going 
 on in the in all the business and entertainment venues? Zoom in and take a look.
  
  The Requirements : It seems a lot of people have had crashes? Not a single burp here. While you 
 can run the game with 512 meg, like i have, believe me 1 gig is highly recommended. As for video 
 cards? Always go for what your budget allows. Geoforce 6800 series or better is recommended.
  in the end : READ THE REQUIREMENTS.
  
  The Engine : Smooth as silk. With far larger cities, 
 rotating may get a little boggy, but as the previous versions there is a mini mad to help. You 
 can hide the panel and map for a more fuller screen mode.
  The Load times: Are yes long ( no more than 2 minutes i think) With better memory this decreases.
 
  
  Online: They couldn't have done it better, for a city builder. You'll have 2 options,
  Challenge or Empire. In challenge mode you build up Rome (the Empire, not the city) . Whoever has 
 the best ratings (largest, more cash, etc) , gain medals (and bragging rights) .
  In Empire you also build Rome, buy share your Empire online for others to see.
  
  Finals verdict: 
 Buy the game. You will spent hours and hours with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Although the game looks very nice and is usually fun the stability issues kill the game.
  
  This is a game any fan of city builders can enjoy as long as they aren't upset with the abrupt 
 crashes in the game. Its very nicely developed as far as everything else goes though. The graphics 
 are nice and add a lot of flavor to the many regions you play in and make the Roman architecture 
 look great.
  
  Getting everything on track in your city can be very frustrating and discouraging as you can quickly 
 run out of money sometimes due to the pace the game wants you to go at.
  
  And without further delay the crashing issue. It usually happens when attempting to open trade 
 with another city which can ususally be solved by making sure you have a population when you open 
 the trade agreement but it still occurs when you least expect it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddcromax
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 15, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  Caesar 4 is getting a reputation for being riddled with problems. This is unfortunate, as the game 
 itself is a fine effort by developers Tilted Mill. They have achieved an admirable balance between 
 maintaining elements of the earlier Caesar games, and providing something new. The improvements 
 are certainly the graphics of the game, and also the distribution system. Where in C3 you had to 
 make absolutely certain walkers did not have options of which way they could go, this no longer 
 matters. Still, you do need to build in a certain way if you wish for success.
  
  Like many others, I had crashes when first installing the new game. The Tilted Mill tech forum 
 were very helpful, turned out I needed to install a patch for my Athlon dual core CPU, and get 
 all the Windows updates. You need up to date drivers and a goodly amount of free space on your 
 hard drive if you want this game to run well. That's the way it is, like I said its a pity because 
 it will cost this game some sales.
  
  This game, while enjoyable, lacks the depth of its predecessor C3. While many played the game, 
 few played it really well, due to its unravelling complexity. The new game seems to have deliberately 
 avoided this sort of a situation, and it should be easy for someone familiar with this kind of 
 game to play at a high level fairly quickly.
  
  The music in this new game, by Keith Zizza, is worth the price of ammission alone. Here is a major 
 improvement from C3, which had quite good music itself.
  
  There is a map editor included, but it is quite difficult to use, prone to crashing, and doesn't 
 appear to have any help file incorporated. It is to be hoped for the longevity of the game that 
 this is addressed. It will not have been lost on Tilted Mill/Sierra that although C3 was made some 
 eight years ago, it is still being played competitively, due wholly to the ability of players to 
 produce good custome-made scenarios.
  
  Caesar 4 is a great game. You can build truly stunning cities with it, more so than any other citybuilder. 
 It's a pity this means purchasers may need to do a little bit of system tidying up to get it to 
 work properly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayjoh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 14, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  Never having played Caesar III leaves me somewhat lost when it comes to compare this fourth outing 
 into the ancient Roman empire. I played Caesar II quite a bit back in the mid 90's, and as far 
 as I recall I found it rather enjoyable - not to mention time-consuming. Caesar IV fits pretty 
 well into the legacy, that is the Caesar-series. It's a city-builder with heavy emphasis on economics 
 and general micromanagement. Gameplay: The game is in full 3D andyou choose from which perspective 
 you want to view your city from. I found that viewing from directly above is most efficient when 
 building. You place housing, temples, markets and all sorts of different buildings, with the ultimate 
 goal of creating a city where your citizens are content. This means, that you don't just slab the 
 buildings down wherever you want. You'll need to give some thought to where you place buildings 
 in order to achieve maximum happiness. For example: You'll need to make sure that housing always 
 has access to some kind of market, water , religion and so on. Another aspect if the game is it's 
 quite intricate economic system. Before you've built a fraction of your city, you will be managing 
 the imports and exports, wages and other financial matters to make sure that you don't run out 
 of money and that everyone gets paid.
  
  You'll also be doing battle with barbarian invaders, although this must be the worst aspect of 
 the game, since the actual fighting is handled as clumsily as a pimpled teenager handles his self-esteem. 
 You are basically warned that barbarians are trying to attack you, then you send out a cohort who 
 (if they outnumber the invaders) deal with them. The game really didn't need this feature, as it's 
 really a waste of time. My take on it is: Tilted Mill wanted some cool military buildings blend 
 into the economics of your town. From a historical point of view, it's a good idea, but it's just 
 so badly implemented, that it feels really really contrieved. Graphics: As stated earlier, the 
 graphics are in full 3D. This makes the game really great looking, especially when you take a panorama 
 look at your bustling roman city. The downside is of course the heavy system requirements. I have 
 a computer which definately rises well above the minimum requirements, yet, as soon as my city 
 starts to grow the game really starts slowing down when taking a panorama look or using one of 
 the great help-overlays. A little more optimization would have done wonders here, as the game tends 
 to hog a lot of resources, after a couple of hours. Beside these points, the game is really great 
 looking. Your city looks fantastic at dusk and dawn!
  
  Critique:
  1. Slaves, or lack thereof. Why aren't there any slaves? Slaves were the foundation of the economy 
 of the roman empire. They played such a vital part in the history and unravelling of Rome. Many 
 historians agree that if it had not been for the slaves, Rome would have evolved into an industrial 
 age, not unlike what we saw in the 19th century. They already knew about the steam-engine, but 
 they saw no use for it because they had... yes, slaves! If the romans had embraced the newer technology, 
 Rome might have lasted a great deal longer. Enough of all the what if...? , but seriously, the 
 lack of slaves is a definite flaw in a game that sells itself not only from a gameplay point of 
 view, but also a historic. 2. The load-times. Man, these are so long, it aches! There is nothing 
 worse than having to wait a minute or two for a game to load.
  
  3. Maps. The gameplay maps are all really small. I can appreciate that Tilted Mill didn't want 
 the game to lag too much because of sheer size, but I would like some more space if I'm to build 
 a city with a million citizens (Djebu, anyone?) .
  
  Final thoughts: Caesar IV is a really great game, if you are into building cities and managing 
 them tightly. If not, this is definately not your cup of tea. There has also been a lot of talks 
 about bugs, I have yet to experience any. The only thing that has happened so far, is that the 
 game crashed back to windows after playing from five hours, which I suspect having something to 
 do with memory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hollaman123
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  The game is good, but there have been so many terrible rome city building games this year, and 
 this is simply another one. Rome building games could be awesome, but somehow they are never put 
 up to what they should be.
  
  The game has nice graphics, and music to keep you going, good sound effects, detail, and more. 
 But what i find in most games when they make a Rome city Building game is THAT YOU ARE NEVER BUILDING 
 ROME!. I dont understand that, you are always making things around rome, its never the actual thing. 
 Also all the buildings are always exactly the same, and get booorrring to look at every mission. 
 Also nothing is even of actualy scale, the coliseum is pathetically small, its the size of maybe 
 5 small huts combined, i find this in almost every rome game, idk y anything isnt of actualy scale, 
 everything is so much smaller.
  
  Besides that, it is fun watching the people go about their daily lives, but all they do is complain 
 the whole time, and the buildings always just seem to fall apart. I mean yes this is startegic, 
 but it announces every second of something that happens badly, it gets annoying. Plus there is 
 NEVER enough room to build ANYTHING, you constantly run out of room, i find it impossible to actually 
 even food and houses and entertainment out, make the maps bigger jeese.
  
  Over all, Caesar 4 aint what it lived up to be, caesar 3 was so much better than this. I thought 
 this game was a disgrace to the Caesar franchise. But if you really like roman games this one is 
 for you . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jschenk
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 12, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  This game is a pretty solid sequel. All of the aspects of the previous game are there. It looks 
 like they spent a lot of time on graphics, which is nice, I guess. I generally find myself only 
 using one angle and zoomed all the way out. I don't zoom in to see all the neat detailing very 
 often, so to me, this is sort of a waste. It just slows down my machine, and makes the game more 
 buggy. Which leads me to my main point. This game is a crash fest. Even after releasing a patch 
 the day after the release of the game, the game is just about unplayable. From what I've read, 
 its mostly a video card issue.
  
  All that high end graphic stuff that I never see is crashing my computer. Gee. Remember when games 
 were good because they had good gameplay and not good anti-aliasing, vert-sinc, and other crap 
 that I don't understand but ruins the game?
  
  Ohh yeah, the sound effects are uninformative and distracting. Constant crowd sounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jathyr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 11, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  Economy is a bit wonky and requires constant management to keep things going; building restrictions 
 for walls and other defenses can be painful; 
  
  The strength of a city builder is the immersiveness of its gameplay -- the more intricate the game, 
 the more fulfilling. It should be congratulated for its economy which requires a great deal of 
 management of the supply chain to create success. It does that extremely well and makes wonderful 
 experiences for a city builder. Instead of memorizing map layouts that work with whatever system 
 programmers wanted, this is more thoughtful, realistic, and strategic. The game does include restrictions 
 for building. How realistic would an ancient Roman city builder be if they allowed building techniques 
 that weren't possible? My guess is they didn't actually play it much or they expected SimCity style 
 building and didn't go much further. Either way the review is poor and needs to be changed.
  
  The building techniques are realistic, the game is fun, the soundtrack is good, voiceovers 
 are both believable and intuitive to gameplay (you can hear suggestions from citizens) , and the 
 tutorial/game help is very instructive. Endless hours are in this game of fun as I'm already 30 
 in and have enjoyed it. The negatives include poor graphics in the extreme micro level, slower 
 load times, and a the mouse can be difficult to master the movements of building placement. Other 
 than that it's great.
  
  Overall, forget gamespot and get this game if you like builders -- you'll be impressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HitMan52
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  The wait for C4 has been about 8-years since C3. However it would have been benifical if Tilted 
 Mill had waited another 6-months to release this moderately buggy product. While this reviewer 
 has found the gameplay enjoyable and engrossing, the game is anything but bug free. Forum complaints 
 range from I cannot load the game to significant mouse lag. While this reviewer was able to fix 
 his mouse lag and a strange whiteout effect with some driver downloads for my mouse other gamers 
 have not been so lucky. The minimum specs for this game are just that very minimum. While my rig 
 exceeds the minimum specs by a modest level it appears that at least a gig of ram and a fairly 
 robust video card is needed to enjoy the game at its higher graphics settings. Promises that Tilted 
 Mill is investigating the reported problems but it appears that a patch will not be available very 
 quickly since the problems reported thus far cannot be duplicated by Tilted Mill. Check out the 
 games forum site for more detailed information about the current problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doc2daMAX
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game since I first got it, as I'm a great believer with the don't knock 
 it until you try it policy. Before I begin, I must say that I've also been playing 'Company of 
 Heroes' just before I got this game, and I was impressed by the way everything looked so real even 
 when you zoomed in on the people. Now, I've been waiting for Caesar IV for a long time, and I see 
 all of these 'beautiful' pictures of the city, but I was NOT impressed with the graphics engine 
 of the game really. Sure it runs smooth for the most part, but after waiting this long for a game 
 of this magnitude, I was surprised that Sierra had not thought outside the box with their ideas, 
 and with their graphics. If you read any of my other reviews, you'll see that I'm a fair judge 
 with reviews, and even sometimes I may give a game a higher score just because they had an excellent 
 idea with replayability value. Sadly, Caesar IV does not. Here's my beef with Caesar IV. As already 
 stated, I was not impressed with the graphics at all. Here's why: The year is 2006. Most people 
 have decent computers now, and can handle this game, and if not, games now days are VERY leanient 
 with being able to turn down graphics on the settings options. I was expecting a VERY realistic-looking 
 game, but when you actually play the game, you have basic 'blobs' for people, and the buildings 
 do look sort of cartoonish. My question is WHY?! The same company that makes FEAR has great technology 
 and skill... so I can't understand WHY everything looks like a cartoon, and doesn't have a real 
 feel at all. Minus the water and rocks, even the trees and landscape doesn't have a real feel to 
 it. I was also wondering why you can't terriform the terrain; the Romans did it all the time in 
 the capital city... why can't we? So, for me, graphics is a big deal. If you can get a game like 
 'Company of Heroes' to look that good with a map that size... why in the WORLD can't we see a realistic 
 looking city-builder like that? It's 2006 people! LOL So, let's think positive: What did I like 
 about the game? I liked the structural feel of the game, with the different classifications of 
 citizens. Although I DO have a beef with that too (sorry) . In CivCity, citizens have the OPTION 
 to do well and expand into better environments... and you could follow the citizen's progress (they 
 would actually move to a different area of your city too) ... I liked that. But I DO like how Caesar 
 IV separates it in such a way that these three class types have a specific strategical role in 
 how your city functions with labour and taxation. I also liked the camera movements. I had to invert 
 them, but they were smooth, and worked well in the game. What I'm a HUGE fan of in the Caesar series 
 is this: Buildings around housing have a positive or negative effect on the desireability of the 
 land. This is a good feature because this is how people really think in real life, and it really 
 WOULD effect how a house would or would not expand. The military feature is also disappointing, 
 and another area where (I'm sorry but) I have to say, It's 2006 people! Like before, if they have 
 the technology to make FEAR, they can make units look and feel better and more realistic. Battles, 
 I'm sorry to say, seem to have NO strategy involved at all... which is not like real life... and 
 actually WOULD effect the city in real life.. both financially, and physically. For example, if 
 persay, I have been good at using my terrain to defend, shouldn't that give me an upper hand? NOPE.. 
 not really. It's just this: units are given a hit point system, and they're very similar to each 
 other, so that you have to have equal forces to theirs to quash them... BOOO. Business and raw 
 materials also do NOT have a realistic feel to them. Clay pits and mines are little squares and 
 are easy-to-find eye sores that somehow are already dug out for you and ready to go. This disappoints 
 me because the builder has no choice where to build a clay pit, and it looks rediculous to have 
 a newly-starting city with a clay pit already dug. Ok.. 'nough said. If you like a game from 2003, 
 this is for you, and you'll have fun with it.. as it's built around fun, and obviously not for 
 looks or realsim. I like to design my city, but I don't think it does it's job to really get you 
 INTO the Roman era. They crashed and burned on graphics, and they crashed and burned on realism. 
 I do think that the 'pre-order video' does though... and in my opinion, it was worth my money, 
 just because of that movie LOL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluwave
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  Caesar II and Ultima 7: Blackgate were the games that really got me excited and into PC gaming. 
 I have waiting for a long time for the next game in the Caesar series and while this one has its 
 issues... I think it really shines as a step forward in the historical city simulation games. While 
 most people cry here about having classes for the different housing, this is actually a more accurate 
 and true way of laying down a city plan. As far as I know, houses were built especially for a certain 
 class (just like they are today) . So this requires more thought and strategy when it comes to designing 
 a city.
  
  As far as the game being a system hog, it doesn't really effect me that much, except for when I 
 have a full city up and running. I haven't experienced any crashes yet (knock on wood) , so technically 
 I find this game sound. The only complaints I have, is that I wish the campaign was a little more 
 polished and that the music was a little more roman-esque. I highly recommend this game for anyone 
 who enjoys city style simulation/strategy games and roman history! Its not often games like this 
 come out *cough* except for in the past couple months *cough* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightfang
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 8, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Having played all of the city builders from Impressions over the years, I was anxious to get my 
 hands on this game. I played the demo when it was released, and tried to convince myself it was 
 possibly not a finished representation of the final game.
  
  Man, was I wrong.
  
  On the surface, Caesar IV definately looks like it has what it takes to be a good game. I mean, 
 it is a city builder from the same guys who brought us the old ones! But, once the game is installed 
 and running, the ugly truth comes out. The graphics, while not bad, and definately not a major 
 focus for a game like this, are painful to look at. Even on the highest settings there was not 
 a major difference in appearance, and to make it worse, it bogged my machine down like nobody's 
 business. The people on the streets are wooden and lifeless, and you cannot even easily see what 
 person is what.
  
  The gameplay is just plain boring. Sure, you can build away at stuff and toss down all manner of 
 cool looking buildings, but it feels like it is all just a race to get some villas up so you can 
 finally collect decent taxes, since you cannot get taxes from the pleb anymore, nor from the equites. 
 To make it worse, you have to remember which structures need which type of worker, and before you 
 know it, you are low on two types of laborers! It was hard enough keeping up with employment rates 
 with one worker class!
  
  Overall, C4 looks like it could have been a very fun game, but the boring gameplay and uninspired 
 graphics make it tedious to watch and play. If you are a huge fan of the city builder genre this 
 may be a great game for you, but I encourage you to try the demo before you drop the cash. The 
 demo is an exact model of the final product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyisgreat
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 8, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Caesar IV captures the class system of the Roman Empire ably. At the bottom are the plebs, who 
 toil in the fields and factories and have only basic needs, such as food and clothing. Next up 
 are the equites, or the middle class, who live in fancier structures and serve as the teachers, 
 tax collectors, and doctors of the Empire. As such, they get paid more and have basic and luxury 
 wants, such as furniture and wine. Finally, there are the nobles that live on huge estates. The 
 nobles don't work for a living, and they require basic, luxury, and exotic goods to stay happy, 
 but at least you can tax them to generate a fair chunk of your revenue. Any functional city needs 
 to have a mix of all three classes, which makes striking the balance challenging. You need nobles 
 because they're the only ones who can really be taxed, but to get nobles, you need to build a vast 
 infrastructure to support them. For instance, you must trade to get exotic goods that the nobles 
 require, and that means creating an export economy to generate something you can trade.
  
  The trade aspect is one of the ways in Caesar IV that your city can tie into the Roman world as 
 a whole. Instead of merely being an isolated satellite, you can open up trade ties with other cities. 
 Ships will come in to pick up and deliver goods, which can thus fuel your economic growth. On a 
 more pressing note, Rome will often make demands of you to deliver food, goods, or money. Fail 
 to keep up with Rome's demands, and your imperial rating will plummet, making it harder to win 
 certain scenarios, as well as putting you in danger of being replaced by Rome for your incompetence. 
 In that case, you can try placating the Senate with gifts. Of course, the easier method is simply 
 to keep up with Rome's demands, and that means building a strong economy.
  
  Still, the economy can be finicky to manage, as bottlenecks can erupt in several places. Having 
 no spare warehouse space often means that products sit in the factories, waiting to be distributed, 
 and it's almost impossible to unload unwanted goods to make room, short of razing the warehouse 
 and building a new one. This can be avoided with a lot of micromanagement of the economy, as you 
 can tell warehouses to only stock so much of certain goods, but there ought to be a simpler way 
 of dealing with this, as well, like dumping products into someone else's hands.
  
  Then there's the entire concept of building legions and defenses and defending the city from the 
 occasional barbarian horde. Simply put, constructing walls around your city is a pain thanks to 
 the strict building restrictions that often have you tear down and rebuild parts of your city to 
 squeeze in walls. With that said, it's a bit easier to simply build a fort and recruit a legion 
 to kill the pesky barbarians whenever they appear.
  
  Caesar IV also manages to incorporate an online element into a traditionally single-player genre. 
 You won't be building cities alongside other players in a cooperative game, but Caesar IV does 
 let you challenge players in a couple of ways. Caesar's Challenge is for the veteran players who 
 want to determine who the best is. These are basically a series of challenges that require you 
 to create a city to generate the most money, highest scoring city, and so on. Your performance 
 on each scenario is ranked, with the top performer getting all the glory. If you're looking for 
 a less competitive challenge, the persistent online Empire allows you to build and upload cities. 
 The more cities that you build, the greater your overall Empire. You can then compare your cities 
 to those of other players on the official Caesar IV site. Visually, Caesar IV has a solid look 
 to it, though the graphics border a bit more on workmanlike than on sheer beauty. Still, from a 
 distance, it's easy to appreciate the sense of having a virtual city come to life on your screen. 
 There are some good-looking lighting and weather effects, as well as reflective water, though dynamic 
 shadows can cripple the overall performance. Disabling shadows means the graphics lose a bit of 
 their luster, but the game doesn't chug whenever you shift the camera angle. However, two bigger 
 issues are the lengthy long load times and the stability problems, as the game froze up on us quite 
 a bit, making the aforementioned load times even more tedious. There's a musical score that blends 
 in nicely in the background during the many hours of gameplay, and you do get verbal feedback to 
 how you're doing whenever you click on a citizen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wendiny
Rating: 6.1
Date: Oct 5, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  Total letdown!! I'm expecting the same control/game play with the previous series. I'm already 
 disappointed with CivCity: Rome, yet, Caesar IV is as bad. Also, the animation should be much better.
 
  
  Compared to Caesar 3, the controls of Caesar 4 is not good, lousy. The graphic is much better indeed, 
 (duh, it's 8 years of development.. ha ha..) but I still prefer Caesar III's game play, in fact, 
 much better. (Just that it's year 1998 level of graphic) For example: you can see the houses grow 
 instead of putting it one by one, etc.. Game controls is also unsatisfying. I guess i'm expecting 
 too much.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cinister7
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 3, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  In my humble opinion Caesar IV was not as terrific as I had expected it to be. I have played all 
 most all civilization building games, including Caesar III. I will admit that having played Caesar 
 III, it has made playing this game easier but possibly less enjoyable. I liked the fact that in 
 Caesar III you were able to plot a chunk of land for housing and watch them evolve from meager 
 huts to grand villas, but alas in Caesar IV there are fewer civilization evaluations. And the houses 
 which they do give you are grand as they are, not a small hut like in Caesar III. But I must say 
 that by placing the population into three separate categories was good for a change and for historical 
 accuracy. Apart from the building evolution stages, I found that in general just placing buildings 
 down could be quite troubling. The sensitivity of the mouse can be at times troubling, and estimating 
 how much room you would need for structures can be a frustrating task. In Caesar III I could make 
 a large colony of houses in less then a minute, while now it takes time just to make sure that 
 they are in the right position. This could be due to the fact that most buildings are extremely 
 large. I found that the military aspect of Caesar IV was less then perfect, of course we don't 
 expect it to be seeing as this is a city builder, but just handling the cohorts can be annoying, 
 the enemy A. I. and that of your soldiers is slow and unresponsive. There are really no tactics 
 involved in combat, the winner is determined by who has more numbers, what type of troop they are 
 and how much training they have.
  
  Apart from the gameplay the graphics that his game requires are insane. I am currently running 
 this game right in the middle of best performance and best graphics, without antianalizing enabled. 
 And I am still having a hard time maneuvering the mouse and camera. It will lag just scrolling 
 around the map. Since I have a 2.4 GHz proc with 1gig ram and geforce 6600 GT with 256mb, I thought 
 that just running the game on medium would be ok. I was wrong.
  
  After all the sledging of the game, it has its good points too, you will enjoy building a great 
 city and watching your tiny Samaritans going to their day to day activates, buying food, working 
 ect. Establishing a successful city can be a big challenge. Having to establish trade routes so 
 you can import goods to create more goods from which you have to establish another trade route 
 so that you can export your created goods just to balance your financials. The advisors in the 
 game are quite helpful, they will sometimes give you advice on what you need done, if youre lacking 
 plebeians or in debt. Caesar IV isn't without its funny quirks. I found it strange but funny when 
 one of my citizens was running while on fire but no one seemed to care, they just walked right 
 by him normally. A building was burning brightly on fire but no one seemed to mind. I guess overall 
 it was still fund to play the fourth of the Caesar games. If you like building genres I would recommend 
 buying this, but I wouldn't pay more then $49.99 for this game. I hope my review was insightful 
 if not confusing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CplDave
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  They've kept the feel of the old Caesar games while adding in 3-D graphics. I've played the first 
 4 economic scenarios and so far they are challenging but not impossible. As always, it's a struggle 
 to get the city up and running but once the money-making industries are going it's not difficult 
 to keep the city finances in the black.
  
  Some of the difficulties others have noted I also agree with, such as camera control and placing 
 of buildings. If you plan to build a lot, you can pause the game to take the pressure off and it's 
 easier to concentrate on placing buildings. Still, it can be frustrating, especially if you need 
 to rotate 45 degrees and get it faced the right way.
  
  The major gameplay issue I've seen is the Prosperity rating is difficult to raise. I think it's 
 the average level of all the housing, but on the Ratings screen it says it's the average level 
 of the villas (which i believe is an error) . The problem is, these villas take a lot of services, 
 as you would expect, but I think the area each service affects is way too small. To raise them 
 to a high level, villas need 3 kinds of entertainment, 4 kinds of health buildings, education, 
 religion, etc., and all these buildings take up street space. Some of them are fairly large. By 
 the time you place these things, there's little room left for the villas themselves, and the service 
 at the far end is too far away. The one that gets me is the Forum, which provides Justice. Now, 
 most Roman towns only had one in the center, so you'd think the Forum would have a very large coverage 
 area. But no, it extends to about as far as you can throw a rusty statue of Nero's horse. Line 
 up 4 villas, and the last one gets no Justice. Same goes for entertainment facilities like theaters. 
 So how does this affect Prosperity? All these services have to be built to get the villas to raise 
 their level in order to raise prosperity, but then you have to build more edile housing to man 
 these services, which lowers prosperity. Once I nudged the Prosperity within 3 points of the goal, 
 and then deleted all the Pleb housing. I immediately won. If that's what it takes to win, to me 
 that's BS.
  
  Still, I like this game a lot and I'm sure it will give me many hours of playing. Hopefully they 
 will think about more realistic building ranges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heffer_moose
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  the goods:
  -has a lot of variety to city management.
  -easy to follow beginners tutorial
  -just as addictive as previous caesar games
  -excellent 
 building designs
  -high replay value
  
  the bads:
  -awful camera controls
  -menu interface becomes annoying and in the way at times
  -a little buggy
  -small maps (land 
 feels clustered)
  -huge learning curve for someone who's never played str city builders
  -buildings are difficult to place sometimes
  
  noticeable changes from C3:
  -3d engine
 
  -3 kinds of houses which all advance differently
  -3 different types of citizens with dif social status
  -more options in the council
  -overall 
 game is more difficult
  
  other thots:
  -remember for a game like this the larger, more advanced a city u build, the more computer power 
 you will need to run at a playable framerate. game not recommended for computers with less than 
 64mb of video memory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyking9754
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Purchased the game this afternoon at Best But. I've played up to the third level of one of the 
 scenerios. I've enjoyed every minute of it. The graphics are great. I think some improvement could 
 be made in the screen controls, particularly the screen rotation. Current method seems a little 
 awkward. The mouse wheel zoom seems to work well but I think it could be tweaked a little to allow 
 greater zooming distances. i really like the auto save feature built into the game. If the game 
 supports auto update for patching I couldn't find it anywhere in the interface. i would like to 
 see the auto update feature added. I know Sierra used to have the auto updating feature for almost 
 all of their games. I highly recommend this game to all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royalemb
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 1, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is just excellent. when you first see the main-manu of the game, it is simple yet the 
 background looks like kinda old school, (actually the game in general is kinda looks old school 
 which makes this game interesting.) it somewhat reminds me of the Caesar III.
  When you go into the game as scenario, you can choose 2 missions. i think it was vary smart thinking 
 when they made that. it makes many outcoms and variety.
  Actual game playing needs some advanced thinking even if it is just a start. for example, i had 
 hard time defining tax, resource, city planning, and service placement. most of the games that 
 is historic-based don't require much thinking, but i think this game needs more thinking which 
 makes things interesting. Con was that mouse control and graphic. although you get used to it, 
 but it is still not in detail, and it is crappy. i think gamespy got right about poor animation 
 because it doesn't show much animation as Civcity Rome, but it is still fair enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fuhrer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 1, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  Caesar IV brings a few new features to the table. Its a big improvement from its predecessors, 
 the biggest being the 3D engine. The graphics are quite nice, maybe even a little bit too realistic; 
 the old 2D engine for the Caesar series and all the other city building from Sierra had a really 
 colorful and fun look to it. I wish they had taken some of that and put it in their 3D engine. 
 The game play is fun and it makes much more sense then the previous games especially the upgrading 
 of residential buildings. If resources are available the people use them. Another good thing is 
 that the houses don't degrade because of not having a good for 5 seconds like before. That was 
 the biggest problem in all the city building series.
  
  The sound is as good as it can get for this kind of game so no complaints there.
  
  Overall 
 this game is really worth getting and the price tag of under $40 is really nice as well. Out of 
 the entire city building games that came out this year this definitely is the best one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dserafic
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Tilted Mill does a good job in keeping with the same feel of previous Caesar's and revamping it 
 to the point where it still feels new... but that's about it. I'm a big Caesar fan but I was a little 
 disappointed in this release. For one, the game speed is quite slow and I'm running a 3.4GHz proc 
 with a nVidia 256MB video card on medium settings - THAT SHOULDN'T HAPPEN! TM needs to do something 
 quick to address that issue.
  
  Also, the map interface is clumsy. Especially when you're trying to rotate views, yikes - a few 
 twists and turns and you're ready to barf. Even scrolling to the edge of the map has its restrictions. 
 For instance, when you're building on the edge of the map, you're restricted from scrolling further 
 to get the edge on the middle of your screen, which makes it really annoying when you're trying 
 to fit a pump house on the bottom-right portion of the monitor and you can't see exactly where 
 the water is at.
  
  The gameplay was surprisingly difficult. If you're new to the Caesar series, you'll have a tough 
 time meeting your goals, even on EASY! On a lighter note, Caesar 4 still has that addictive gameplay 
 caused by wanting to design a city that flourishes. It's cool to watch the evolution of buildings. 
 Structures such as insulae, markets and religious structures grow in evolution as your city becomes 
 prosperous (but is can also work the other way around) .
  
  Your advisors are really helpful as well, or at least the interface, because they give detailed 
 information of what your city may be lacking.
  
  As far as military battles, they're cute...
  
  If you're a Caesar fan, you can't help but to 
 buy it. The game still holds decent value and the $39.99 retail price ain't that bad. The price 
 will probably drop another $10 in 6 months or so. New fans should buy it then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebeasle
Rating: 4.3
Date: Sep 30, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I was excited to play this game, but the bugs and crashes make it unbearable. I have a top of the 
 line Dell system that less than 3 months old and I get all kinds of crashes. Check out the forums 
 before you buy. Everone is having problems. If you have to play this game, at least wait a few 
 months until they can get the game up to release quality. Right now, it is terrible and you won't 
 even be able to play 10 minutes without crashing. When you can play the game, the graphics and 
 sound are pretty good. I'm looking forward to playing this game someday when I don't crash to desktop 
 every five minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plutoman
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  There is a bit of a learning curve to this game though I have to admit I did not play the previous 
 titles in this series so maybe there would not have been had I played those. However after I figured 
 out how everything worked and learned the language of the game, I was well on my way. I really 
 enjot the city building and being able to click on individual citizens and their homes to let you 
 know how you're doing. Caesar himself is little bit demanding sometimes when he makes orders and 
 requests. Make sure you save as you build your city before he makes his requests because if you 
 can't meet them your cooked by his massive army. My biggest annoyance in the game is the military 
 are too slow in responding to invaders. I really like this game and will be playing for a while. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
